DRN-4233751
The complaint
Miss H complains that Nationwide Building Society wrongly closed her account.
What happened
Miss H says she received a text from Nationwide saying her account was to be closed in one 
week. And, as she hadnt received any other correspondence, she thought the text was a 
scam and deleted it. She later found out her account had been closed. She complained to 
Nationwide about the closure of the account and the distress and inconvenience this caused.
 
Nationwide said that in addition to the text, a letter providing two months notice of closure 
and an email reminder was sent to Miss H. But ultimately it accepted it had wrongly closed 
Miss Hs account. It said its system had identified that the account was being used for 
business purposes  which wasnt the case. It acknowledged the distress and inconvenience 
caused, apologised, and paid Miss H £250 compensation.
Miss H didnt accept this outcome and referred the matter to this service as she didnt think 
£250 fully recognised the distress and inconvenience caused. One of our investigators 
looked into Miss Hs complaint. But she didnt think Nationwide needed to take any further 
action. She thought £250 was fair compensation. Miss H didnt agree, and she asked for an 
ombudsman to consider her complaint. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than Miss H and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im also not going to respond to every single point made. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this - it reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair outcome to this complaint. 
Having considered matters carefully, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate that Miss H will be disappointed as I 
can see how strongly she feels about what happened, so Ill explain why.
Nationwide was concerned that Miss H was using her personal account for business 
purposes and decided to close it. I appreciate that Nationwide later acknowledged this 
wasnt case  so Ill refer to this later in the decision. 
Nationwide says that it gave Miss H notice of its intention to close her account on                
20 March 2023  in line with the account terms and conditions of the account, via a letter 
dated 13 January 2023. And it has provided a copy of that letter and Im satisfied that the 
address on the letter matched the address Nationwide held for Miss H on its systems.
               
Miss H says she didnt get the letter as she had updated her address with Nationwide a year 
before this letter was sent. But Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence to confirm Miss H 
had updated her address with Nationwide. I havent seen anything on Nationwides records 
to indicate that Miss H had requested a change of address. And monthly statements sent in 
the year leading up to this letter all quoted the same address as the letter. Im persuaded 
that had Miss H asked Nationwide to update her address it would have done so.
  
I note Miss H says she didnt notice the address on her statements hadnt changed as she 
has opted for paperless statements. But I find its reasonable for account holders to monitor 
their accounts to ensure information is accurate. 
Miss H also says she didnt receive an email which Nationwide says was sent on                         
20 February 2023. On balance, Im persuaded an email was sent  although, I accept its 
possible it went to Miss Hs spam emails so she may not have seen it.   
   
But even if Miss H didnt receive the letter or email, there is no dispute that Miss H received 
a text message a week before the account was closed. Overall, Im persuaded that 
Nationwide did enough to let Miss H know that it intended to close her account if it didnt 
hear from her before 20 March 2023.  
Miss H says she deleted the text as she thought it was a scam. But given the content of the 
text message, I think it would have been reasonable for Miss H to have contacted 
Nationwide to find out whether the text was genuine. Had she done so, Im persuaded that 
the account closure may have been prevented or at least the consequences would have 
been minimised.    
But by the time Miss H contacted Nationwide on 21 March 2023 the account had been 
closed. Miss H has said she was without money for essential expenditure. But Nationwide 
has provided evidence that the account balance was paid to Miss H on 23 March 2023 - two 
days after the account was closed. So, I dont find that there was any undue delay in 
Nationwide sending the account balance to Miss H given that by the time Miss H contacted 
Nationwide the account was already closed.  
But as mentioned above, Nationwide has accepted it made a mistake when it identified             
Miss Hs account as being used for business purposes. Nationwide has apologised and 
offered Miss H £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.  
So, what I need to decide is if this is fair given all the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Miss H says that that some of companies she paid by direct debit threatened to 
impose charges. And because she was worried, she had to, leave work to sort her financial 
matters out and she was concerned this would have consequences on her employment. She 
has also referred to the potential impact on her credit file.
I accept that it would have been very worrying for Miss H when she found her account had 
been closed and that she had real concerns about the potential consequences. But I havent 
been provided with any persuasive evidence that Miss H incurred any charges or that the 
matter impacted her employment or credit file. And I cant award compensation for events 
that didnt happen. 
But I do agree Miss H was caused distress and inconvenience - she had to make alternative 
arrangements for her regular direct debits and credit payments which she says took a couple 
of weeks to sort out. Miss H has also said Nationwide provided incorrect information about 
the number of letters sent to her. So, Ive carefully thought about everything that happened here taking into account that the 
impact could have been mitigated had Miss H contacted Nationwide when she received the 
text message. And, overall, Im satisfied that Nationwides apology and £250 compensation 
payment fairly reflects the worry caused by the account being closed and the inconvenience 
of having to make new arrangements for direct debits and credit payments which took a 
couple of weeks to sort out. So, I wont be asking Nationwide to take any further action in 
respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Nationwide Building 
Society has already paid Miss H fair compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman