DRN-3814089
The complaint
Ms C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money she lost when she fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
Ms C saw an Instagram account she follows posting about their trading account. They 
included an American telephone number to contact to get involved with investing and 
trading  which she did. After some discussion on WhatsApp, Ms C set up a trading account 
with the merchant. Unfortunately, it was a scam. 
Ms C made payments from her Monzo account to purchase cryptocurrency, which she sent 
on to the scammers  thinking it was going to a genuine trading account in her name. She 
initially did this via a MoonPay account she set up. She attempted five payments in one day 
 but MoonPay returned the last two payments. 
Following this, Ms C made two payments to an existing cryptocurrency account she held but 
was unable to send these on to the scammer. She was then directed to set up a different 
cryptocurrency account and made three more payments that day, followed by two more the 
next day. In total, she sent over £8,000. 
The scammers kept telling Ms C to send more funds for various reasons, such as taxation, 
commission and to purchase withdrawal codes. When this continued, she realised it was a 
scam. She now thinks the Instagram account she follows was hacked. 
Ms C contacted Monzo about the scam, but it didnt agree to refund her. It said she had 
authorised the payments and hadnt shown enough care to verify who she was paying. And 
it couldnt recover the funds through the chargeback scheme (or consider a claim under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model code) because the funds went directly to accounts Ms C 
held with genuine cryptocurrency merchants before being transferred on. 
Unhappy with this response, Ms C referred her complaint to our service. She said Monzo 
should have identified the payments as suspicious and questioned her, at which point it 
would have become apparent that she was falling victim to a scam. 
Our investigator thought, although Ms C had authorised the payments, Monzo ought to have 
been concerned by the time of the fifth payment. And that if it had responded appropriately, it 
would have unravelled the scam and prevented further loss. But she also thought Ms C had 
been negligent. She recommended that Monzo should refund 50% of the loss from payment 
five onwards. 
Ms C accepted this, but Monzo disagreed. It said she had made prior cryptocurrency 
payments, so the scam payments didnt seem unusual. And its not uncommon for 
customers to make a number of payments for investment purposes, including multiple 
payments to different wallets. It also disputed that intervention would have uncovered the 
scam, given the warning signs Ms C overlooked  including a warning on the trading 
platform website to only make payments to the company account.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations in force at the time, Monzo is expected to 
execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in dispute that Ms C 
was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that she authorised the payments. So the starting 
position is that shes liable for them. 
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. 
Ms C had only made a very low-level cryptocurrency payment from her Monzo account prior 
to this scam; the scam payments were significantly higher. She didnt have an existing 
MoonPay account, so this was a new payee. Looking at her account history, I find it does 
look unusual that she then made (or attempted) five payments to this new payee in one day 
 including higher-level payments, such as one for almost £2,000. 
By the time Ms C had made her fifth payment to this new, cryptocurrency payee, totalling 
over £3,500, I think Monzo ought to have been concerned that she might be at risk from 
fraud. I consider that it would have been proportionate to have spoken to her directly about 
what she was doing. 
Although the funds didnt go direct to the scammer, thats common in scams like this. As 
Ms C did here, victims often need to transfer funds through another account to purchase 
cryptocurrency for their investment. This is something Monzo ought to have been aware of 
 so it would have been appropriate to question Ms C about the overall circumstances of the 
payments. Such as how she came to make them, whether any other parties were involved, 
and what she was ultimately doing with the funds.
If Monzo had appropriately questioned Ms C, I think she would have explained she was 
acting on the instructions of a third party shed seen advertised on social media, who had 
directed her to set up various cryptocurrency wallets to transfer funds onto their platform. 
And the payments she had made by that point included a payment for a transfer code to 
withdraw funds, as well as payments due to MoonPay deducting commission.
I think Monzo ought to have realised and warned Ms C that it sounded like a scam. And I 
think she would have heeded this warning from her bank, speaking from a position of 
knowledge about how these scams work. Although this wasnt her first time buying 
cryptocurrency, she wasnt an experienced investor and she hadnt done lots of research 
into the merchant. So I think she would have been open to relying on what Monzo told her. Monzo disagrees that Ms C would have heeded a warning given the other warning signs she 
overlooked. But its not clear whether Ms C would have seen the warning Monzo has 
mentioned from the scammers website. Even if she had, I dont think it would have seemed 
relevant as she was sending her funds to the account details provided by the merchant. 
By contrast, a warning from her bank  as an external, trusted party  that it sounded like a 
scam would have given her reason to question what the merchant was telling. And I think 
this would have been more impactful given that there were existing reasons why she should 
have had concerns. 
If Monzo had intervened appropriately, it would likely have been on actual notice that Ms C 
would suffer financial harm from fraud. As this loss ought to have been in the contemplation 
of and foreseeable to Monzo, I consider it fair and reasonable to hold it liable for the loss. 
Ive also considered if Ms C should bear some responsibility for this loss by way of 
contributory negligence. She doesnt seem to have done much to verify who she was dealing 
with, despite paying them a lot of money. And I think the explanations they gave for the 
payments should have given her concern. For example, she paid them for a code to make a 
withdrawal  but this didnt work. Despite that, she went on to make seven further payments.
In the circumstances, I consider it fair to deduct 50% from the redress to reflect the role 
Ms C played in her losses. 
Putting things right
Monzo Bank Ltd should refund half of the money Ms C lost to the scam from the fifth 
(attempted) payment onwards. It should pay interest on this amount from the dates of 
payment to the date of settlement. As the payments were funded by transfers from Ms Cs 
savings account to her Monzo account, the interest should be applied at the rate of the 
originating savings account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right 
in line with what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman