DRN-2497668
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Chubb European Group SE settled a claim against him from 
another party (the third party) under his car insurance policy without investigating it properly.  
Chubb used a claim handling agent to handle the claim against Mr C, but for the sake of 
ease Ive referred to Chubb throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr C was involved in an incident in a car park with the third party. The third party said Mr C 
drove his car into their car, damaging it and causing them injury. Mr C reported the incident 
to Chubb and told them he didnt think hed caused any damage to the other car at all. The 
third party made a claim against Mr C through a solicitor for damage to their car and for 
personal injury. Chubb sent an engineer to inspect Mr Cs car and he felt the rear wheel of 
Mr Cs car could possibly have caused the damage to the third partys car. Chubb made 
further enquiries with the engineer and he said he couldnt be sure whether the Mr Cs car 
had caused the damage to the third partys car without measurements. However, this was 
never followed up and the measurements were never provided. 
Chubb settled the third party claim paying significant amounts for both the repairs to their car 
and for their personal injury. Chubb didnt tell Mr C that theyd done this and he only found 
out when he got his renewal documents and noticed the claim payment that had been made. 
Mr C complained to Chubb about the fact theyd settled the claim and not told him about this. 
Chubb investigated. They apologised for not keeping Mr C properly informed and offered 
him £200 in compensation for this. However, they said they were right to settle the third 
partys claim. 
Mr C complained to us. Our investigator said that Chubbs decision to settle the third partys 
claim was appropriate and that they had properly compensated him for not keeping him 
properly informed. Mr C didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I reviewed Mr Cs complaint and agreed with his view that Chubb hadnt investigated the 
third partys claim properly. I emailed Chubb and explained this and suggested they should 
change the way the claim was recorded on their system and central databases. I also 
suggested they compensated Mr C for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced as a 
result of their decision and for the impact the claim being recorded as a fault claim had had 
on his premium. 
Chubb came back and explained why they didnt agree with my view. I replied explaining in 
more detail why I thought they hadnt investigated the claim properly. However, Chubb 
hasnt responded to my most recent email, which is why Im issuing this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of Mr Cs policy Chubb are entitled to settled claims against him as they 
think appropriate. However, they are obliged to treat their customers fairly. So, Id only 
expect Chubb to settle a third party claim against Mr C if theyd investigated it properly and 
established on the balance of probabilities that Mr C was responsible for the damage and/or 
injury being claimed for.  
It is clear from the notes on the claim provided by Chubb that their engineer said that he 
couldnt determine whether the wheel on Mr Cs car had caused the damage to the third 
partys car without measurements. He wasnt provided with measurements and Chubb have 
told me he wasnt able to obtain them. So, despite it being clear the engineer wasnt satisfied 
on the balance of probabilities that Mr Cs car had caused the damaged the third party was 
claiming for, Chub settled their claims for the damage to the car and the injury they had said 
theyd suffered when Mr C caused the damage. 
I appreciate Chubb thinks they had enough to say on the balance of probabilities Mr Cs car 
had hit the third partys car and caused the damage, but I dont agree. I think, if anything the 
evidence suggests Mr Cs car couldnt have caused the damage. I say this from looking at 
the photographs of the rear wheel and wheel arch on Mr Cs car and the position of the 
damage to the third party car. These suggest to me it is very unlikely the rear wheel of Mr 
Cs car could have caught the bumper on the third partys car at the point where it was 
damaged. This is due to the apparent height difference between the bottom of the wheel and 
the fact the top of the wheel is recessed slightly. This suggests to me that Mr Cs car couldnt 
have hit the bumper without some form of damage occurring on or around the rear wheel 
arch. And the pictures and the engineer confirm there was no damage to the wheel arch.
This means I think Chubb settled the third party claim without a proper investigation and 
despite the evidence they had suggesting it was unlikely Mr Cs car had caused the damage 
the third party was claiming for. And I think if Chubb had properly investigated the claim they 
could have established Mr C hadnt caused the damage to the third partys car and defended 
their claim in its entirety. Obviously, I cant know for sure what the outcome would have been 
if this had happened, but I dont think its fair for Mr C to have a fault claim on his record as a 
result of a poor investigation by Chubb. And I also think Chubbs poor handling and decision 
to settle the claim caused Mr C distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
In view of what Ive said, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for 
Chubb to mark the claim against Mr C as non-fault (bonus-allowed) on their own records and 
on any external databases. I also think they should adjust Mr Cs premium retrospectively to 
reflect this and refund any extra premium hes paid. Plus, Chubb should pay Mr C a total of 
£300 in compensation in for the distress and inconvenience their decision to settle the claim 
and not keep him properly informed caused him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and order Chubb European Group 
SE to mark the claim against Mr C as non-fault (bonus-allowed) on their own records and on 
any external databases theyve recorded it on. 
I also require Chubb European Group SE to amend Mr Cs premium to reflect the fact it was 
a non-fault claim and refund any extra premium hes paid as a result of it being recorded as 
a fault claim. 
Finally, I require Chubb to pay Mr C £300 in total in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman