DRN-2893629
The complaint
Miss G complains that Nationwide Building Society made a number of errors with her 
mortgage application.  
What happened
Miss G wanted to buy a new house for herself (property 2) and gift her existing property 
(property 1) to a family member. She had a mortgage on property 1 with Nationwide. She 
applied to Nationwide to port her existing mortgage and take out additional borrowing to buy 
property 2.
Nationwide accepts it made errors and offered £500 compensation. Miss G says this isnt 
enough given the severity and number of breaches and brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator said Nationwide should pay £500 for poor mortgage advice, £250 for data 
protection breaches and £250 for suggesting that because of Miss Gs occupation she 
wasnt entitled to the same duty of care as other customers. Nationwide agreed to pay £750 
compensation but not the £1,000 recommended by the investigator, and so the complaint 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G described what happened in detail, and set out a list of the errors and breaches she 
says Nationwide made. Nationwide accepts it made errors. Consistent with our informal 
approach, Ill focus on the main issues and set out in brief what happened here. 
In June 2020 Miss G contacted Nationwide. She wanted to port her existing mortgage (of 
about £260,000) on property 1 to a property she intended to purchase, property 2. She 
needed to borrow additional funds for her purchase. 
Miss G told Nationwide that she planned to repay the mortgage on property 1 and give the 
property to a family member. She said she wanted to borrow more on property 2 to fund this. 
Nationwide did an initial assessment. It said Miss G could borrow up to £595,000 on the new 
property (which had a purchase price of about £700,000) with a loan to value of 85%. Miss G 
asked if this meant shed borrow £260,000 on property 1 and £595,000 on property 2. 
Nationwide said no, she could only borrow £595,000 and would need a deposit for the rest. 
At this point Nationwide wrongly recorded that Miss G was selling property 1. After an 
affordability check Nationwide said Miss G could only borrow £587,000. When Miss G again 
questioned the amount she was borrowing, Nationwide said £587,000 was all shed need.
Miss G met with Nationwides mortgage adviser in early July 2020, after which Nationwide 
issued a recommendation letter and a mortgage illustration. Miss G says she relied on the 
illustration when deciding to go ahead. 
Nationwide issued a mortgage offer on 31 July 2020. It sent the mortgage offer to the wrong 
firm of solicitors. It was nearly three weeks before Nationwide corrected the contact details 
for Miss Gs solicitor in its systems and sent it the mortgage offer. Miss G wasnt happy with 
the way Nationwide dealt with correcting its record of her solicitors details. She says 
Nationwide gave no assurance that it had rectified its data breach. 
On 26 August 2020 Miss Gs solicitor told her there was a condition in the mortgage offer 
requiring her to repay the mortgage on property 1 before Nationwide would release funds for 
the purchase of property 2. 
Miss G says she wasnt aware until then that shed have to repay the mortgage on 
property 1. Her purchase (due to exchange and complete at the end of August) was delayed 
until October 2020 while she arranged finance to repay the mortgage on property 1. Miss G 
says she made a number of suggestions as to how Nationwide could assist with this, but 
without success.
In September 2020 Nationwide updated Miss Gs address to property 2, even though the 
purchase hadnt completed. She says it sent two letters to her there, which she found when 
she moved in. 
Miss G was further upset that Nationwides complaint handler said she ought to have known 
that Nationwide had made an error and the mortgage on property 1 would have to be repaid. 
What errors did Nationwide make  and how did this affect Miss G?
Mortgage advice:
When Miss G met with Nationwides mortgage adviser she said she wanted to gift property 1 
to a family member mortgage free, and wanted to transfer her existing mortgage to 
property 2. The mortgage adviser didnt discuss repaying the existing mortgage with Miss G 
or ask her how shed fund this.
The mortgage illustration said Miss G would port her existing product, which had a loan 
amount of £260,000, to property 2 and borrow an additional £323,000. She had some 
savings that she intended to use as the deposit on property 2. This wouldnt have been 
enough for Miss G to repay the existing mortgage and fund her purchase. Unfortunately, it 
seems no-one spotted the shortfall at this point.
I must be clear here that I dont think Nationwide made an error when it didnt agree to lend 
Miss G the amount she needed for her purchase in addition to her existing mortgage (which 
would have meant her borrowing about £850,000 in total). Nationwide says this wasnt 
affordable for Miss G. This was also the case with Miss Gs suggested solutions to her 
funding shortfall such as leaving all or part of the existing mortgage in place after completion 
or offering a bridging loan. Nationwides error was that it didnt give Miss G clear information 
at the outset, so she knew that shed need to find additional funds. 
Nationwide says it couldnt offer Miss G enough borrowing for her to repay her existing 
mortgage and fund her purchase as this wasnt affordable. So Miss G was always going to 
have to find additional funds from elsewhere. Miss G knew this before she exchanged 
contracts for her purchase, so could have chosen not to go ahead if finding the additional 
funds would cause problems for her or her family.
Miss G would have had more time to consider how to fund the shortfall if shed been given 
clearer information at the outset. Its likely her solicitor would have brought the shortfall to 
her attention sooner if Nationwide hadnt made an error when recording its details. But ultimately, after being given correct information, Miss G decided to go ahead. 
I havent seen evidence that Miss G would have had better options available if shed been 
given clearer information in July 2020. I dont think its fair to say that Nationwide is 
responsible for any decisions made by Miss G (or her family) about how to fund the shortfall.
No doubt though it was upsetting and stressful for Miss G to find out some weeks into the 
process that she needed to find additional funds at short notice if she wanted to proceed with 
her purchase. A family member helped by cashing in investments and taking out a mortgage 
on their home. I can appreciate that finding herself in this position would have been upsetting 
for Miss G. I think its right that Nationwide pays compensation for this.
Data breaches:
Nationwide accepts it made an error when it recorded incorrect details for Miss Gs solicitor 
and then sent information to the wrong firm of solicitors. Miss G says it made another error 
when it updated her address in its systems when it knew her purchase had been delayed, 
and sent letters to her there. 
While Miss G says her data could have been misused, I havent seen any evidence that this 
was the case. However, this caused Miss G worry. Recording the wrong details for her 
solicitor and the time taken to correct this caused inconvenience to Miss G, and likely 
delayed her solicitor drawing attention to her funding shortfall. I think its right that 
Nationwide pays compensation for the upset and inconvenience its errors caused.
Comments by Nationwides complaint handler:
Miss G says Nationwides complaint handler told her she should have noticed its error, due 
to her professional occupation. This upset Miss G, who feels Nationwide wasnt treating her 
with the same duty of care as other customers. 
Nationwide says theres a responsibility for Miss G  just like any customer  to read the 
mortgage offer and other documents. And that, had she done so, she might have realised 
sooner there was a shortfall in her funding. It says Miss Gs occupation would have meant 
she was aware of the importance of reading documents.
I agree that customers should read documents sent to them, and ensure they understand 
the terms on which loans are offered. However, this doesnt change the fact that Nationwide 
had made errors which left Miss G confused about what would happen with her existing 
mortgage and delayed Miss Gs solicitor receiving the mortgage offer.
I dont think Nationwide intended to upset Miss G, or suggest it wasnt treating her with the 
same duty of care as other customers. Nonetheless she did find these comments upsetting, 
and I dont think it was right for Nationwide to say that Miss G should have spotted it had 
made an error. This discussion happened before Miss G had secured the additional funds 
and completed on her purchase, and no doubt added to her stress and upset.
Putting things right
Miss G says shes seeking compensation for Nationwides breaches, not for her distress and 
inconvenience. She says Nationwide should pay thousands just for the data breaches which 
she says reflects the statutory remedy.
I should explain that were an informal dispute resolution service. While we take relevant law 
and regulation into account, only a court can decide if theres been a breach of a statute. And we dont have the powers of a regulator, for instance to fine businesses. When 
considering what compensation is fair and reasonable, Ill follow our usual approach, to 
consider how Nationwides errors affected Miss G.
As Ive said, Nationwide made a number of errors. Each error caused Miss G worry, upset 
and inconvenience. Miss Gs purchase was delayed, she took time off work and she had to 
ask for help from family members. In the circumstances, I think £1,000 compensation as 
recommended by our investigator is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Nationwide Building Society to pay 
£1,000 to Miss G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman