The complaint  
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) allowed fraud on his accounts.  
What happened  
Mr P had a current account, savings account and Help to Buy ISA (HTBISA) with Barclays.  
Between June 2021 and August 2021, there were withdrawals from his current account or  
savings account of £200; £900, £900; £300; £1600. And in October 2021, there were  
withdrawals from his HTBISA of £4,700. Barclays refunded all the amounts and paid or  
offered, compensation of £450 for dist ress and inconvenience. In December 2021, Mr P  
transferred the balances to another bank. In November 2021, Barclays gave Mr P two  
months notice of their decision to close his accounts  on 27 January 2022.  
Mr P complained. He said Barclays shouldve done  more to stop the fraudulent transactions.  
As a result, he had suffered a lot of stress and inconvenience, and had to take the decision  
to transfer his balances to another bank to protect his money.  
Barclays said theyd taken the decision to close Mr Ps accounts following a review of his  
accounts. They said they could do this in line with their terms and conditions.  
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator said Barclays acted reasonably.  
Barclays had refunded all the amounts involved, a nd so Mr P had been put back in the  
position he was in if the frauds hadnt happened. Barclays had taken the decision to close  
his accounts, which they were entitled to do. She said we cant investigate how Barclays  
manages its business, including the secu rity it puts in place to protect its customers.  
Mr P didnt agree. He said Barclays were aware of the frauds taking place on his accounts  
and shouldve done more to protect him. As a result, he wants compensation for loss of  
earnings and the time spent in  sorting things out with Barclays. He also had to transfer his  
accounts. He said his credit rating had fallen because of the transfer of accounts. And he  
had also suffered a lot of worry and stress. He asked that an ombudsman look into his  
complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have looked at Mr Ps complaint and closely read the testimony that he put to us. Theres  
no doubt that what happened caused him a lot of stress and worry and took time to sort out.  
DRN-3739595I can see there were withdrawals from his current or savings account as follows:  
 
June 2021 - £200  
July 2021 - £900  
August 2021 - £300, £900, £1600  
October 2021  there was a withdrawal of £4,700 from Mr Ps HTBISA.  
 
Mr P says they were all fraudulent. I can see that Barclays investigated all the withdrawals,  
decided they were fraudulent and refunded the money. They also paid or offered a total of  
£450 in compensati on for distress and inconvenience. Barclays then decided to close Mr Ps  
accounts.  
 
I agree with our investigator  we cant challenge Barclays processes for investigating fraud  
or for protecting their customers  thats down to their commercial processes.  So, I cant say  
if they couldve prevented more of the frauds which took place. But - I can see they  
investigated what happened and took the decision to refund the money to Mr P, and paid or  
offered compensation. I confirmed with Barclays that £300 has be en paid and a further £150  
offered. So  they put Mr P back in the position he was in. Its only right that we award  
further compensation if we believe that Barclays made errors in what they did  and for the  
reasons Ive given, we cant say they did. And so  I cant in all fairness say Mr P should be  
awarded any more money for distress and inconvenience.  
 
Barclays took the decision to close Mr Ps accounts. They could do this in line with their  
terms and conditions which say they can close an account if t hey wish. And in Mr Ps case,  
Barclays gave two months notice of the closure  which was reasonable and would give him  
enough time to make other banking arrangements.  
 
Mr P has argued that his credit score has been affected because hes changed banks. I c ant 
say if that would affect his credit score or not  as many factors feed into it. But in any case,  
as Barclays had the right to close his accounts, it wouldnt be fair to hold them responsible  
for any effect on Mr Ps credit score.  
 
I can see that Mr P feels strongly about his complaint and will therefore feel disappointed by  
my decision. But I am not going to ask Barclays to do anymore here.  
 
My final decision  
 
I do not uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im re quired to ask Mr P to accept or  
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.  
 
Martin Lord  
Ombudsman  