DRN-2214683
The complaint
Miss L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard didnt offer her a credit 
card more suitable for her needs and which offered a lower interest rate.
What happened
Miss L says Barclaycard changed the type of her credit card but in April 2020 realised it 
offered a credit card that would have been more suitable for her needs. She says that credit 
card offered a cash back and a better interest rate and would have suited her foreign usage 
far better. Miss L would like Barclaycard to pay her compensation for the loss she has 
suffered by not having the credit card she would like, and questions why she wasnt offered 
that account. She would also like Barclaycard to refund any difference in interest that has 
been caused and switch her credit card account.
Barclaycard says Miss L has had the same account but it rebranded it. It says it is not 
obliged to offer advice on the different credit card accounts available and so doesnt accept 
making a mistake. 
Miss L brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Miss Ls account had been rebranded and not changed and it was up to Barclaycard 
to decide if it was prepared to offer a different account.
Miss L doesnt accept that view and says she asked for a different account but was refused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has acted fairly and hasnt 
made a mistake. I appreciate Miss L will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Miss L still has the same Barclaycard credit card account, but the name 
was changed. Im also satisfied that its up to Barclaycard, when exercising its commercial 
judgement, to make such decisions and its not our role to in interfere in them. I dont think in 
any event the rebranding would have had any real impact on Miss L.
I think its up to Miss L to decide what type of credit card account she would like to apply for, 
and that Barclaycard is not under any obligation to monitor its customers spending and offer 
them different types of credit card accounts. Im satisfied that its Barclaycards decision to 
approve or reject any applications again when exercising its commercial judgement. So, I 
dont think Barclaycard has made a mistake or acted unfairly by not offering Miss L a 
different type of credit card account and is entitled to reject any application she made for a 
different credit card account.
It follows that as I find Barclaycard hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly, that I cant fairly 
order it to compensate Miss L or pay her the difference in any interest rates.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman