DRN-1988344
 
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, dealt with her 
chargeback request. She said that she was told that the case was resolved in her favour 
when it wasnt. When the chargeback was re debited to her credit card Miss M was left with 
an unexpected balance.
What happened
In February 2019 Miss M paid £636 for flights through a travel agent (I shall refer to as A). In 
May when Miss M cancelled the flights  she only received a refund of £305. Miss M asked 
Halifax to raise a chargeback dispute for the remaining amount.
In May Halifax processed the chargeback and credited Miss Ms card with £304 as A had 
made Halifax aware of a cancellation fee of 30 euro. Halifax made a temporary credit of 
£304 to Miss Ms card and advised the chargeback could be disputed by the merchant over 
the following 45 days.
The chargeback was disputed by A, who said they had deducted a further cancellation fee of 
265-euro - as well as the 30-euro fee. Halifax processed a second chargeback, as they 
believed A hadnt made Miss M aware of the second cancellation fee at the time of the 
purchase.
In July Miss M received an email from Halifax telling her to log into a secure message. 
Miss M called the bank as she couldnt open the message. During the call Miss M was told 
the temporary refund of £304 was now permanent. Miss M spent the money on another 
holiday a few weeks later.
Later in July, the merchant disputed the chargeback again, and provided Halifax with the 
terms and conditions from the airline to whom the cancellation fee applied. They showed 
these were available to Miss M at the time of the purchase. Halifax didnt challenge this 
again.
In August Halifax sent a further message to Miss M to tell her the £304 would be re-debited 
from her card, as the second chargeback had been disputed. Miss M complained as shed 
been told the cashback was permanent, and shed now spent the money - believing it was 
hers.
Halifax upheld Miss Ms complaint as shed been wrongly informed during her call to them in 
July. The bank offered to compensate Miss M £150 for the inconvenience this had caused 
her. Halifax also offered to compensate Miss M for any phone charges shed incurred while 
trying to resolve the matter. Halifax credited an additional £77 to Miss Ms card, as they 
thought the initial refund amount had been incorrect.
Miss M didnt agree with Halifax and brought her complaint to us. She thought her account 
should be put back in the position it was in before shed been given incorrect information in 
July.
Miss M asked Halifax to refund any interest shed incurred. And said shed been left with an 
unexpected credit card bill that she was now struggling to pay off. Shed also spent over four 
hours on the phone, while at work, to try to resolve the matter, and said this had put a 
dampener on her next holiday.
Our investigators view was that Halifax had dealt with the chargeback correctly. He said the 
bank shouldnt be held responsible for Miss M spending the money on another holiday  as 
she wasnt entitled to the money through the chargeback scheme.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators view - saying what she spent the money on wasnt 
relevant. Shed spent the money believing it was hers, so she asked for an ombudsman to 
carry out a review.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 May 2020. I indicated that I intended to uphold the 
complaint and award Miss M £454 in compensation. Both parties have now replied.
Miss M replied and said she agreed with my provisional decision. But said she was more 
concerned about the time spent on the phone to Halifax than the bill incurred. 
Halifax replied and said they would increase their offer of compensation from £150 to £304 - 
but disagreed they should also pay £150 for the trouble and upset Miss M has experienced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their replies to my provisional decision. But as no new information 
has been provided, I see no reason to alter my provisional decision. Its largely repeated 
within my final decision which is set out below. Im satisfied the remedy is fair and reflects 
the level of trouble and upset caused to Miss M, including the time she spent contacting 
Halifax. Ill explain why.
Halifaxs investigation of the chargeback
Halifax initially believed Miss M potentially had a valid chargeback claim. Miss M was notified 
of the 45-day representation period where the merchant could dispute this. Miss Ms account 
had been temporarily refunded with the sum involved - while the bank gathered further 
evidence. As the merchant disputed the chargeback, Halifax made the second chargeback 
claim, notifying Miss M of a further 45-day representation period.
When it became clear Miss M wasnt entitled to the chargeback amount, Halifax gave notice 
and re-debited the funds. A had provided evidence showing that both cancellation fees were 
in line with As (and the airlines) terms and conditions, and this information had been made 
available to Miss M at the time of the booking.
Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied Halifax processed the chargeback request 
correctly. And when the chargeback was defended by the merchant for the second time  I 
can see why the bank didnt seek to challenge this again.
Information given during the telephone call
Ive listened to the recording of Miss Ms call to the bank in July. Having done so, I can 
understand why Ms M thought the cashback could no longer be disputed by the merchant. 
And I can understand why Miss M thought the credited £304 was permanent. The call 
handler said the representation period had passed, and reassured Ms M if the merchant 
were going to take the money again, theyd have to make a further representation - which he 
said they werent able to do.From the information provided by Halifax, I accept the £304 wasnt an amount Miss M was 
entitled to through the chargeback scheme. And Im satisfied Miss Ms chargeback request 
was dealt with correctly. But from the information Miss M received during the call, I can 
understand why Miss M thought Halifax had treated her unfairly when she received a further 
message telling her the money was to be debited from her account. Miss M had been told 
this wasnt a possibility during the call  and had spent the money.
As Ive not seen any evidence to show Miss M opened the message notifying her of the 
further 45-day representation period for the second chargeback. I conclude Miss M booked 
the holiday, shown on her statement on 29 July, in the belief the money was available to her 
to do so. This was owing to the information shed received during the call to Halifax. I can 
understand why Miss M thought that deducting the money from her card at a later date 
would be unfair.
As Halifax dont dispute Ms M was given incorrect information, I need to consider what 
represents a fair and reasonable remedy.
Halifax have offered to compensate Miss M £150 for any stress and inconvenience caused 
to her. And to reimburse any costs Miss M may have incurred while calling the bank. Both 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
But for the reasons Ive set out, I direct Halifax to also compensate Miss M by reimbursing 
the £304 she spent in reliance on the incorrect information it gave her, and to refund any 
interest incurred on that amount.
Miss M raised a further concern after she received my provisional decision. She asked if her 
credit file had been affected when Halifax recently decreased her credit limit. Id like to 
reassure Miss M that Halifax have said that any actions they took regarding this wouldnt 
have impacted Miss Ms credit file. However, to provide certainty, Ive included this in the 
redress Ive set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined, Im uphold Miss Ms complaint about Bank of Scotland Plc, 
trading as Halifax, and direct them to take the following action.
Make a payment of £150 to recognise the trouble and upset Miss M has experienced.
Reimburse reasonable costs Miss M can show  for example, by providing itemised 
telephone bills  she incurred in calling the bank about the dispute. 
Cancel the £304 that was re-debited to Miss Ms card, backdated to August 2019 
when the re-debit took place, to ensure she doesnt incur any interest on this sum.
Ensure no adverse payment information is recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation 
to payments due on the disputed sum.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman