DRN-1493280
The complaint
Mr D complains about how Covea Insurance plc dealt with a claim on his motor insurance 
policy. He wants compensation for his loss of earnings. 
What happened
Mr Ds car was deemed to be beyond economical repair after being assessed by Coveas 
approved repairer following an accident. Mr D didnt accept this or Coveas settlement offer 
and he said it threatened to withdraw his hire car. Mr D had his car repaired through the 
other drivers insurer at his own cost. He said he was without employment for two months 
because of this and he wants compensation for this and his trouble and upset. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Covea 
was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to deem the car to be beyond economical 
repair following an engineers assessment. He thought the repairs estimate included only 
damage caused in the accident. He didnt think Covea was responsible for Mr Ds loss of 
earnings. He thought it was Coveas process to request the return of the hire car once a 
settlement offer had been made. As it was, Mr D had use of this car for a further two months. 
He thought Covea had reasonably offered to review Mr Ds repairs invoice and to pay the 
cost of the repairs hed had made. 
Mr D replied that Covea had included non-accident-related repairs in its estimate. He 
thought that as repairs had been completed, this showed that Coveas decision that the car 
was beyond economical repair was wrong. He said hed been able to keep the courtesy car 
because the other insurer said his car was repairable. He said he was entitled to choose 
where to have his car repaired and should have had a second estimate. He wanted Covea to 
offer him its best valuation for his car to settle his complaint. Mr D asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this has been a stressful and frustrating experience for Mr D. I was sorry to 
hear that it has affected his well-being. 
I can see from Coveas records that after the accident Mr D asked for Covea to arrange for 
his car to be repaired. The agent conducted a desk-top assessment and thought his car was 
repairable. But when the approved repairer assessed the car, Covea said the cost of the 
necessary repairs compared to the cars valuation exceeded its threshold. And so this made 
the car beyond economical repair. 
I think its for Covea to decide what this threshold should be. I think the level it has set is 
comparable to other insurers. So I cant say this is unreasonable. 
Mr D was concerned that the repairs estimate may have been inflated by repairs for damage 
not caused by the accident. Ive looked at the detailed estimate completed on the standard 
template used by repairers. I can see that the estimate is for repairs only to the bumper and 
left-hand side of the car, where the damage occurred.  
In its response to Mr Ds complaint, I think Covea made an error. It said the estimate also 
included damage to the right-hand door as its engineer thought this may have been caused 
by the accident. But this wasnt the case. I can assure Mr D that the repairs estimate didnt 
include this.  
Mr D thought Covea should have arranged an independent assessment of his car when he 
was unhappy with its decision that his car was beyond economical repair. I think this is good 
practice when there is conflicting engineering evidence provided by the parties. But I cant 
see that Covea had any reason to doubt the assessment by its approved garage that was 
checked by its in-house engineer. So I cant say Covea should have then arranged a further 
assessment. 
Mr D said he was entitled to have his car repaired at a manufacturer-approved garage. I 
agree that many insurers do offer this and allow consumers to have repairs made at a 
garage of their choice. But Mr Ds policy only provides for repairs at Coveas approved 
repairers. So I cant say Covea did anything wrong in not offering an alternative.
Mr D disputed Coveas settlement offer and he said it threatened to take back his hire car. 
But the policy only provides a hire car whilst repairs are being made. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Covea to end the hire car provision when the car was deemed to be 
beyond economical repair and after it had made its settlement offer. As it was, I can see that 
Mr D had use of a hire car for a further two months. So I cant say that this caused him any 
loss in any case.
Mr D then arranged for his car to be repaired through the other drivers insurer. He said this 
cost him £1,765 and he thought this showed that Coveas repairs estimate was wrong. Were 
not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as 
this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. 
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
Covea relied on its approved repairers estimate and its in-house engineers review to decide 
the car was beyond economical repair. It asked Mr D for a copy of his repair invoice to see if 
all the needed repairs had been completed and if new or used parts were used. I think this is 
fair and reasonable as this would establish if the two were comparable. But Mr D declined to 
provide this, despite frequent requests by our investigator. So Covea didnt have any 
alternative evidence to consider that would challenge its repairers estimate. So I think its 
justified its decision to rely upon it. 
Mr D said he would be willing to forward the invoice for me to consider. But, as Ive said 
above, Im not an engineer. In any case, Covea has already offered to provide Mr D with a 
settlement offer based on its engineers consideration of this invoice. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. And I think its for Mr D to decide whether he wants to take up this offer and 
forward his invoice to Covea for its consideration. 
Mr D wanted a higher settlement offer than the cost of his repairs. But I dont think that would 
be fair or reasonable as that would leave Mr D in a better position than he was indemnified 
for. Mr D said he lost work because of Coveas decision about his cars repairs and he wanted 
compensation for his loss of earnings. But I can see that Mr D wasnt without transport 
during this period, so I cant hold Covea responsible for this. And I think his loss of earnings 
is an uninsured loss and not covered by his policy. So I cant say Covea should compensate 
him for this. 
I can understand that dealing with the claim has been a stressful business for Mr D and he 
thinks Covea hasnt done what he requires. But I think Covea handled his claim fairly and 
reasonably and in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. So I dont think it needs to 
provide Mr D with any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman