DRN-2587688
The complaint
Mr X is bringing a complaint on behalf of the estate of his father, Mr C. Hes complaining 
about the sale of a decreasing term life assurance policy by Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
In June 1996, Mr C and his wife took out a 25-year repayment mortgage with Nationwide. At 
the same time, Mr C took out a 25-year decreasing term life assurance policy which matched 
the mortgage. In June 2010, Nationwide cancelled that policy and sold Mr C a replacement 
policy, with a term of eight years.
Mr X is complaining that the sale of the second policy was inappropriate. He says at that 
time the mortgage had 11 years remaining, but in contrast the new policy had a term of eight 
years. This meant that when Mr C died, the amount paid out from the life assurance was 
over £3,500 less than the outstanding debt on the mortgage. Mr X also said that the 
difference between the premiums on the existing policy and the replacement policy was 
negligible  so there was no reason for Mr C to change his policy in June 2010.
When Nationwide replied to Mr Xs complaint, they said the sale had been non-advised. So 
they said Mr C had to make his own decision and their duty was only to provide him with 
enough information to make a fully informed choice. They said they thought their account 
manager had provided Mr C with enough information and hed had plenty of opportunity to 
review the documents and ask questions or cancel the plan. 
Mr X wasnt happy with Nationwides response so he brought his complaint to our service. 
He was upset that his father had been sold an inappropriate policy and said there was no 
reason for his father to have changed his life assurance in 2010. He also noted that the 
advisor had received commission for selling the policy.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said although Nationwide said the sale was non-
advised, she thought Mr C had likely been guided by Nationwide to change his policy. She 
also didnt think Mr C had been provided with enough information to understand that the life 
assurance would expire before the end of the mortgage term. She said shed have expected 
Nationwide to warn Mr C of the implications of changing his life assurance, especially the 
risk that it could create a shortfall in his cover. She thought it was unlikely Mr C would have 
changed his policy if hed been made aware of the implications and said Nationwide should 
pay Mr C the difference between what the original policy would have paid out and what the 
replacement policy paid.
Nationwide werent happy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. They said they would have made it clear to Mr C that the sale was non-advised. 
And they said Mr C had enough information about both his mortgage and the replacement 
life assurance to make a fully informed choice. They said theres no evidence or customer 
testimony that Nationwide guided Mr C into making the change and in contrast the 
documentary evidence supports their statement that the sale was non-advised.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint  for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain further.
Its clear that the change in policy wasnt suitable for Mr C. Theres nothing to suggest he 
had any intention of making early repayments to reduce the remaining term on his mortgage. 
And the saving on premiums was negligible. So I have to consider whether Mr C made the 
change on an advised or a non-advised basis. And if it was non-advised, whether 
Nationwide gave Mr C enough information for him to make a fully informed decision.
Although Nationwide have said this was a non-advised sale, Im not satisfied it was. 
Nationwide have said Mr C would have been given a leaflet which explained he wasnt 
receiving any advice or recommendations, and theyve told us the customer account 
manager who handled the sale wasnt authorised to give advice. But I cant see that Mr C 
confirmed that he understood it was non-advised. 
Mr X has told us that Mr C wasnt financially astute so wouldnt have had any real 
understanding of his life assurance. So it seems very unlikely that hed have asked to 
change his policy unless hed been prompted to do so, particularly given there were no 
changes to his mortgage at the time. And if he was prompted to change his policy by a 
Nationwide account manager, its likely hed have interpreted that as advice to make the 
change. In addition, it appears that the application for the new policy was filled in on Mr Cs 
behalf  the signature section is not signed but instead shows Mr Cs name typed in. 
Finally, theres no clear reason why Mr C would have changed his policy, nor on what 
information hed have based that decision. Whilst Nationwide have said hed have been 
provided with a key facts document, this 16-page document gives information about six 
different types of policy. It certainly doesnt set out the differences between his existing 
policy and the replacement policy. 
Although the information included in the application form allows for some comparison of the 
two policies, neither the premium nor the remaining term of the existing policy are shown. 
And the remaining term of Mr Cs mortgage isnt shown either, so I cant see how hed have 
been able to come to an informed decision based on this information.
Nationwide said Mr C would have been aware of the remaining balance and term on his 
mortgage because they were shown on his annual statements. But the sale of the 
replacement policy was made in July 2010, when the most recent statement was dated 
January 2010. I dont think its reasonable to assume Mr C would have had this information 
to hand when signing up for the replacement policy. 
Taking everything together, Im not satisfied Nationwide provided Mr C with enough 
information to make a fully informed decision about the change in his policy. And I think Mr C 
likely made the change on the understanding that he was being advised to do so by 
Nationwide. So Ill be asking Nationwide to put things right.  
Putting things right
Im satisfied that if Mr C had been fully informed, or suitably advised, he wouldnt have 
changed his life assurance. So, hed have continued to pay the slightly higher premium, but 
the value of the policy would have been higher when he died. 
To put things right, Nationwide need to assess what Mr Cs original policy would have paid 
out on his death, and then pay to Mr Cs estate the difference between that amount and the 
amount that was actually paid out, together with simple interest at 8% per year. 
Although our investigator didnt say this, Nationwide are entitled to deduct the difference in 
premiums that Mr C. I put this point to both Nationwide and Mr X and neither had any 
comments on the matter.   My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding this complaint. Nationwide Building Society need to 
pay to Mr Cs estate:
The difference between what the original policy would have paid out and what the 
replacement policy did pay out;
Plus simple interest at 8% per year;
Deducting the difference in premiums if they choose to do so.
If Nationwide Building Society considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr X how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr X a tax deduction certificate if asked for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman