DRN-3827634
The complaint
Mr P complains that Oplo PL Limited wont refund to him the money that he paid for a 
holiday club membership. Hes being helped with his complaint by his daughter.
What happened
Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with a finance provider in March 2019 for a 
loan to pay for a holiday club membership. The loan was for £13,950, which was the 
purchase price of the membership, and Mr P agreed to make 179 monthly payments of 
£142.40 and a final payment of £143.47 to the finance provider. 
Mr P contacted the finance provider 22 days later and said that he wanted to cancel the 
loan. The finance provider said that the withdrawal period had ended. Mr P then complained 
to the finance provider about the liquidation of the holiday company, that the loan had been 
mis-sold to him and the way that hed been treated. It issued final response letters to him in 
September and October 2022 in which it said that another holiday company had replaced 
the holiday company and the membership remained available to Mr P and his wife, the loan 
hadnt been mis-sold to him and there was no evidence that it had treated him poorly.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He thought that it was likely that a 
misrepresentation had taken place during the sale of the membership and that a court would 
conclude that an unfair debtor-creditor relationship had arisen as a result of what looked to 
be a very significant imbalance in knowledge and understanding between the parties to the 
agreement at the point of sale. He recommended that the finance provider should: refund all 
repayments made under the loan agreement, with interest, and cancel the loan agreement; 
refund any annual maintenance fees, with interest; and arrange for the membership to be 
surrendered or cancelled or make other such arrangements so that there was no ongoing 
liability for maintenance or other charges for Mr P and his wife under that agreement.
Mr Ps loan has now been transferred to Oplo and it has assumed the finance providers 
obligations under the loan agreement. It has asked for Mr Ps complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman. It has explained why it doesnt consider that the membership was 
misrepresented to Mr P and his wife. It says that they were at the compliance and signing 
meeting of their own free will and were able to leave the meeting at any time. It says that 
Mr P and his wife acknowledged the information provided, including their right to withdraw 
from the agreements, and clearly state that they are happy with the arrangement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Mr P used credit, in the form of the loan from the finance provider, to pay for the 
membership and the complaint that hes made to this service has been considered 
under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974;
section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or 
services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier (provided that certain criteria set out in that section 
are met);
section 140A gives a court the power, amongst other things, to require a creditor to 
repay any sum paid by the debtor under a credit agreement if it determines that 
theres an unfair relationship between the debtor and the creditor;
Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ps claims under sections 75 and 140A as 
only a court would be able to do that but Im considering whether or not the finance 
providers response to his claims was fair and reasonable in the circumstances;
although Mr P and his wife were on holiday when they entered into the agreements, I 
consider it to be clear from the evidence thats been provided that they dont take 
regular holidays and theyve not used the membership;
Im not persuaded that a holiday club membership with a purchase price of £13,950 
and annual maintenance fees was likely to have been suitable for them;
Oplo has provided a video recording of the compliance and signing meeting and I 
consider it to be clear from that video that Mr P and his wife didnt properly 
understand the membership that they were buying  although the holiday companys 
representative explained it to them again, Im not persuaded that its likely that they 
understood what they were buying;
Mr P and his wife signed a right to withdraw form at that signing meeting - the holiday 
companys representative asked them to sign the form to show that theyd been 
given that information but there was no mention in that meeting of the time period in 
which they could withdraw from the agreements;
Mr P contacted the finance provider 22 days after hed signed the loan agreement 
because he wanted to cancel the loan  that was outside of the 14 day period in 
which he could withdraw from the agreements but I consider that his request to 
cancel the loan at that time is further evidence that the membership wasnt suitable 
for him and his wife and that they hadnt understood the way that the membership 
works;
this is a finely balanced complaint, but having considered all of the evidence, I agree 
with our investigator that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld as Im persuaded that 
the relationship between Mr P and the finance provider was unfair and I consider it to 
be more likely than not that a court would find that there was an unfair relationship 
between the finance provider and Mr P in these circumstances and that it would 
require Oplo to repay to Mr P the amount that hes paid under the loan agreement;
the holiday company has stopped trading - which would be a breach of contract - but 
the finance provider says that a different management company has been appointed 
to provide the holiday club membership and that it remains available to Mr P and his 
wife;
I consider that to be a suitable remedy for the breach of contract and Im not 
persuaded that Oplo would have any further liability to Mr P under section 75 arising 
from that breach of contract - and Im not aware of any other breach of contract by 
the holiday company;
our investigator thought that the membership had been misrepresented to Mr P and 
his wife but, as Ive concluded that its more likely than not a court would find that 
there was an unfair relationship between the finance provider and Mr P, I dont 
consider that theres any need for me to make a finding as to whether the 
membership was misrepresented to Mr P; andI dont consider that the finance providers response to Mr Ps section 140A claim 
was fair and reasonable and I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances for Oplo to take the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Oplo to take the actions recommended by our 
investigator. Ive not seen any evidence to show that the finance provider or Oplo has 
recorded any adverse information about the loan agreement on Mr Ps credit file  but if any 
such information has been recorded, I consider that it would also be fair and reasonable for 
Oplo to ensure that that information is removed. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and I order Oplo PL Limited to:
1. Refund to Mr P all of the payments that hes made under the fixed sum loan 
agreement.
2. Cancel the loan agreement at no further cost to Mr P.
3. Reimburse Mr P for any annual maintenance fees that he and his wife have paid to 
the holiday company in relation to their membership.
4. Arrange for Mr P and his wife to be released from the membership and any further 
liability arising from it  and to reimburse them for any such liability that they do incur.
5. Remove any adverse information that it or the finance provider has recorded on 
Mr Ps credit file relating to the loan agreement.
6. Pay interest on the amounts to be paid to Mr P under 1 and 3 above at an annual 
rate of 8% simple from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. Oplo must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for 
one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman