DRN-3625229
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Experian Limited wont remove some defaults from her credit 
file.
What happened
This complaint surrounds several defaulted accounts being reported on Miss Bs credit file 
by the company who now owns the debts.
In view of Miss Bs health situation and the age of the accounts, the debt owner agreed to 
write off the debts as a goodwill gesture. But they explained they would continue to report 
the defaults on Miss Bs credit file. 
Miss B asked Experian to remove the defaults. Experian explained they dont own the data 
on her credit file  for those accounts, the debt owner does. So they couldnt change the 
information without the debt owners consent. They raised disputes with the debt owner, but 
the debt owner reiterated that the defaults were being correctly reported, so they declined to 
remove them.
Miss B came to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently and explained 
that Experian really couldnt remove the defaults without the debt owners consent. Miss B 
asked to take things further, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Miss B has been going through a truly tough time, and so she has my 
sympathy. Im grateful to her for being candid and open with us about her situation, and Im 
glad to hear that these debts were written off for her.
I should explain that Miss Bs credit file is there to be an accurate reflection of what actually 
happened with her debts. And when a debt gets written off, it doesnt cease to exist  it still 
exists, it just means that the debt owner has agreed not to pursue their customer anymore. 
So even if an account gets written off, like these ones were, they wont usually disappear or 
be removed from ones credit file. It is correct to report a default on a customers file when 
that default actually happened, even if the debt later gets written off.
I should also explain that Experian do not own the data on Miss Bs credit file  its the 
companies she owed the money to who own the data. And Experian can only change the 
data with the permission of the company who owns it. So in this case, Experian would only 
have been able to remove the defaults with the debt owners permission.
Experian queried things with the debt owner and raised disputes on Miss Bs behalf. But the 
debt owner repeatedly confirmed that the defaults were correct and should not be removed. 
And Im afraid theres not really anything more Experian could have reasonably done. 
Ultimately, its the debt owners decision to remove these defaults or not. And we would not 
normally expect them to be removed.
If its of any consolidation to Miss B, defaults normally disappear from ones credit file six 
years after the default date. And I can see that some of these defaults were from around six 
years ago  so some of them will have already fallen off her credit file by now, or will be 
about to fall off.
But while I know this will come as a disappointment for Miss B, and while it is not my 
intention to disappoint her, I cannot tell Experian to remove these defaults.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman