DRN-4205792
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly reduced the credit limit on his credit 
card account and deducted tax from a compensation payment.
What happened
Mr M made a number of complaints to Barclays which resulted in a payment of interest 
ordered by this service. He says Barclays deducted tax from the payment which is unfair as 
he does not pay tax. Mr M also complains that Barclays unfairly reduced the credit limit on 
his credit card account. He says that decision is linked to his other complaints and needs 
looking at in those circumstances. 
Barclays says it deducted tax from the payment as its obliged to do. It says it deducted just 
over £480 from the payment and says its up to Mr M to either pay further tax or claim a 
refund. Barclays says its entitled to reduce a credit limit in line with account terms and 
conditions.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays had issued three default notices and the account was in arrears. The 
investigator thought in any event Barclays was entitled to reduce the credit limit without 
providing reasons for doing so. The investigator thought Barclays correctly deducted tax 
from the payment.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says the problems were caused by Barclays earlier 
mistakes and his credit limit may not have been reduced. He questions why he should wait 
for a tax refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I make 
clear to Mr M that I am aware he has other complaints, but this decision will only deal with 
the tax complaint as well as the credit limit reduction.
I am sure Mr M appreciates that neither we nor Barclays set the rules about the payment of 
tax on compensation and, as in this case, payments of interest on refunds. The rules are set 
by His Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) and Barclays is obliged to follow those 
rules, which in summary say that tax is payable on such payments. 
I can see from Barclays records that it wrote to Mr M on 15 September 2021 providing him 
with what I think is a detailed table of payments, interest calculations and tax deducted. I can 
also see Barclays told Mr M that it had deducted tax at the basic rate of 20% and that he 
should contact HMRC using a specified form to either increase that payment if he paid tax at 
a higher level or to request a refund if he didnt pay tax. I appreciate Mr M says he doesnt 
pay tax, but I wouldnt have expected Barclays to know that or that it would have made any 
difference to the deduction.
So, Im satisfied that Barclays didnt make a mistake or act unfairly by deducting the tax and 
provided clear information to Mr M why it did so. And what he needed to do to reclaim the 
tax. I dont think it clear if Mr M has applied for the refund or what the outcome was. I 
appreciate Mr M says there would be a delay in him receiving the money but that is not 
something I can fairly hold Barclays responsible for in these circumstances. I also appreciate 
Mr M may conclude the deduction was linked to the complaint, but I make clear to Mr M that 
Barclays has acted as I would expect, and such deductions are inevitable due to the type of 
payment he received.
I have looked carefully at Mr Ms account terms and conditions which Im satisfied he would 
have agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear 
that Barclays can reduce a credit limit. I can see that Barclays wrote to Mr M before each 
credit limit reduction telling him about the change. So, Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to 
reduce the credit limit and isnt obliged to provide Mr M with the exact reasons for doing so. I 
dont think it matters about Mr Ms other complaints or that they are relevant. As I have made 
clear Barclays is entitled to make a commercial business decision and reduce a customers 
credit limit in line with account terms and conditions.
Overall, I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly he 
feels about what took place. But this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve these 
complaints informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman