DRN-2140418
The complaint
Mr Cs unhappy that NewDay Ltd unexpectedly blocked his card payments to a merchant 
that hed paid numerous times before. 
What happened
The parties are aware of the background to this complaint. So, I wont set it out in detail 
here. But, in summary, Mr C attempted to make two payments to an online employee 
benefits website. And these were blocked by NewDays fraud systems. This resulted in his 
card being blocked until he contacted NewDay. And due to one of those card blocks, Mr C 
was left embarrassed in a restaurant when his card was declined.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She considered that 
NewDay was required to have fraud systems in place. And that as these had operated as 
expected, NewDay hadnt done anything wrong. Mr C didnt agree. He thought that as hed 
made numerous payments to this merchant before, the transactions shouldnt have been 
stopped. He also thought that NewDay could have taken action to place this merchant on an 
approved list, as it appeared to have been able to do that at a later stage after he 
complained.
One of our senior investigators also looked at Mr Cs complaint and provided him with an 
explanation of how banks fraud systems worked. But Mr C still wanted an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C will be disappointed to hear that I agree with our investigators and this isnt a complaint 
that I shall be upholding. Ill explain why below.
Ill start by saying that I completely understand Mr Cs frustrations with NewDay. He was left 
unable to complete transactions on at least two separate occasions. He wasnt sent a text 
message or telephoned to seek authorisation for the transactions. And when his card was 
declined in the restaurant, this must have been very embarrassing.
But whilst all that will have been very annoying for Mr C, what I need to decide here is 
whether or not NewDay did anything wrong, and so may need to apologise to Mr C and/or 
pay him some compensation. I note that NewDay has apologised for the number of times 
that Mr C had to contact it and has paid £15 into his account as a goodwill gesture for the 
trouble he experienced. But Mr C wanted confirmation that this wouldnt happen again. And 
some further compensation for the inconvenience and embarrassment caused.
As our senior investigator has explained to Mr C, banks fraud systems run on complicated 
algorithms. These are constantly being updated and are a requirement of NewDays 
regulator, whereby financial service providers have an obligation to protect their customers 
from fraud.
In Mr Cs case, despite him having made numerous payments to that particular merchant 
before, NewDays fraud systems were triggered. I dont consider that to have been unfair or 
unreasonable. Fraud on bank customers is at an all-time high. And on any given day, 
different types of fraud will be taking place. NewDay is entitled to set its systems to catch 
potentially fraudulent transactions as it chooses. And whilst this will inevitably occasionally 
give rise to some inconvenience for customers, that is of course much better than those 
same customers losing money to a fraudster.
When Mr C complained, he thinks that NewDay just added this particular merchant to an 
approved list. And I have noted from his card statements that successful transactions to the 
same merchant were made over the following few months. But NewDay tell me that its not 
as simple as there being an approved list. Once a transaction has been stopped, and then is 
approved by the customer, the system may of course allow a re-attempt of that transaction 
shortly afterwards. But if the fraud systems are still targeting a particular type of suspicious 
payment, that does unfortunately mean that any future transactions carried out by a 
customer may still be stopped.
So just because a customer has made transactions to a merchant before, that is no 
guarantee they will not be stopped again in the future. Its not open to me to tell NewDay 
how it should set its fraud systems. Thats its own choice and isnt something that Id 
generally interfere with. Of course, I wouldnt expect NewDay to inconvenience its customers 
more than was absolutely necessary to protect them from fraud. And I do think that where it 
can, it should send alerts to customers to let them know whats happened. That 
unfortunately didnt happen here, but I understand this wasnt a malfunction of the system 
but more a question of the risk level of the potential fraud that was being targeted.
So, in summary, whilst I can empathise with Mr C about the situation he found himself in, Im 
sorry to say that I dont agree with him that NewDay did something wrong here. Or that he 
should be paid more compensation than he has already received. Im also unable to ask it to 
make changes to the way that its security systems operate. Thats not something that this 
service generally does, nor do I think it is necessary in this instance.
Finally, Id like to apologise to Mr C for the length of time that it took us to investigate his 
complaint and the time its taken for us to get him a decision. Weve had large numbers of 
people needing our help of late. And weve been taking on new staff to help handle these 
complaints. But Im sorry about the length of time that Mr C has had to wait before now.
 My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman