DRN-3163056
The complaint
Mrs H complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial 
Services (BMWFS) unfairly applied charges in respect of excess mileage under her hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
In November 2015 Mrs H acquired a car using a hire purchase agreement provided by 
BMWFS. The agreement set out that the total amount payable (including any advance 
payments) was £13,813.55 and that Mrs H was required to make 47 monthly payments of 
£186.89 as well as an optional final repayment of £4,986.00 if she wanted to purchase the 
car.
The agreement also set out that Mrs H had the right to terminate it at any point before the 
final payment was due. If Mrs H exercised that right, BMWFS would be entitled to the return 
of the car and at least half the total repayment under the agreement, which was £6,906.78.
In May 2019 Mrs H exercised her right to end the agreement and BMWFS sent her a 
voluntary termination pack to complete and return. Mrs H subsequently returned the car and 
BMWFS wrote to her in June 2019 explaining that shed exceeded her mileage allowance by 
12,431 miles, so, she needed to pay an excess mileage charge of £407.74.
Mrs H disputed the charge BMWFS had applied. In summary she said that section 100 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) says that her liability under the agreement was limited 
to one half of the total price payable. She argued that she had paid this sum, so BMWFS 
was not entitled to ask her to pay anymore. She also said that shed been told at the outset 
that she wouldnt need to pay an excess mileage chart if she ended the agreement early.
In response to Mrs Hs complaint BMWFS said that the arrears and excess mileage charges 
occurred prior to the agreement being terminated, so Mrs H should be expected to pay those 
sums. It added that the mileage allowances of such an agreement should be pro-rated if the 
agreement is ended early. 
Mrs H referred her complaint to this service and it was considered by one of our 
investigators. They didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They were satisfied that 
BMWFS had applied excess mileage charge correctly having taken into account Mrs Hs 
agreement as well as relevant legislation  the CCA.
With specific reference to relevant legislation, our investigator said;
- S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination.
- In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable 
under the hire purchase agreement. It doesnt include charges for items that are 
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges 
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
- S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent 
to be affected by the termination.
- The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue. 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mrs Hs agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination.
- The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in 
the total price of the agreement.
- The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mrs Hs accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount of £407.74.
- The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage 
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost.
- The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded.
- The investigator concluded that when considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, he was satisfied it was made clear and not misleading about when an excess 
mileage charge could be applied and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional amounts.
Mrs H didnt agree. She maintained that she hadnt been treated fairly and drew particular 
attention to what she believed was a misrepresentation made by a representative of 
BMWFS. She explained in detail that she was specifically told that an excess mileage 
charge wouldnt apply if she ended the agreement early. Our investigator discussed this 
point with Mrs H, but said that based on the evidence hed been provided he wasnt 
persuaded that there had been a misrepresentation about whether an excess mileage 
charge would apply.
The case has been passed to me to make a final decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Before doing so, I want to acknowledge that Mrs H had made a number of detailed 
submissions and arguments in relation to this case. Ive considered them all, carefully and in 
detail. My decision, however, will focus on what I think is relevant to the case. I dont intend 
to cover each and every point Mrs H had made, as I dont think thats necessary in setting 
out what I consider to be a fair outcome.
Mrs Hs hire purchase agreement allowed her use of the car for the agreements duration. 
She also had the option to purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement on the 
basis that she made a final payment. Although Mrs H was entitled to use the car, that was 
subject to certain conditions, such as taking care of it and only driving a certain distance 
each year and overall throughout the agreement. The agreement set out what would happen 
should Mrs H not meet those requirements. 
Mrs H exercised her right to end the agreement. In some instances, voluntary termination 
allows the hirer to simply hand the car back without having to pay anything more. But that is 
dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement, whether 
there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess mileage or 
other charges are due. In this case, Mrs H disputes an excess mileage charge of £407.74 that she has been asked 
to pay.
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Mrs Hs hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and her 
case, that was £6,906.78. Various sections of the agreement Mrs H had with BMWFS also 
referred to the liability on early termination, including where excess mileage charges may 
increase the final liability.
Mrs H has referred to the case of Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited v Estrella 
Cahalane which she believes supports her view that lenders arent legally entitled to charge 
for exceeding a mileage allowance. Shes said that a judge decided that excess mileage 
charges were not recoverable in that specific case. 
While some consumers may have had success in raising this issue through the courts, the 
court will have considered the specific circumstances of those individual cases, including the 
specific terms of the agreements entered into and what that means in relation to liability 
under S99 and S100. 
Whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what I 
have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow the charging for 
excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding voluntary 
termination? In Mrs Hs specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means is that Mrs H is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these 
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mrs Hs hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the 
mileage allowance will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charge will accrue accordingly immediately prior to termination. Im 
satisfied Mrs Hs agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges 
accrue. 
The agreement also has a section headed Termination: your rights. This section contains 
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary, 
sets out that so long as Mrs H has paid at least half the total amount payable under the 
agreement, she will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for exceeding 
the mileage might apply. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is 
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains 
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary 
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mrs H.  
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mrs H is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  
Lastly, Ive given careful consideration to Mrs Hs allegation of being misled about whether 
an excess mileage charge would apply to her. Mrs H explained to our investigator, in detail, 
that the BMWFS representative who sold the agreement had adjusted her yearly mileage allowance in order to make the monthly payments more affordable for her. Mrs H says she 
specifically pointed out shed likely exceed her mileage allowance, but says she was told that 
she wouldnt be required to pay for excess mileage if she ended the agreement early.
I wasnt present when Mrs H signed her agreement, so I cant say for sure what was 
discussed regarding excess mileage. But, on balance, I think that if BMWFS had agreed 
excess mileage charges wouldnt apply to Mrs H that wouldve likely been represented on 
the agreement which she signed. Given that its not, and Im satisfied that its clear from the 
agreement that excess mileage charges would apply, Im not persuaded that Mrs H was told 
that they wouldnt. So, like our investigator, Im satisfied that its fair in the circumstances for 
BMWFS to have applied a charge for excess mileage and that its treated Mrs H fairly in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman