DRN-3274795
The complaint
Miss G says J D Williams & Company (J D Williams), trading as Simply Be, irresponsibly 
lent to her. She has requested that the interest and late payment charges she paid on her 
account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by J D Williams to Miss G. 
The account was opened in August 2015 with Miss G being given an initial credit limit of 
£150. This limit was then increased 7 times, reaching £2000 in October 2016. Miss G 
contacted J D Williams in December 2017 when she was experiencing financial difficulty 
after changing jobs. 
Miss G says shes unhappy that J D Williams allowed her to open an account and 
continued to increase her credit limits when she was experiencing financial difficulty. She 
also says that J D Williams shouldnt have allowed her to open the account given that at 
the time she had a debt management plan in place. 
Based on the information Miss G gave us about her financial circumstances, our 
adjudicator didnt think J D Williams had acted unfairly in the way it managed the 
account. He also thought that, whilst J D Williams hadnt necessarily carried out 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before approving each credit limit 
increase, even had it done so it would likely still have concluded that each credit limit 
increase was affordable. 
As Miss G didnt agree her complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
J D Williams says it acted as a responsible lender when opening Miss Gs account and 
increasing her credit limits. Our adjudicator has set out in some detail why they didnt think 
J D Williams lent to Miss G irresponsibly. 
In making my decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of J D Williamss lending history with 
Miss G, so as to see if there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean 
J D Williams should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Miss Gs credit 
limits.
Having reviewed the complaint myself, including the account history, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator and so dont consider that Ms W lost out due to J D Williams 
actions in relation to her account. I will explain why. 
When Miss G opened her account in August 2015, J D Williams says there were no signs of 
financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, and taking into 
account the low opening credit limit of £150 she was given, I dont think there is anything to 
suggest that it would have been unreasonable for J D Williams to have approved the 
account at this point. Ive kept in mind that Miss G successfully completed her debt 
management plan shortly after opening the account. And whilst J D Williams didnt ask 
Miss G about her income or the debt management plan  which are things that may have 
helped it begin to build a better picture of her financial circumstances at that point - as things 
stand I cant say whether having done so its likely it would have seen that Miss G would 
have difficulty making payments to her new account. 
Ive seen that J D Williams was aware that Miss G had defaulted on borrowing shed taken 
out elsewhere soon after she opened her account. But this alone wouldnt necessarily be 
enough to show or suggest that it shouldnt have provided her with further credit limit 
increases. 
Looking at the series of credit limit increases J D Williams gave Miss G, I agree with our 
adjudicator that it would have been helpful for J D Williams to have found out more about 
Miss Gs financial situation on each occasion so that it could verify her income and 
committed expenditure. But from what Miss G has told us about her income at the time, 
including the bank statements she sent us, had it done so I think its likely it would have 
found that the payments Miss G was making on her account showed it continued to be 
affordable for her. Ive also noticed that, up to the end of 2017, on a number of occasions 
Miss G was able to make payments over the minimum and ensured that her account 
balance didnt exceed the credit limit she was given. J D Williams didnt give Miss G any 
further credit increases after that. 
Miss G told our adjudicator that shed been taking out short term loans and borrowing from 
family members. She also told us about opening a number of separate credit cards in the 
course of 2016. By the time J D Williams further increased her credit limits in August and 
October 2016, Ive seen that Miss G had arranged some further short term lending. Miss G 
started exceeding her credit limit in April 2017, but she was able to continue meeting the 
minimum payments up to November that year.
Ive taken all this into account but I have to consider whether if it had carried out better 
proportionate checks J D Williams would have made a different decision about increasing 
Miss Gs credit limits at this time. From what Ive seen, Miss G was managing to make the 
repayments on this borrowing without getting into difficulty to the extent that J D Williams 
shouldnt have increased her credit limits at this time. In addition, whilst Ive noticed that 
she frequently made use of the overdraft on her bank account, this tended in the main to be 
for relatively short periods before of time before it went back into credit once she got paid 
by her employer.
Overall, I dont think the information we have about Miss Gs financial situation at the time 
is enough for me to be able to find that, had J D Williams carried out additional 
proportionate checks, it likely would have found these credit limit increases to be unsustainable. I say this having carefully reviewed all the information Miss G has sent us 
about her financial situation, including her bank statements. 
It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think J D Williams 
actions, first in opening the account and then in increasing the credit limits between 
2015 and 2016, would have caused Miss G to lose out. I also dont consider Miss Gs 
account history necessarily suggested her financial situation was worsening. And Im not 
persuaded that further enquiries into Miss Gs circumstances would have led 
J D Williams to conclude that it should have taken a course of action that was 
significantly different to what it did. 
So, although I dont think J D Williamss actions were necessarily appropriate in all 
respects, I dont make any award as I dont think Miss G was caused any loss as a result.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman