DRN-2957318
The complaint
Mr M complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage and damage under a hire-purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr M got a car in December 2016 through a BMWFS hire-purchase agreement. In late 2018, 
he sought to exercise his right to voluntarily terminate the hire-purchase agreement. BMWFS 
provided Mr M with a settlement figure, further advising that there might be additional 
charges for excess mileage and any damage above fair wear and tear. Mr M paid the 
settlement figure, but was unhappy that BMWFS has sought further payment. He said he 
was forced into early termination due to safety issues with the car, and that in the 
circumstances the additional charges shouldnt have applied. He also felt BMWFS had 
unfairly charged for damage to the car.
BMWFS wasnt willing to waive the additional charges. It said the contract permitted the 
charges it had made, and that it had made the voluntary termination terms clear when Mr M 
enquired about exercising this right. Mr M had agreed those terms in writing. Mr M wasnt 
happy with BMWFSs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator was satisfied that BMWFS had calculated the excess mileage charge 
correctly and in line with the terms of the hire-purchase agreement, that the damage costs 
werent raised unfairly, and that the charges were not inconsistent with relevant provisions of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA1974). He found that the terms of the agreement were 
clear around the possibility of excess mileage and damage charges being payable on 
voluntary termination.
The investigator didnt think the car safety issue should affect the charges. Although the 
manufacturer issued a recall letter, this was to enable the identified problem to be rectified. 
Mr M instead chose to exercise his right to voluntary terminate the agreement.
Mr M remains unhappy. He maintains that he was forced into termination, saying there had 
been there had been dangerous incidents of the car in question combusting. This had 
happened to someone he knows, and he wasnt willing to take a risk with his car. Mr M 
believes that because of this, he shouldnt be liable for the contract terms. In respect of the 
damage, he says that the car did have scratches but these were no better or worse than on 
cars hed previously returned but not been charged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMWFSs response to Mr Ms complaint focuses on the agreement terms and the 
information it gave him when he voluntarily terminated the arrangements. But Mr Ms 
position is founded more in whether it was fair, in the wider circumstances, to apply the 
additional charges that might ordinarily be payable on voluntary termination. In assessing the 
fairness of the charges hes queried, Ive taken into account the contractual position as well 
as other principles that might be at stake.
Our investigator provided a detailed assessment of whether the charges were consistent 
with the contract and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA 1974). Rather than repeat it here, 
Ill summarise my view of that point.
Mr Ms arrangements with BMWFS were governed by a number of factors. The contract 
between the parties set out the terms on which they agreed to do business. That agreement 
is regulated by the CCA1974 and by the provisions in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), both of which provide a layer of protection to 
consumers to ensure fair treatment.
Under his hire-purchase agreement, while Mr M was entitled to use the car, he agreed that 
use would be subject to certain obligations, such as maintaining and taking care of the car. 
One of the other things Mr M agreed with BMWFS was that he would pay an additional 
amount based on the use he made of the car over and above a specified mileage (annual, 
and for the duration of the agreement). The agreement set out what would happen should 
Mr M return the car with damage beyond fair wear and tear and/or having exceeded the 
specified mileage. Im satisfied it did so clearly, and that its terms werent inconsistent with 
the relevant provisions in the CCA1974.
Mr M doesnt seem to dispute the contractual right of BMWFS to levy charges. He objects 
primarily on the basis that he was forced into terminating the agreement because of car 
safety concerns, and that the circumstances at play make it unfair for BMWFS to apply the 
charges.
In support of his position, Mr M has provided details of media reports and referenced the 
experience of the relative of a close friend. Based on this, I can understand his concern. The 
fact there was a problem identified with certain models  including the car supplied to Mr M  
is evident from the safety recall letter BMWFS sent him. That said, Im not persuaded that 
this issue meant the only option open to Mr M was voluntary termination. Ive little doubt, for 
example, that other BMW owners opted for the remedial work to be carried out.
I can see from correspondence between the parties that Mr M raised this with BMWFS when 
he sought to voluntarily terminate the agreement. Theres no indication that a revised 
agreement was reached between him and BMWFS. Mr M could have pursued his arguments 
at that point, instead of proceeding with voluntary termination and triggering the additional 
costs. But he went ahead with voluntary termination, doing so in the knowledge that BMWFS 
was expecting him to pay the additional charges.
While I accept Mr M believes very strongly that this should mean he shouldnt have to pay 
the charges, Im not minded to agree with him. I dont find that BMWFS is acting unfairly in 
applying charges under terms previously agreed between the parties, that arose out of use 
Mr M (and family members) made of the car. Im conscious that some of Mr Ms comments 
to BMWFS suggest he thinks he might be able to counter-claim against it in respect of the 
car it supplied to him. For clarity, that doesnt appear to have been a claim Mr M has fully 
formulated or brought; nor has BMWFS been called on to respond to it. So it doesnt form 
part of Mr Ms current complaint and I havent addressed it here.
On the issue of the damage assessment, Mr M doesnt argue that he returned the car 
undamaged. He says it was no better or worse than other cars hed previously returned 
without charges. Be that as it may, it doesnt provide me with sufficient reason to say the 
charges were applied incorrectly or unfairly. Mr Ms previous dealings dont offer a precedent 
for the current issue  I think its more appropriate to refer to what the parties agreed. And that was that if Mr M didnt exercise his option to buy the car and returned it  whether under 
voluntary termination or otherwise  he would be liable to pay charges for damage other 
than ordinary wear and tear. 
Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, while I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling and his 
reasons for terminating the agreement, Im not upholding his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman