DRN-1040487
 
The complaint
Miss H complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
against her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In September 2016, Miss H was involved in an accident that wasn't her fault. I understand 
that Miss H was proceeding correctly at a junction when a van failed to give way and collided 
with her car. The van driver fled the scene. Miss H says that the van driver was 
subsequently convicted of three offences relating to the accident. 
Miss H made a claim against her policy. Advantage said that Miss H's car was a total loss 
and dealt with her insured losses. It directed her to solicitors, C, in relation to her uninsured 
losses, including her personal injury and the excess due under her policy.
In January 2018, C reported that Miss H had recovered her uninsured losses. 
In March 2018, Advantage's solicitors, H, issued proceedings in Miss H's name against the 
van driver in order to recover her insured losses and obtained judgment against him. 
In December 2018, H solicitors advised Advantage that there was no reasonable prospect of 
success in recovering Miss H's insured losses. It said that the van driver's insurer 
wasn't obliged to pay Miss H's insured losses, so it had pursued the van driver directly but 
hadn't been able to enforce the judgment, as it had been unable to trace him. 
In January 2019, Advantage wrote to Miss H and told her that it hadn't been able to recover 
its costs from the other driver. It said that it had recorded this as a fault claim. 
Miss H says that Advantage isn't fairly representing what happened here in registering a 
fault claim. She says that her premiums have increased and she'd like Advantage to record 
this as a non-fault claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Advantage took 
appropriate action to try to recover its costs which, unfortunately, weren't successful. So, it 
had to record the claim as a fault claim.
Miss H didn't agree with the investigator. She wondered if the outcome would have been 
different if Advantage had acted more quickly. Miss H asked that an ombudsman look at her 
case, so it was passed to me.  
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considerable sympathy for Miss H's position but I don't think that Advantage acted 
unfairly here. I'll explain why.
It's common ground that Miss H wasn't responsible for the accident that led to the claim. But 
as Advantage made a payment under her policy and didn't recover its costs initially, it 
correctly recorded this as a fault claim. That doesnt mean that Miss H was at fault for 
causing the accident. It simply means that Advantage hadnt recovered all of its costs.
I've looked at whether Advantage did enough to try to recover its costs. I think it did. It issued 
proceedings directly against the van driver, obtained judgment against him and tried to 
enforce that judgment. Unfortunately, it wasn't able to do so initially. Its solicitors advised 
that there was no reasonable prospect of success in enforcing the judgment. I don't think 
that Advantage was wrong to rely on that advice at the time it was given. This matter took 
considerable time but I've seen nothing to suggest that the outcome would have been 
different earlier if Advantage had acted more quickly. 
In response to our further enquires, Advantage has said that its now received its costs from 
the other drivers insurer and recorded the claim as non-fault. It says that there has been 
no impact on Miss Hs no claims discount. Advantage says that Miss H has been paying 
premiums based on a non-fault claim in any event. 
I appreciate that this matter has been confusing and prolonged but I dont think that 
Advantage has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
I'm sorry to disappoint Miss H but, for the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold her 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman