DRN-2594584
The complaint
Ms K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed her account without notice and did not give 
her a reason why. This left Ms K without banking facilities. She would like her account 
reinstated.
Ms K is represented by Ms D
What happened
Ms K has a previous complaint with us regarding the block on her HSBC accounts. The 
details of that complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again. The 
details form the backdrop to this complaint. Because a final decision has been made on that 
case, I am unable to revisit the issues. So, I will only deal with the account closure in this 
complaint.
Ms K had two accounts with HSBC.
The accounts were blocked by HSBC during a review. Following a final decision by this 
service HSBC were directed to unblock the accounts and allow Ms K access to her funds.
Ms Ks accounts were closed with immediate effect on 18 November 2020.Ms K was 
unhappy with this, so she complained to HSBC. 
HSBC have said they are entitled to make a commercial decision to end a relationship with a 
customer and they had done nothing wrong.
The balance in Ms Ks account was originally sent by cheque to her but this was later 
cancelled. The balance was later paid by electronic transfer to another bank account held by 
Ms K on 3 December 2020.
Ms K thought HSBC shouldnt have closed her accounts as they were instructed to unblock 
them and allow her access to her funds. Ms K felt that she was being punished even though 
she had her account blocked for a long time.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said HSBC were entitled to close the 
account in accordance with the terms and conditions either immediately or with notice. 
She said HSBC had sent a letter to let Ms K know of the closure. She recognised that Ms K 
had expected her account to return to normal following the ombudsman decision to unblock 
the account and allow Ms K access to her funds. She said the final decision didnt take away 
HSBCs right to close the account.
Ms K acknowledged that HSBC had a right to close the account. She questioned whether 
HSBC should have given her 60 days notice to allow her to make other arrangements. 
Our investigator responded that HSBC had released her funds to her by cheque and she 
was aware that Ms K had alternative banking arrangements. So, this would reduce the 
impact of the immediate notice.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main thrust of Ms Ks complaint is that HSBC should not have closed her account 
without giving her notice. Ms K through her representative accepts that HSBC is entitled to 
close accounts if it no longer wishes to have someone as a customer. 
Both parties have referred to the terms and conditions of the account. HSBC have said they 
are entitled to close the account with immediate effect. Ms K says that she should have been 
given two months notice.
I have considered the terms and conditions of the account. Having done so I am satisfied 
that the bank is entitled to close Ms Ks account with immediate effect. 
Ms K has suggested that because of the final decision by this service regarding the block on 
her accounts, the bank cant close the account without notice. However, I disagree, despite 
the decision the bank can still have legitimate concerns which may lead them to close the 
account with immediate effect. This is what happened here, and I cant say HSBC have done 
anything wrong.
Ms K has argued that HSBC didnt comply with the decision on the unblocking of her 
account. I appreciate Ms Ks frustration, but I am unable to look at the previous case. If Ms K 
is unhappy with the banks compliance with my previous decision, she can pursue it through 
other means including legal action. However, as our investigator has said there is nothing in 
that decision that prevents HSBC from closing Ms Ks account. 
I appreciate Ms K found this whole episode frustrating, I know she would have expected her 
accounts to return to normal after they were unblocked. But as I have said the bank are 
entitled to review and close the account and looking at the terms and conditions, I dont think 
theyve done anything wrong when they closed Ms Ks accounts with immediate effect.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman