DRN-2745107
The complaint
Mr N complains on behalf of his business P, that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed Ps bank 
account.
What happened
Mr N held a business account with HSBC. Mr N is the director of P.
In June 2019, HSBC completed a safeguarding review of Ps account. This brought to light 
that Mr N had made a payment in June 2018, to one of Ps shareholders who was based in 
Iran. 
HSBC questioned Mr N about the transaction and asked him to provide information about 
the purpose of the transaction. Mr N explained that he had taken £35,000 in cash to Iran to 
pay a shareholders divided. He provided a copy of the recipients bank account statement 
showing the deposit of the money, a statement from the shareholder confirming everything 
hed said about the payment and an accountants verification. Mr N also said hed declared 
the money at the airport in Iran and done everything above board.
 
HSBC reviewed the information Mr N had provided. Following this it decided to close Ps 
account with 60 days notice. And it told Mr N that the transaction had breached the banks 
global sanctions policy. Mr N complained and said the bank hadnt made him aware of its 
global sanctions policy when hed opened Ps account, so it was unfair to close Ps account. 
HSBC responded and said it made the policy available to all its customers on its website. 
And it wasnt obliged to notify each individual company of the policy when accounts were 
opened. HSBC said it shares the policy when it identifies any activity on an account, which 
may breach the policy, which in this case was the dividend payment to a shareholder in Iran.
Mr N wasnt happy with this response. He says HSBC should have told him about the policy 
when he opened the account. Mr P says he has been put to a good deal of inconvenience 
trying to sort things out with HSBC and arranging a new bank account for his company. So, 
he wants the bank to pay compensation and apologise.
One of our investigators looked into Ps complaint. She said the bank hadnt done anything 
wrong when it had closed Ps account. And had followed its processes correctly. So, she 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N disagreed. He said its unfair for HSBC to close Ps 
account for breaching a policy he hadnt known about.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Ps complaint is that Mr N says he the bank didnt make him aware of the its 
global sanctions policy, so he thinks its unfair of the bank to close Ps account.
As the investigator has already explained, HSBC has a wide variety of obligations it must 
follow when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are ongoing and are not 
only relevant to when an account is opened. In Ps case, HSBC reviewed Ps account in line 
with its sanctions policy  this was prompted when Mr N removed £35,000 from Ps account 
and took it to Iran to pay a shareholder.
Sanctions can be broad and relate to countries, individuals, trade and transactions. HSBC is 
expected to take measures to comply with current sanctions, which means it has extensive 
things it needs to be aware of and monitor. Sanctions policies are also just one of the many 
things HSBC must consider to ensure its doing what it should. And if it didnt review 
accounts and the activity taking place on them, it could risk serious penalties. So, having a 
sanctions policy to mitigate against potential risks isnt itself wrong.
 
Mr N took money out of Ps account to Iran, a country subject to sanctions. HSBC werent 
aware of what Mr N did with the money until the bank questioned him as part of its 
safeguarding review. So, whilst I appreciate Mr Ns he says he wasnt aware of the banks 
sanctions policy until it was pointed out to him, I dont find it unreasonable that the bank 
didnt notify him of the policy until it had cause to do so. HSBC has explained that this was 
its standard procedure and I accept that it was. Thats in line with what most banks would do 
in the same situation. I can also see that information regarding HSBCs sanctions policy is 
available on the banks website, which was accessible to Mr N. So, I dont think HSBC has 
acted unfairly by not making Mr N personally aware of its sanctions policy.
Mr N has pointed out that HSBC notifies its customers of changes to its fees and tariffs so 
its not acceptable that it doesnt apply the same level of communication regarding its 
sanctions policy. Firstly, HSBC isnt obliged to provide this information to Mr N. Ive also 
considered what would have happened if HSBC had given Mr N individual information about 
its sanctions policy, but as Mr N has already told us his company wasnt able to send money 
to Iran, his only option was to personally take cash to the shareholder. So, on that basis 
even if the bank had given Mr N more information and drawn his attention to its sanctions 
policy, I think its likely Mr N wouldve still gone ahead and taken the money out to Iran. And 
that hed be in the same position he finds himself in now.
I then turn to HSBCs decision to close Ps account. The terms and conditions of the account 
allow HSBC to end its relationship provided it gives at least 60 days notice. HSBC like other 
banks, carries out regular reviews of its customer accounts. And on this occasion, it decided 
it no longer wanted to offer P banking facilities. This is something the bank is entitled to do 
as part of the terms of the account. So, whilst I appreciate this caused Mr N, as director of P, 
inconvenience the bank was entitled to close the account as its already done. So, it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to award P compensation.
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for P when HSBC closed its account. So, I 
realise Mr N will be disappointed by my decision. But overall, I dont believe HSBC acted 
unreasonably or treated P unfairly in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Sharon KerrisonOmbudsman