DRN-3726430
The complaint
Mr W complains because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim under his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W holds a travel insurance policy, underwritten by UKI, as a benefit of his bank account. 
Mr W was due to travel abroad on 24 April 2020. Mr Ws flights and a private tour were 
booked as part of a package with a tour operator. Mr W was also due to travel on a cruise 
while he was abroad, which had been booked directly with a cruise provider. 
On 19 February 2020, the cruise provider cancelled the cruise due to disruption caused by 
Covid-19, and refunded Mr W in full. As Mr W says the cruise was the primary purpose of 
the trip, he cancelled the package with his tour operator on 26 February 2020. He was given 
a partial refund.
Subsequently, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 as a 
pandemic. And, on 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO) advised against all non-essential travel abroad due to the circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19. This advice remained in force on Mr Ws intended departure date and 
throughout the duration of his planned trip. 
Mr W made a claim under his travel insurance policy with UKI for the remaining money 
which his tour operator hadnt refunded. UKI initially declined the claim and sent Mr W a final 
response letter dated 21 July 2020. 
UKI said Mr Ws policy only covered costs that werent recoverable from elsewhere. It 
directed Mr W back to his travel agent and credit card provider. UKI later referred the matter 
for consideration under the Legal Costs section of Mr Ws insurance policy. The appointed 
solicitors said it didnt think Mr Ws tour operator was obliged to give him a refund and said 
he should approach UKI again with a copy of its legal advice. In the meantime, Mr Ws credit 
card provider had said he was unable to make a Section 75 claim for the money paid to the 
tour operator. 
In June 2021, UKI told Mr W his claim was being reviewed. Mr W then brought the matter to 
the attention of our service. UKI objected to our service considering Mr Ws complaint, on the 
basis that it had been brought to us outside of our time-limits. On 23 August 2022, an 
ombudsman made a jurisdiction decision that our service could consider Mr Ws complaint. 
The case was passed to an investigator to look into the circumstances of what happened. 
UKI then told us that it didnt think Mr Ws claim was covered under the cancellation section 
of his policy for different reasons to those set out in its final response letter of 21 July 2020. 
Our investigator said she didnt think UKI had acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining the 
claim for these reasons. Mr W didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint 
has been referred to me to make a final decision about the merits of the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these 
rules into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr Ws policy, in common with most (if not all) travel insurance policies on the market, 
doesnt cover claims for costs which are recoverable from elsewhere. But, given the 
circumstances of Mr Ws claim, I think it should have been reasonably apparent to UKI from 
the outset that Mr W would have little likelihood of successfully recovering the money he was 
claiming for from either his tour operator or his credit card provider. And I dont think it was 
reasonable for UKI to require Mr W to try to take legal action through his Legal Costs cover 
before considering whether his claim was otherwise covered under the cancellation section 
of his travel insurance policy. 
Overall, its clear that Mr W made protracted attempts to comply with UKIs requests to 
obtain evidence that he couldnt recover the costs he was claiming for from elsewhere. I 
dont think it was necessary or reasonable for UKI to have asked Mr W to do this.
However, no insurance policy provides cover for every situation, and Mr Ws policy only 
covers cancellation for specific, listed, insured reasons. The only insured reasons which I 
think could potentially be relevant to Mr Ws claim are cancellation as a result of:
8. FCO travel advice All travel: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against 
All travel to your destination. The advice must have come into force after you 
opened your  current account, or booked your trip whichever is later.
9. FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start 
date the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to 
your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your  
current account, or booked your trip whichever is later.
10. Natural disaster: you are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid 
accommodation due to the immediately surrounding area being badly affected by a 
natural disaster.  
While I can understand why Mr W cancelled his trip on 26 February 2020, he didnt do so for 
any of the above listed reasons. The FCDO wasnt advising against travel to Mr Ws 
intended destination on this date, and Mr Ws trip was cancelled more than 28 days before 
its intended start date. The policy defines natural disaster to include a medical pandemic, 
but Covid-19 hadnt been declared as a pandemic at the time Mr W cancelled the trip. 
This means I dont think Mr Ws claim is covered under the terms and conditions of his policy 
with UKI.
Ive also considered whether I think there are any fair and reasonable grounds upon which I 
could ask UKI to accept Mr Ws claim regardless, outside of a strict interpretation of the 
policy wording. But I dont think there are. 
I understand Mr W feels he ultimately saved UKI money by cancelling the trip when he did, 
and he says the booked flights never took place. While I can appreciate Mr Ws point of view, I dont agree that UKI would have been liable for the whole amount paid to the tour 
operator if Mr W hadnt cancelled when he did. Although the FCDO did subsequently advise 
against all but essential travel before Mr Ws intended departure date, if Mr W had waited to 
cancel his trip until closer to the time of his departure (for example, until the FCDO advised 
against all but essential travel and/or more wide-spread restrictions on movement were 
imposed by the government in his intended destination) it seems likely that the tour operator 
would have been forced to cancel the trip. 
This would have entitled Mr W to a full refund from the tour operator under the Package 
Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018. In that scenario, UKI would have 
had no liability at all for the claim. So, I think Mr W disadvantaged UKI by cancelling the 
holiday when he did. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W. I appreciate he found himself in a difficult position when his 
cruise was cancelled, and that his claim is for a considerable amount of money, but I dont 
think his claim is covered under the terms and conditions of his policy. And, I dont think 
there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask UKI to accept his claim.
It would undoubtedly have been more helpful if UKI had set out the correct reason why Mr 
Ws claim wasnt covered under his policy from the outset. And, I dont think UKI handled the 
claim promptly. But these arent reasons upon which I can fairly base a decision to direct UKI 
to pay a claim which isnt otherwise covered under the policy terms and conditions. Overall, 
having considered all the circumstances of this case, I wont be asking UKI to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman