DRN-1682410
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr R. The car here 
was around nine years old and had completed about 55,000 miles.
The independent engineers view was based on whether the car had, or was developing, the 
fault with the crankshaft at the point it was supplied. He didnt think that was likely to be the 
case and he is an expert on these matters. But Id agree with the investigator that his report 
is contradictory. Whilst he suggests the problem wasnt present at the point of supply he 
goes on to explain that the cause of the failure was metal fatigue that the fault is progressive 
and, will have developed over a period of time. Mr R only had the car for a few months 
before the failure happened and he appears to have completed only about 4,000 miles. I 
think its therefore most likely the failure was developing during that time as its a very 
limited portion of the cars overall age and mileage. So, I think it is fair to hold Close Brothers 
responsible for remedying the situation.
But, even if Im wrong about that, the relevant legislation also asks that we consider whether 
a vehicle has proven suitably durable when we consider if its been of satisfactory quality.
Whilst I can understand that there would be some wear and tear on a car of this age and 
mileage I dont think a reasonable person would consider a significant engine failure such as 
this, after only 59,000 miles, to suggest the car was suitably durable. I think Mr R was 
entitled to expect significantly more mileage from the engine. And Id agree with the 
investigator that, as the failure is so significant, and the repair so extensive, the best course 
of action would be to now allow Mr R to reject the car and for Close Brothers to end the 
finance agreement.
Putting things right
Mr R has been inconvenienced by this matter. Hes had to return the car for repairs and has 
had to progress the complaint when I think it could have been resolved earlier for him. In 
those circumstances Close Brothers should compensate him and I would agree that they 
should pay him £100.
Its clear Mr R has had no use of the car since the engine failed in January 2020. So, Close 
Brothers should refund any finance instalments hes made since that time.
They should also refund Mr Rs deposit as hell need it to fund an alternative vehicle and 
they should pay interest on any refunds. Mr R has been deprived of that money whilst 
funding a car that was of unsatisfactory quality.
I understand that Mr R has complained about further problems with the car that he says 
have been caused whilst the vehicle has been stored, inspected and stripped down. Its 
likely theyll no longer be a concern to Mr R as the car is being returned to Close Brothers as 
a result of this decision. But, for completeness, I would add that if Mr R still thought there 
was a need to have those concerns considered, Close Brothers would need an opportunity 
to respond to them first. And, as theyve not had that opportunity Ill not comment on them 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
cancel the finance agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr R;
return any deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum to this refund from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
return any finance instalments that Mr R has paid from, and including, January 2020. 
Add 8% simple interest per annum to this refund from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
pay Mr R £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to the credit reference agencies 
with regard to this agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Phillip McMahonOmbudsman