DRN-3744098
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs S complain that QIC Europe Ltd has not offered to settle a claim under their
buildings insurance policy fairly.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr H and Mrs Ss daughter dropped something onto one of their kitchen 
floor tiles, causing it to crack. Mr H and Mrs S contacted QIC to make a claim on their 
insurance policy. 
After inspecting the damage, QIC said the crack could be fixed by one of its contractors,
which would involve the hairline crack being filled and the repaired area painted over. Mr H
and Mrs S werent happy with this suggestion. They told QIC they have disabled children
and were told by the contractor that the material they would use to fill and paint the crack
would not be slip resistant, so the tile would be a slip hazard to their children.
Mr H and Mrs S say QIC asked them to get a quote to have the damage repaired.
Mr H and Mrs S provided a quote for the entire downstairs of their home to be replaced
because they had these tiles running into every room. Mr H and Mrs S said it would be
difficult to replace only the cracked tile and they were unlikely to find a match with their
remaining tiles.
QIC said only a small surface area of the tile was cracked, the proposed repair to the tile
would not negate the non-slip finish of the tile. QIC offered Mr H and Mrs S £304.40 in
settlement of their claim, less their policy excess of £250  so, £54.40 after the excess is
deducted. In addition, QIC said Mr H and Mrs S could pay up to £60.88 for Value Added Tax
on an invoice provided by a VAT registered contractor. If Mr H and Mrs S didnt want to
accept its cash offer, they could choose to allow its contactor to complete the repairs to the
cracked tile  and Mr H and Mrs S would have to pay their policys £250 excess.
Unhappy with this response, Mr H and Mrs S referred their complaint to our Service. One of
our Investigators reviewed the damaged tile and didnt think it was likely the non-slip nature
of the tiles would be affected. The Investigator thought it was reasonable for QIC to offer to
repair the damaged tile or offer its cash settlement.
Mr H and Mrs S disagreed, reiterating the repair to the tile would be a slip hazard to their
children. So, this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Mr H and Mrs Ss policy covers accidental damage to their flooring. The
question for me to decide whether QICs proposal to repair the cracked tile is reasonable.
Ive reviewed the photos of the damaged tile and agree with QICs description of the damage
as a hairline crack. Given the crack is a hairline one, I think its reasonable for QIC to rely on
its contractors professional opinion that the repair would not negate the tiles non-slip finish.
I think its reasonable for QIC to offer only to repair the cracked tile as its proposed, subject
to Mr H and Mrs S paying their policys excess.
Mr H and Mrs Ss policy also allows them to choose for QIC to pay them a cash settlement
for the same amount it would have cost QIC to use its preferred contractor. QIC has given
Mr H and Mrs S this option, and its given a settlement figure. Ive seen no evidence to
suggest this figure is unreasonable so Ive no reason to ask QIC to review this offer at
present.
I understand Mr H and Mrs S are worried the repaired tile would pose a slip hazard to their
children. But whilst the materials used to repair the hairline crack would not be slip-resistant,
the surface area of the crack that is very small, so the repaired area would be very small 
because of this, QICs contractor says the overall non-slip finish of the tile should not be
compromised by the repair. So, I dont think QIC was obliged to offer to replace further tiles
as theyve asked for, at this stage. I cant consider hypothetical scenarios  the tile has not
been repaired, so I cant say what should happen if it were to become a slip hazard.
However, I note Mr H and Mrs Ms policy it guarantees repairs by its approved suppliers for
12 months. So, if Mr H and Mrs S choose to allow QIC to arrange for the cracked tile to be
repaired, the repair will be guaranteed for 12 months. In the event Mr H and Mrs S were
unhappy with a repair carried out by one of QICs suppliers, they could raise this with QIC.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I think QIC Europe Ltds response to Mr H and Mrs Ss
claim was reasonable, so I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs S to
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman