DRN-2209028
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) 
are charging them a fee for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim they said 
they hadnt authorised FTR to make.
For ease of reading Ill just refer only to Mr C in my decision.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr C was told he had a successful PPI claim with one of his lenders Ill call 
L. Mr C said he hadnt made a claim with lender L but took it that theyd investigated 
following guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that a complaint can be 
considered based only on an enquiry and without the need for a formal complaint to be 
made. And lender L offered Mr C compensation for the successful claim.
Over the next couple of months Mr C said he became aware of emails from FTR asking him 
to pay their success fee. And on checking his offer letter from lender L he saw that there 
was a FTR reference on it. Mr C complained to FTR has he said he hadnt authorised them 
to act on his behalf. And he hadnt fully completed FTRs on line application process. 
FTR said Mr C agreed in July 2019 to use their services. And had signed a letter of authority 
(LoA) authorising them to act on his behalf to pursue mis-sold PPI claims with lender L.
They said further documentation wasnt needed for Mr Cs claim as lender L had accepted 
his claim from the information, theyd sent to them. As lender L agreed Mr C had been mis-
sold PPI Mr Cs claim was successful, and Mr C hadnt cancelled his agreement with them 
so their success fee was justified.
Mr C said he didnt remember signing any documents and the date that was on the LoA 
wasnt his handwriting. He also said he hadnt seen any information about FTR charging a 
fee, as the application was about a free PPI check. Mr C referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said FTRs fee was justified as Mr C had a successful claim. And he said 
FTR had acted fairly and in line with their terms and conditions. 
Mr C didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my 
decision on what I think most likely happened. 
I can understand Mr Cs frustration as he doesnt think he authorised FTR to act on his 
behalf. And that he hadnt responded to FTRs request for documents to be completed and 
signed.
 
In making my decision I need to determine whether Mr C had authorised FTR to act on his 
behalf. And if he had, whether they knew he no longer wanted them to work for him. And to 
see whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr C.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for lender L in July 
2019. The personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mr C has 
given this service. Mr C doesnt dispute he started to complete the on-line application but 
doesnt agree that he signed and submitted it.
So, Ive looked at the web journey process. FTR  has shown the screens Mr C would have 
gone through. The screen shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
 *Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will 
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24% 
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims  as per the Terms of Engagement. 
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterix linked it to the 
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens asked for information from Mr C about his personal details and his lenders. 
On completing the application, a LoA was generated, populated with this information. And 
this could only be submitted with a signature. There wasnt a requirement to add a date. 
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the 
LoA Mr C had agreed to them. FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
And go on to say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received 
a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
I can see FTR notified Mr C that PPI had been found and asked him to complete and sign a 
PPI questionnaire. And in December 2019 an email was sent to Mr C that said:
You HAVE Paid PPI Claim Your PPI Refund NOW! 
And again asked Mr C to complete the PPI questionnaire. The email had a FTR customer 
number for him. And said that he might not get a refund if he didnt complete the 
questionnaire. I think if Mr C was certain he hadnt asked FTR to work for him, he could have 
taken this opportunity to ask FTR about their involvement. Mr C has said he found the emails from FTR in his spam folder, but I cant hold  FTR responsible for Mr C not reading their 
emails. The claim may not have been formalised according to Mr C, but its not enough that 
he simply disengaged from the process to consider this as him cancelling his agreement with 
them. I cant see any evidence that despite opportunities for Mr C to speak to or get in touch 
with FTR, it wasnt until after his claim was successful that he questioned their involvement. 
FTR has said that their fee is justified because lender L had auto converted Ms Cs claim 
without the need for a formal complaint to be submitted. I havent seen any evidence that Mr 
C made a claim direct to lender L. And they wrote to both Mr C and FTR about the 
outcome of their investigation and I think this shows they saw FTR as being Mr Cs 
representative. Im satisfied the success of Mr Cs claim was based on the PPI enquiry made 
by FTR.
The agreement Mr C had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And as outlined above the 
fee FTR charged was made clear on the on-line screen information.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision. But I think he had authorised FTR to act 
on his behalf and he hadnt cancelled that agreement before his claim was successful. I can 
see Mr C was unhappy about FTR chasing him for their fees but as I think their fee is 
justified I cant say theyve acted unfairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman