DRN-3816746
The complaint
Miss B complains that First Response Finance Ltd (First Response) lent to her 
irresponsibly and didnt carry out sufficient checks to ensure she could repay the loan. 
What happened
Miss B took out a loan for £2,500 in August 2018. The loan was for a term of 24 months with 
the monthly instalments being £172.74. Miss B repaid the loan without missing any 
payments but felt First Response didnt carry out sufficient checks and, had they done so, 
they wouldve identified the loan wasnt affordable. So, Miss B complained. First Response 
responded and explained theyd carried out sufficient checks and didnt uphold the 
complaint.   
Our investigator looked into things for Miss B. She thought First Responses lending decision 
wasnt unfair. Miss B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
First Response needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure that Miss B could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think First Response carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that First Response needed to complete shouldve been 
dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of 
the credit and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the 
sources of information First Response may have wanted to consider as part of making a 
proportionate assessment. 
It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers to whether the information 
the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional information from the customer and 
any other sources of information to use.    
   
First Response is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, First Response say 
their affordability assessment is made up of four parts  these being 1) Stability, 2) Ability,  
3) Sustainability and 4) Intent. The information First Response have provided shows they 
took into account information provided by Miss B in her application, Miss Bs employment 
status, income and expenditure and any existing credit accounts and adverse information 
showing on Miss Bs credit file. While I agree First Response took a range of factors into 
consideration, in the circumstances of this case, I dont agree the checks went far enough  
and Ill explain why.  
I can see Miss B explained the loan was for home improvements. First Response looked at 
Miss Bs wage slip and calculated an average net monthly income of £2,363.32. They also 
checked Miss Bs credit file and calculated total outgoings on existing credit accounts of 
£764. First Response also deducted a sum for expenditure which was based on household 
spending data from the Office for National Statistics. This arrived at a figure of £1,002.32 
which First Response treated as Miss Bs disposable income. I can see however they then 
applied a 25% deduction for prudence to cover any unknown or unexpected costs Miss B 
might incur. This arrived at a figure of £751.74 which First Response treated as Miss Bs 
affordability capacity. So, the monthly payment of £172.74 represents 17% of Miss Bs 
disposable income and 23% of her affordability capacity. 
Ive looked at the information from Miss Bs credit file which First Response took into 
consideration and this shows how Miss B was managing other active credit accounts. It 
shows, for a number of these accounts, Miss B was very close to her agreed limit. For 
example, theres two credits cards where Miss B was at 99% of her available limit, another 
credit card where she was at 89% of her available limit, and two mail order accounts and a 
store card at 87% of her available limit.    
The information also shows First Response were aware Miss B had a store card which 
defaulted around 18 months before her loan application and a mail order account defaulted 
around two years before. The information shows, at the point of default, the store card and 
mail order account had a balance of £218 and £204 respectively  with monthly repayments 
being made. The information shows the store card was being repaid at £7 per month and the 
mail order account at £6 per month. 
In these circumstances, and taking into account what the information showed, I think this 
shouldve prompted First Response to find out more about Miss Bs financial position. First 
Response had calculated Miss Bs monthly disposable income as being £1,002.32. Given 
that her credit file showed a number of accounts approaching the maximum limit and also 
very small payments being made towards two defaulted accounts each month, I think this 
shouldve led to First Response questioning why Miss Bs disposable income wasnt being 
used towards either lowering the balance on the active accounts or clearing the defaults. 
First Response had information about Miss Bs outgoings for her active accounts, but I think 
they shouldve looked to see what other expenses were being incurred by Miss B and asked 
to see her bank statements. I think that wouldve been reasonable and proportionate here.
So, I cant say the checks carried out by First Response were reasonable and proportionate.  
Given that I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks were completed in this case, 
the next point Ive considered is, if reasonable and proportionate checks had been 
completed, would they more likely than not have shown that Miss B was more likely than not 
unable to sustainably repay what she was being lent. 
To help decide this, Ive looked at Miss Bs bank statements for the three months leading to 
her application for the loan as I believe these would reasonably have been available had 
First Response asked for them. This shows Miss Bs average expenses (taking account of 
credit repayments, direct debits and utility bills) was around £1,900 per month. This is more 
than the £1,361 expenses First Response took into account. Deducting the £1,900 from  
Miss Bs net monthly income provides a disposable income of £463.32. And, in following 
First Responses own process in applying a 25% deduction for prudence, this gives an affordability capacity figure of £347.49. So, taking these figures into account  the monthly 
repayment of £172.74 represents 37% of Miss Bs disposable income and just under 50% of 
her affordability capacity. I think this would suggest the loan repayments werent affordable 
for Miss B. 
That said, the bank statements also show an average of £367 per month being paid to    
Miss B  which I understand is a contribution from her flatmate towards living costs. So, 
given that I believe it was fair in the circumstances for First Response to look at these three 
bank statements, I think its fair and reasonable for them to have taken into account any 
payments being made to Miss B. So, this provides a disposable income of £830.32 and an 
affordability capacity figure of £714.49. So, the monthly repayment of £172.74 represents 
21% of Miss Bs disposable income and 24% of her affordability capacity. In terms of actual 
figures following deduction of the monthly repayment, Miss B wouldve been left with a 
disposable income of £657.58 and an affordability capacity amount of £541.75. 
Taking this into account, I cant say First Responses decision to lend was unfair. I think the 
information they shouldve considered would reasonably have led them to make a decision 
that Miss B could make repayments without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other 
commitments and without having to borrow further. 
I note Miss B says she didnt have any arrangement with her flatmate to contribute towards 
living costs and it was on an as and when basis. I do acknowledge Miss Bs points and I 
agree her bank statements show the payments from her flatmate werent being made as a 
monthly standing order. But, given that payments have been made each month over the 
three months bank statements Ive seen, I think it wouldve been reasonable for First 
Response to treat Miss Bs flatmates contribution as a regular payment. So, I think its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to take the payments into consideration when looking 
at Miss Bs disposable income. 
I can see Miss B has made reference to other factors relating to her financial circumstances 
which she believes shouldve highlighted to First Response that she wouldnt be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. But nothing Ive seen suggests First Response 
needed to make any checks beyond those they carried out  and those I think they shouldve 
carried out. The checks carried out by a lender need to be reasonable and proportionate. 
And, what constitutes reasonable and proportionate in one case might not necessarily satisfy 
the test in another case. So, in some cases, if there is evidence to suggest a lender 
shouldve had wider concerns, then we might say they needed to carry out further checks 
and perhaps have looked at further information. In this case, I havent seen any information 
which I think shouldve led First Response to request any further information beyond the 
checks they carried out and Miss Bs bank statements. I think this was reasonable and 
proportionate to show Miss B would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable manner.  
  
I understand Miss B will be disappointed and I am sorry to learn about her current financial 
position. But, I have to base my decision on what the information wouldve shown First 
Response at the time they agreed to give Miss B a loan. And, for the reasons Ive explained, 
I dont think they lent irresponsibly. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Paviter DhaddyOmbudsman