DRN-3881474
The complaint
Mr T complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited, unfairly turned down his claim under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
r and Mrs T purchased points from a holiday operator I will call D in March 2016. The total 
cost was £12,300, which was paid for by way of a loan from Shawbrook. The loan was in Mr 
Ts name and so for simplicity I will refer to him as the purchaser in this decision. Mr T had 
made several purchases of timeshare products with D from 2004 onwards. However these 
were not funded by Shawbrook and are not the subject of this complaint.
In March 2021, Mr T, using a professional representative (S), made a claim against 
Shawbrook under s.75 and s.140A CCA for problems he said he had had with the timeshare.
In summary, he said:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to him.
He was told that purchasing the fractional points was the only way to exit the existing 
timeshare. This was incorrect.
He was advised he could exit the fractional points membership in a finite number of 
years, but this only applies if a buyer can be found.
There was a breach of contract. He says the contract states he will receive the net 
proceeds of the sale of the property, but nothing in the documentation confirms he 
has any ownership of the property.
The management agreement wording indicates that his interest will continue for 
another 15 years or more and he has no control over the management costs. S 
argues that the relationship is unfair
Shawbrook rejected the claim on the basis that it was made out of time. It also explained that 
Mr T had not bought fractional membership, but rather he had initially acquired a floating 
timeshare week and then surrendered this for membership and additional points. It said he 
had never acquired any fractional points. It also set out a list of all the holiday bookings 
made by Mr T.
S brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. S argued that s 32 Limitation Act allowed for an 
extension of the time limit in cases of fraud. It said that there had been deliberate and gross 
misrepresentation. It said Mr T only realised he had been mis-sold the timeshare in 2019.
Our investigator thought that the claim Mr T made for misrepresentation under s.75 CCA and 
that under s 140A had been made in time as required by the provisions in the LA. However 
he did not think there was evidence to suggest there had been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
S disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. It said Mr T felt 
trapped by C and the loan would last until 2029 beyond Mr Ts retirement age. The credit 
assessment had not been sufficient and had not taken account of his retirement. It said C 
had not provided evidence of its agreement with Shawbrook made it suggested there may 
be a conflict of interest. It also appealed to a sense of fairness rather than looking at the 
detail of the law.
It also said that C changed its relinquishment policy in 2015 whereby a member could end 
their agreement by paying two years management fees. That meant there was no reason for 
the final purchase of points to have been made. It added that Mr T had been told that he was 
making an investment in property but he had no rights over property. S expressed at some 
length how it believed the value of the product had been misrepresented. It also made points 
relating to the earlier purchases. I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
Under the rules that govern how I decide complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice.
I must also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome. So although I have read everything that has been said and provided, I may not 
address every point that has been raised. I must explain as I have done above that I am only 
considering the purchase of points made in 2016 and none of the previous purchases made 
by Mr T. That means some of the arguments put forward by S are of little relevance
Section 75
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation.
S 56 and 140A
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any negotiations 
between Mr T and C are deemed to have been conducted by C as an agent for Shawbrook. 
This includes any representations made by C and any other dealings between them.
The statutory agency created by section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of 
section 140A as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of C will be deemed to be the 
responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding 
whether an unfair relationship exists between you and the lender.
The claim has been made in time and so I am able to consider the complaint about Shawbrooks rejection of it. I can only consider the matter which was the subject of the 
complaint i.e. the March 2016 purchase. If Mr T has a separate complaint about the
preceding purchases then he will have to make that to the lender concerned before this
service can consider it.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been made and that false 
statement of fact induced a consumer to purchase the goods or services. In order to find a 
misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof that a false statement of fact has been 
made and it needs to be decided that that false statement induced the consumer to enter 
into the agreement. I would add that I have taken note of the relevant extract from Chitty 
referred to by S in its representations.
I cannot say what was actually said during the meeting when the purchase was made. I am 
aware that sales representatives will prioritise the positives of the product they are selling, 
but that does not mean that this amounts to a false statement of fact. Much of what is said 
can be put down to the expression of an opinion or a view.
As our investigator has explained that the sales aids and training used by C give us some 
insight into what they would likely have seen and been told during the verbal part of the sale.
These aids highlight an imbalance in information, favouring the emotional and tangible 
benefits people would receive if they became a member and limited information on how the 
product functioned and how much it would ultimately cost across the term once maintenance 
fees and associated finance were factored in.
These aids are carefully structured and so if properly used the likelihood of 
misrepresentation occurring is reduced. I havent seen sufficient information to suggest the 
product wasnt suitable for Mr T. Shawbrook has also set out the 10 reservations made by
Mr T between July 2016 and October 2017. That would suggest that he was not seeking a 
way out of the earlier agreement, but rather was seeking to make use of the holidays that C 
offered.
I cannot say what actually happened and while I do not doubt their recollection I cannot say 
that this is sufficient to allow me to overlook the documentary material.
In summary there is nothing in the documentation I have seen which was signed by Mr T 
that shows any misrepresentation.
S 140A Unfair Relationship
When considering if there was an unfair relationship I have taken due note of the sale and 
the process used by C. I do not consider it likely that court would conclude that Cs actions 
as an agent of CFS generated an unfair debtor  creditor relationship.
I appreciate that according to S Mr T was pressurised into taking out the agreement. I can 
understand why they have taken that view. My understanding is that these sales meetings 
ran on for many hours and the representatives of C would highlight the benefits of the 
product.
However, this service has learned that if a consumer said they did not want to purchase on the day, that representatives staff were instructed to take them back to their accommodation 
and the sales meeting would end. I have no doubt that the techniques used would have 
made saying no more difficult, but this does not mean that it was impossible to decline the 
offer.
I have also taken note of the fact that this was last of four holiday product purchases made 
by Mr T and so I am not persuaded that he was unaware of what he was purchasing or of 
the associated costs.
In summary I do not have sufficient evidence to show Mr and Mrs T were unreasonably 
pressurised to sign the agreement.
It is possible that the disclosure of information about the product couldve been clearer. So, 
Ive looked at whether this led to such an imbalance of information between the parties, that 
it gave rise to an unfair relationship.
I believe Mr T was aware he was buying a holiday product with C. The paperwork set out the 
length of the contract term, how annual fees would be calculated, that it was subject to 
availability and should not be viewed as a financial investment.
I believe C supplied brochures that covered this information. So, while the sales meeting 
mayve been overly weighted towards the aspirational lifestyle owning a timeshare could 
provide, I dont think the gap in knowledge between what T thought he was acquiring and 
what he actually got was so significant so as to suggest it could give rise to an unfair 
relationship.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. Shawbrook 
has told S and this service that the rate was 1% and so it paid £123. I think its unlikely a 
court would find that the failure to disclose commission in this case created an unfair 
relationship under s.140A.
On balance I am not presided there is sufficient evidence to show that it would be likely a 
court would find there was an unfair relationship as set out in s 140A.
Were the proper checks carried out when Shawbrook agreed to lend to Mr T
S says Shawbrook failed to carry out proper credit checks when lending to him. Even if I 
were to conclude that Shawbrook or its agents didnt carry out the proper checks for 
creditworthiness and affordability when arranging a loan for Mr T, I would still need to be 
satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for him and/or that he lost out as a result, in order 
to uphold this part of their complaint. Ive seen nothing to suggest there were any 
affordability issues, such as missed payments or other financial difficulties at the time of the 
loan.
I would add that I have not seen any persuasive evidence that the checks which were 
carried out were insufficient.
Conclusion 
While I have taken note of the wider issues relating to holiday products set out by S I do not 
consider I can uphold this complaint.
Both parties acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision, but had nothing to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disagreed with my provisional decision I can only conclude that it should 
stand unamended and as such the complaint is not upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman