DRN-2107445
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd has failed to disclose the true cost of the life 
cover which was attached to his personal pension policy (PPP). Mr B has said that he was 
under the impression that a small amount would be deducted from his pension contribution 
each month, but the reality has been that a significant proportion has been taken.
Mr B said this wasnt disclosed on the annual statements hes been receiving and hed like to 
be compensated for the high level of deductions which were being taken without his 
knowledge.
What happened
Mr B established his PPP in May 1992, with an initial monthly life cover cost of £3.34 for a 
sum assured of £45,000  but a notional deduction into a reserve fund of £19.98. The policy 
operated by deducting the higher amount and investing this into the reserve fund, which was 
designed to build up over time to cover the higher deductions taken in later life when the 
deductions necessary for the cost of the life cover would be higher.
The actual overall deduction, including that which would invested in the reserve fund, was 
based upon a number of factors, including mortality rates and projected investment returns, 
and so the deduction wouldnt necessarily be a consistent amount.
Zurich has said that statements were sent to Mr B from 2003 to 2019 and that it had the 
correct address when each one was issued.
When Mr B received confirmation from Zurich in May 2019 which confirmed the amount he 
was paying for life cover - at that point a sum assured of £40,000 - he raised his complaint 
as set out above.
Zurich responded, explaining how the policy had operated, and said that the deductions 
were made in line with the terms of the policy. It conceded, however, that it could have been 
clearer in its statements as to the actual amounts being deducted for life cover and it offered 
Mr B £100 in respect of this.
Mr B remained dissatisfied with Zurichs offer, however, and submitted his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered the matter and, as Zurich was unable to provide copies of the 
statements it had issued, asked Mr B to submit these. He duly did so and the investigator 
then set out the following conclusions:
She agreed with Mr B that, although Zurich gave details of the contribution history 
through the preceding year, and also said that this included contributions for life 
cover, it didnt actually specify what those life cover contributions were.
But she also noted that, in its final response letter, Zurich said that Mr B changed the 
sum assured in 1999, 2002 and 2007. 
She had a copy of the confirmation letter sent to Mr B in 2007, which detailed the 
amount which was being deducted for life cover - £17.76 per month for a sum 
assured of £40,000.
She acknowledged that Mr B didnt recall receiving the letter, but also noted that it 
began with the phrase Following your recent request..
The investigator couldnt be certain that Zurich had written to Mr B in similar terms 
each time he changed the sum assured, but she was satisfied that Zurich had made 
Mr B aware of the cost of the life cover in 2007.
However, the investigator also thought that the statements werent clear insofar as 
not specifying the amount which was being deducted for life cover. 
She noted that Zurich had offered to pay Mr B £100 in respect of this, but she 
thought that it should increase this to £300 to reflect the trouble and upset caused to 
Mr B.
Mr B disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
He couldnt find a copy of the 2007 letter in his records. But the detail in any case 
appeared to buried in small print which would be difficult to find.
When the life cover needed to be increased to protect his mortgage, he was told by 
the adviser that it would only increase his contributions by a few pounds. But an 
increase from a few pounds to £45 on the same policy in such a short amount of time 
wouldnt have been acceptable to him.
Legislation had made it a requirement for all costings to be detailed in annual 
statements so that there was no possibility of missing it.
He believed the pension policy to be predominantly just that  not a life cover policy.
He hadnt needed life cover for well over a decade, but hadnt cancelled the policy as 
he thought the cost was just a few pounds and so wouldnt affect anything.
As soon has he discovered the true cost, he cancelled the life cover. 
The investigator considered Mr Bs comments and replied as follows:
She couldnt see anything which suggested that Zurich had known the life cover was 
linked to his mortgage.
She said that neither she nor Zurich had considered the aspect of the actual level of 
increase of the life cover premium  this may be something that Mr B wished to raise 
separately with Zurich so that it could explain those increases.
Although the investigator noted Mr Bs comment that he didnt have a record of 
receiving the 2007 letter, she was nevertheless satisfied that it was sent.
She acknowledged that the reference to the amount being paid towards life cover 
was several pages into the letter, but this wasnt unreasonable given the amount of 
information Zurich was conveying, and that the plan was primarily a pension policy.
She remained of the opinion that the life cover costs werent made clear in the 
statements, and that Zurichs compensation offer was insufficient. But she couldnt 
ignore the existence and content of the 2007 letter.
Mr B remained unhappy with the proposed outcome, saying the following:
The amount of £300 recommended by the investigator wasnt fair or proportionate to 
the total lack of care hed experienced, not to mention the stress it had caused him.
According to the regulator and the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP), Zurich 
was required to ensure that the annual statements showed all costs and charges 
levied on a pension pot in a clear and transparent way.
He was prepared to pay the costs which he thought he was paying  a couple of 
pounds  but the excess needed to be returned to him as a proportionate settlement.The investigator conformed that she wasnt minded to alter her view, but that she was still 
awaiting a response to her view from Zurich.
Zurich did then respond, saying that it felt the recommended payment of £300 was 
disproportionate to the level of trouble and upset which was likely caused to Mr B, given that 
by his own admission he would have been unaware of the costs before 2019. 
It also said that charges had been deducted correctly and in line with the terms of the policy 
and that the £100 payment had been offered in recognition that the communication relating 
to the cost of the life cover could have been better.
The investigator maintained that the payment was proportionate, but the business then 
submitted a letter it had received from Mr B in 2002, in which he said he understood that the 
life cover cost was being deducted from my pension on an incremental basis and as I get 
older will rise.
Zurich considered this to be confirmation that Mr B was aware that the life cover cost would 
increase each year, and he could have sought confirmation of that cost at any point, as he 
had done in 2002 and in 2007.
Zurich did then agree to the £300 award recommended by the investigator. She conveyed 
this to Mr B, along with the content of the letter hed sent to Zurich in 2002. She commented 
that it seemed Mr B had been aware that his life cover premiums would increase as he 
became older.
Mr B disagreed with the conclusions drawn, saying the following:
His dispute was that Zurich hadnt informed him of the cost of the life cover on an 
annual basis, as had been required by legislation. This was clarified in COBS 
16.6.10R in the regulators handbook.
The fact that Zurich didnt tell him meant that he was unable to make an informed 
decision about continuing the life cover.
The letter demonstrated that he had asked Zurich to provide the information about 
the life cover costs, but it had failed to do so then and afterwards in the annual 
statements.
The 2002 letter demonstrated that the life cover was designed to protect his 
mortgage. He was always told that the cost of life cover would be a few pounds and 
that if the amount of life cover increased, the cost would increase proportionately.
Mr B rejected the offered settlement and said that he wanted his pension to be put 
back into the position it would have been if hed been paying the amount he thought 
he was towards life cover.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Zurich should have been clearer about the life cover deductions 
which were being made to Mr Bs contributions. It too has conceded this point.But although I recognise the strength of feeling held by Mr B about what he would have done 
had he known the cost of the life cover, there are several aspects which have led me to 
question whether that greater disclosure and transparency would have made an actual 
difference here.
To clarify, Mr B was unequivocally aware  at least by 2002  that life cover costs would 
increase as he became older. And I note that, whilst Mr B has said that he thought it 
reasonable that there would be proportionate percentage rises if the level of cover was 
increased, hes remained largely silent on how he thought the costs would rise to take into 
account his increasing age.
Essentially, I dont think Mr B did know how increases might be applied to account for him 
becoming older  and could have enquired further about this if he wished. But importantly he 
was nevertheless accepting of the principle that this would happen.
Ive then thought carefully about the letter from 2007. I acknowledge that Mr B says he 
doesnt recall receiving this, but the evidence nevertheless supports the position that it was 
sent  and to the right address. Its notable that it was also sent in response to an enquiry 
made by Mr B, and Zurich said that, in response to Mr Bs request, it was providing plan 
details, a current value statement and, perhaps most pertinently here, charges information. I 
would also find it odd that, if Mr B hadnt received a response to his request, he wouldnt 
then in any case have chased the matter.
So Zurich responded to Mr Bs information request and set out the plan details. And as with 
the investigator, I dont think the detail relating to the life cover deduction was hidden in the 
letter. Zurich was conveying a significant amount of information and I think it was sufficiently 
prominent.
As far as I can tell, that letter stated a life cover deduction which wasnt significantly different 
from that which Zurich updated Mr B on in May 2019, but Mr B took no action in 2007. So 
whilst I cant be certain that Mr B would have been accepting of that level of deduction at the 
time to protect his mortgage, I think on a balance of probabilities, its more likely than not that 
Mr B received the letter and ought then to have been aware of the cost of life cover at that 
time. And in the absence of a complaint at that time, I must assume that he accepted this.
Mr B may not have needed the life cover after  Im assuming here  his mortgage was 
repaid or he sought an alternative arrangement elsewhere. But I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably conclude that Mr B was unaware of the possibility that a life cover premium such 
as that he was being charged in 2019  in the region of £17-20 pm - was being charged from 
2007 onwards. 
Ive also thought carefully about the comments relating to the actual level of increase in the 
life cover deductions. The investigator said that Zurich hadnt addressed this. But I think it 
has. It explained to Mr B how the policy worked in its final response letter of July 2019. It 
said that the mortality deductions were lower when Mr B was younger, but the overall 
amount placed into the reserve fund was still in the region of £20 to build up a fund which 
would offset the higher mortality costs as Mr B became older.
And its in the understanding of the way the policy operates where I think some confusion 
may unfortunately have arisen as to the actual deductions being made. If Im wrong on this, I 
apologise, but I think its worth reiterating some of the relevant points here. In its final 
response letter, Zurich mentioned both notional deductions and mortality deductions. The 
former was the amount placed into the reserve fund, with the latter being, certainly in the 
early days of the policy, a much lower amount which actually met the cost of the life cover.So when Mr B has, for example, referred to a life cover deduction of £45 for a sum assured 
of £100,000, my understanding is that this wasnt the actual cost of the life cover at that time 
 this would have been significantly lower in 1999. Rather, this was the amount which was 
transferred into the reserve fund to subsidise the greater cost of life cover as Mr B became 
older. And if the life cover was cancelled before that subsidy was required, the remaining 
reserve fund would simply form part of the overall PPP value.
Putting things right
My overall conclusion is that, as I think its likely Mr B was aware, from the information 
provided to him in 2007, of the level of deduction being made from his overall pension 
contribution, I dont think the aspect relating to him having acted differently if the costs had 
been made explicit by Zurich after that point should be upheld. For the reasons given, Im 
not persuaded that Mr B would in fact have acted differently.
Zurich should have been clearer in its communication of the specific life cover costs  as it 
has itself acknowledged. But Ive also noted its points relating to the level of trouble and 
upset this would reasonably have caused. And given my conclusions on the outcome of the 
central issue of the complaint, I couldnt fairly increase the investigators recommendation 
and subsequent offer made by Zurich of £300 in that regard. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay 
Mr B £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman