DRN-3362910
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Bank of Scotland plcs (BOS) level of charges contributed to her 
financial difficulties. 
What happened
Ms M complained to BOS that the fees on her overdraft kept her in a cycle of debt. 
BOS says the fees were correctly applied to her account in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. It says it has already offered refunds and placed a hold on the account to 
assist as well as providing the details of its money management team. 
One of our adjudicators looked into her concerns and thought that BOS shouldve realised 
that Ms M was in financial difficulty and refunded the overdraft charges applied to the 
account from December 2018 because the account in question hadnt maintained a credit 
balance for a significant period of time.  
BOS disagreed  it says it believes Ms Ms account activity suggests poor account 
management rather than financial difficulties. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision. I issued my provisional 
decision on 10 February 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing 
not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions 
before I reached a final decision. As neither party had any further information to add the 
outcome of Ms Ms complaint hasnt changed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Ive seen that Ms M is complaining about the proportionality of the charges applied to her 
account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered 
whether the various amounts BOS charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at BOS various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms M if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Ms Ms account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Ms M was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where BOS didnt treat Ms M fairly and 
reasonably. And overall I dont think that BOS did treat Ms M unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
this because having looked at Ms Ms statements although I can see that there was a short 
period of time where direct debit payments were returned, most the time Ms Ms overdraft 
was being managed. 
Ms M may argue her regular and high use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she 
was struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over her 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant and at times large amounts of non-committed, 
non-contractual and discretionary transactions. 
Although I can see that Ms Ms income fluctuated - as did her spending - I can also see there 
were still regular cash transfers into the account and out of the account and large amounts of 
spending on retail and at times flights. While these transactions in themselves werent 
enough to pay off her overdraft in full, it was certainly enough to bring it down and pay it off 
within a reasonable time should Ms M have chosen to do so. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Ms M wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in on the statements in themselves which ought to have alerted BOS to 
any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to the account for the 
majority of the time didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for BOS to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Ms Ms account was being used. 
I understand that Ms M would like a refund of all fees charged on the account but BOS have 
already refunded fees and put a stop on charges on occasions. So I dont think at this stage 
it should be required to do anything more. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that BOS treated Ms M unfairly or 
unreasonably and this means that Im not minded to uphold this complaint. I appreciate that 
this will be very disappointing for Ms M. But I hope she understands the reasons for my 
decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened .
As neither party has provided any further new evidence or arguments for consideration, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive previously explained I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman