DRN-2745086
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs B took out in 2014 on 
the advice of Key Retirement Solutions Limited. The complaint is that the lifetime mortgage 
was mis-sold; Mrs B says the advisor didnt properly assess her needs and focus on what 
was right for her. 
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mrs B took the mortgage out in 2014. It was for £35,000 and replaced an existing traditional 
mortgage that had a balance of around £21,000.
The terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly repayments are required. The intention is 
that the mortgage is due to be repaid if the last surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing 
care or after their death. It can be repaid voluntarily before either of those events have 
happened, but then an early repayment charge (ERC) is payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Ms H asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file 
to decide it.
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether Key did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to any 
hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2014. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it. Mrs Bs recollections of the sales process are very 
different from what was recorded, and thats not unusual. But I note that at the time, Mrs B 
signed the application form to confirm, amongst other things, that the information Key had 
recorded - and then relied on to make its recommendation - was correct. All things 
considered, Im satisfied I can rely on the point of sale documentation from 2014. 
The information-gathering exercise identified specific financial objectives. It also indicated, 
that Mrs B would need of some form of borrowing if she was to be able to realise her stated 
objectives. So Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime mortgage would 
have been a better option. Given the overall financial circumstances that prevailed at the 
time, its very unlikely that Mrs B would have been accepted for another, larger, traditional 
mortgage, given her age and circumstances, always assuming she wanted to continue 
making regular monthly payments. 
The point of sale documentation shows that Keys advisor covered this off with Mrs B, who 
indicated that she didnt want to continue making regular payments. He also raised and then 
discounted, on Mrs Bs say-so, other alternatives such as selling to down-size, using other 
assets (Mrs B didnt have any) or assistance from family (she wished to remain 
independent). Mrs B also ruled out a home reversion plan as she didnt wish to give up 
ownership of her home.
All of that indicates to me that, contrary to what she now says, Keys advisor did assess 
Mrs Bs situation quite thoroughly, and in some detail, before making his recommendation. It 
also persuades me that an equity release mortgage was probably the only viable option for 
Mrs B in 2014 given the circumstances recorded at the time. 
Its normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity release mortgage, and then to attract 
further interest on a compounding basis. The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary 
terms in the point-of-sale material. Ive seen the illustration for the mortgage; it uses an 
assumption that the mortgage will last for 21 years, but it includes a narrative pointing out 
this assumption and reminding the reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. 
Looking again at Mrs Bs situation as recorded at the time and taking into account the 
reasons why Key recommended the particular lifetime mortgage it did, Im not convinced 
Mrs B would or could have done anything different from what she did. It was her only option 
if she wished to achieve the financial objectives recorded at the time.Whether the plans for the money being raised came to fruition after the mortgage was 
arranged doesnt affect the suitability or otherwise of the advice given at the time. Its 
possible that after the mortgage had gone through, Mrs B subsequently changed her mind 
about what shed do with the money, but Keys duty was to give suitable advice, which Im 
satisfied it did. Key couldnt insist Mrs B follow every aspect of the advice it had given her. 
Nor was it obliged to monitor its customers behaviour after the sale to ensure she did what 
shed said she was going to do.
Lastly, before she took out the mortgage in 2014 Mrs B was required to have independent 
legal advice from a solicitor. The solicitor  chosen by her from a list provided by Key  
confirmed that shed explained the terms of the mortgage to Mrs B. I think that if the solicitor 
had had any concerns that Mrs B didnt understand (or indeed, wasnt capable of 
understanding) the nature and effect of what she was signing, she wouldnt have allowed 
Mrs B to proceed with it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman