DRN-1976342
The complaint
Ms B complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) acted unfairly and unreasonably by 
declining her claim under a travel insurance policy on the basis that it was a pre-existing 
medical condition. She wants the claim paid.
What happened
Ms B took out an annual travel insurance policy with IPA on 29 May 2019. Shed injured her 
knee on a previous holiday in June 2019, but nothing was diagnosed on her return home. 
Ms B said that she was told to rest, and the knee wasnt painful, but kept swelling. Ms B 
booked another trip abroad on 1 August 2019 and was due to fly on 27 September 2019.
But her knee got worse and Ms B was diagnosed with a meniscal tear and told not to travel 
in September 2019; she cancelled her trip. Ms B said that shed asked IPA if she could book 
a holiday with an undiagnosed injury, and it said this was fine, but it then declined her claim.
Ms B complained to IPA. It said the policy specifically said that it didnt cover any claims 
arising directly or indirectly from circumstances known to the policyholder before they bought 
the policy or booked a trip which could reasonably have been expected to lead to 
cancellation of the trip. IPA pointed out that Ms B injured her knee in June 2019, visited a 
hospital about her knee in July and booked the trip afterwards. It noted she had a scan 
because the pain persisted. IPA said Ms B was aware of her knee problem when booking 
the trip and had already been to hospital about it, and so wasnt covered.
Ms B complained to us. The investigator told Ms B that the call recordings received from 
both parties didnt show IPA had told Ms B to go ahead and book a trip while her knee 
condition was undiagnosed. The investigators view was that IPA wasnt at fault. She said 
that the policy made it clear that any cancellation due to a medical condition of which a 
policyholder was aware but undiagnosed wasnt covered if at the time of booking it could 
reasonably be expected to lead to cancellation. 
The investigator thought Ms Bs claim was fairly and reasonably declined as shed visited her 
GP and hospital about her knee and only five days after booking the trip, her condition was 
such that she needed a scan. She added that Ms B had repeatedly sought medical attention 
for her knee and didnt think it was reasonable for her to claim it was a simple sprain, 
particularly as only a short time after booking the trip, she needed an MRI scan.
Ms B disagreed. She said the decision wasnt fair but didnt give any reasons why.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Insurance policies dont cover every possible claim that could be made. Different policies 
offer different level of cover; for example, some will cover declared pre-existing medical 
conditions, while others are not meant for customers with any such conditions. 
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy itself. In the cancellation section, 
Ms Bs policy says it wont cover pre-existing conditions (defined as any medical condition 
you have, or have had, for which you are waiting to receive, or have received treatment 
(including surgery, tests or investigations) within the last 5 years) or Any circumstances 
known to you before you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip that 
could reasonably be expected to result in a claim. These exclusions are repeated and 
highlighted; the policy also points out that a medical condition could be something the 
policyholder is aware of but not diagnosed.
Ms B herself has accepted that between July and August 2019 she repeatedly sought 
medical attention for her knee, including a visit to the Emergency Department of a hospital. 
She mentioned an X-ray was undertaken in July, as well as a GP visit. I think the investigator 
was right to think its more likely than not the symptoms mustve been significant at the time 
the trip was booked as only five days later Ms B is referred for an MRI scan. Ms B herself 
said her knee was swollen.
The policy points out a medical condition doesnt have to be diagnosed. But at the time of 
booking for a medical condition to be excluded, it does have to be reasonably expected to 
result in a claim. Given the situation as outlined by Ms B, Im persuaded that its fair and 
reasonable for IPA to have formed the view Ms B did know the condition of her knee could 
reasonably result in a claim under the policy.
I know Ms B says IPA told her she could book a trip, despite her knee condition not being 
diagnosed. Thats an interesting point as if correct, it shows Ms B was concerned enough to 
check the position, which shows she knew the knee could reasonably cause a claim under 
the policy. But Ms B, despite being asked, hasnt shown any objective evidence the call 
happened (such as phone bills) and only provided call recordings we already received from 
IPA where the conversation isnt recorded. I cant find the conversation happened on this 
basis. I also think its unlikely to have happened as the policy isnt designed to cover any 
pre-existing conditions and it would be against IPAs terms and conditions to tell a 
policyholder to book a trip and she would be covered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 
8 March 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman