DRN-3191831
The complaint
Mr R complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) regarding damage he thinks was 
caused by one of its contractors. He wants Aviva to repair the damage, amend its literature 
and make a contribution to charity. 
What happened
Mr R had home electrics cover with Aviva. This included cover for repairs when electrics 
failed or were damaged. 
Mr R called Aviva about a number of issues over 2019-2021. 
Aviva sent contractors to Mr Rs home to investigate and where appropriate address issues 
in his home. 
In early 2019, Aviva sent a contractor to investigate issues Mr R was having with a flickering 
light. Mr R believes that during this visit, the contractor replaced a trip switch in his consumer 
unit, which was located in his garage.
Aviva sent agents to further issues through 2019 and 2020. 
Around the end of 2020, a gust of wind blew the cover off Mr Rs consumer unit. This 
revealed some evidence of old glue, holding together a crack in the cover. The glue had now 
degraded and the cover was broken. 
Mr R believed that this crack must have been caused by Avivas agents during their 
attendance in early 2019. 
Mr R reported the broken cover to agents of Aviva at subsequent visits. He states that they 
assured him that they would order a replacement cover and return to fit this. He did not hear 
further from them and they did not return
Mr R complained to Aviva. He wanted Aviva to fix the damage which he thought was caused 
by their agents, or in any event to repair the broken cover as part of his agreement.
Aviva sent its final response to Mr R. It did not uphold his complaint. Aviva advised that there 
was no evidence of the damage being caused by its agents or promises to replace it being 
made. Aviva explained that there was evidence of the cover being in place and seemingly 
undamaged in early 2020. Aviva therefore declined to repair the cover. It stated that this 
cover was not included under the electrics policy cover as it was not electrical. 
Mr R was not happy with this response and contacted us.
Our investigator has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This was that, 
based on the available evidence, he could not determine that the damage was caused by 
one of Avivas agents. He consequently did not recommend Aviva do anything further. He 
agreed that Aviva had delayed in returning a call in April 2021 and felt that the apology given 
by Aviva was appropriate. 
Mr R has not accepted that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Rs upset here. He is sure that damage has occurred, and he firmly believes 
that this was the fault of contractors who attended in early 2019, on behalf of Aviva.
I have read the assessment and conclusions of my colleague and I agree with these. We 
have scrutinised the evidence available and have not seen evidence of when or how the 
damage occurred. There is evidence, however, of the cover being in place significantly after 
the appointment where Mr R believes the damage was caused.
On that basis, we are not able to say that it more likely occurred due to an Aviva agent than 
otherwise. 
As we cannot say that Aviva is responsible for this damage, it would not be fair to direct 
Aviva to repair something which we cannot tell it was responsible for. 
Aviva has explained that this consumer unit cover is not included in the cover of the 
agreement and I agree with this. The cover is a hard plastic cover and is not part of the 
functioning of the electric system. I appreciate it may help protect the trip switches from 
external damage, but this is not included in the cover provided. 
I agree with my colleagues assessment that it is sufficient for Aviva to apologise for a delay 
in returning a call. 
Overall, whilst I understand Mr Rs strength of feeling, I agree with the conclusions of my 
colleague and I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. I do not ask Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
Fir the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint and do not ask Aviva 
Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman