DRN-3158719
The complaint
Mr S, through his representative, complains about investment advice he received from 
National Westminster Bank Plc. He feels his circumstances were not appropriately assessed 
and the advisor failed to consider his future needs and objectives.
What happened
Mr S received investment advice from NatWest in 2000. The records from the time show that 
he was 37 years old and in full-time employment with an annual salary of £30,000. He had 
£94,000 in savings and wanted to invest £12,000 (£7,000 for himself and £5,000 for his son), 
keep £5,000 for emergencies and use the remaining £77,000 to purchase a house in the 
near future. He had a medium attitude to risk and wanted to invest for longer term capital 
growth.
The adviser recommended that Mr S invest £7,000 in an ISA in the NatWest Fund of Funds 
and a further £5,000 for his son in a unit trust  again in the NatWest Fund of Funds. Mr S 
accepted the recommendation and the investments were put in place. 
Mr S then complained to NatWest about the advice hed received to invest in the ISA. 
NatWest didnt uphold his complaint as they thought the advice was suitable for his 
circumstances at the time. Mr S then brought the complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators.
The investigator looked into the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She said, in 
summary:
The complaint made by Mr S representative was incorrect as the notes from the time 
of the sale recorded that Mr S had £94,000 available in cash, and that he was 
thinking of buying a house. 
Therefore the claim that Mr S had just purchased a house was incorrect, as was the 
claim that he had other expenses regarding a kitchen renovation - so she couldnt 
have expected the adviser to have taken theses costs into account.
The adviser suggested that Mr S should keep the money until he decided on the 
property he wanted to purchase, however Mr S decided he wanted to invest £7,000 
into an ISA and £5,000 into an investment for his son. 
She didnt think Mr S circumstances were not taken into account, from what shed 
seen a fact find was filled in and his objectives were taken into consideration.
Mr S was made aware of the risks of the proposed investment and still chose to go 
ahead with it.
She disagreed that he shouldve been advised to pay off his mortgage rather than 
invest, however he didnt have a mortgage at the time, so couldnt see how NatWest 
wouldve suggested this to him.
Mr S representative didnt agree with her findings. They thought that at the time of the 
recommendation Mr S had already made an offer on a property and should have been 
advised to put down a larger deposit on the property rather than invest some of his available 
funds.
The investigator didnt agree and pointed to Mr S bank statements which showed that he 
didnt purchase the property until around three to four months after he received the advice. 
She also referred to the point of sale documents which said that Mr S was thinking of buying 
a house and that the adviser suggested he wait until after hed bought the house to make the 
investments. 
Mr S representative still thought the complaint should be upheld and said that Mr S was 
clearly house hunting and they didnt see the logic in advising him to invest in the stock 
market at the time, leaving him with less funds for a deposit and having to borrow more 
using a mortgage. They also thought that NatWest should have kept a written 
acknowledgement from Mr S stating that he was aware he was going against their 
recommendation. 
The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the points Mr S representative has made about NatWest keeping a written 
acknowledgement of Mr S going against the advisers wishes. The representative has 
quoted COBS 9.5A.3 which relates to insistent consumers. An insistent client is defined in 
COBS 9.5A.2 as follows:
A client should be considered an insistent client where:
(1) the firm has given the client a personal recommendation;
(2) the client decides to enter into a transaction which is different from that recommended by 
the firm in the personal recommendation; and
(3) the client wishes the firm to facilitate that transaction.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the adviser made a personal recommendation to 
Mr S which he declined and wanted to enter a different transaction. I think that there was a 
discussion about Mr S future plans where the adviser suggested that Mr S wait until after 
the purchase of the house to receive advice, but Mr S wanted to invest sooner rather than 
later. The adviser then proceeded to give a personal recommendation which Mr S accepted. 
So, on balance, Im not persuaded that Mr S was an insistent consumer.
The main point Mr S representative has made is that he shouldnt have been advised to 
invest because he was looking to buy a property and as such should have kept all his 
available capital to fund the purchase.
I accept this isnt an unreasonable statement, it is sensible to put down as large a deposit as 
possible on a mortgage in order to get the best possible rate. However, this comes with the 
disadvantage of losing access to the capital youve used as a deposit. I dont think its 
unreasonable for consumers to have a mortgage and investments, provided the investments 
are suitable for their circumstances. This type of scenario allows flexibility as it provides the 
opportunity for the growth through investing and the possibility to access capital if required. 
Ive considered the suitability of the recommendation. Mr S didnt have any prior investment 
experience, but this wouldnt automatically exclude someone from taking any risk. There is 
no detailed assessment of his income and expenditure from the time as he declined to complete one. But it was noted that he was 37, in full time employment, had no liabilities, 
was living well from his income and wanted to invest for growth over the longer term.
The adviser recommended that from the c.£94,000 he had available, he should keep 
£77,000 to fund his property purchase, set £5,000 aside for an investment for his son, retain 
£5,000 as an emergency fund and invest £7,000 in the medium risk NatWest Fund of Funds. 
In assessing if the level of risk the adviser recommended was appropriate, Ive considered 
the recommendation letter from 2000. It talked about the relationship between risk and 
reward and said: I explained to you the basic types of investments investment available 
through NatWest, and the Investment Categories we use to help find the right level of 
investment risk for our customers. After discussion, I recommended that you invest all of the 
funds available for longer term investment in Investment Category 2B type investments. The 
reason being that you recognise the longer term potential that comes from investments that 
fluctuate in value and involve the risk of a loss arising. 
It also said: Your agreed aim with regard to the amount committed to this investment is to 
provide prospects for longer term capital growth, and to achieve this you are prepared to 
accept a medium level of risk, such as that indicated by Investment Category 2B.
As I explained, this will be best met by investing mainly in UK and overseas shares, with 
scope to include fixed interest securities and also cash. The shares will provide good 
prospects for capital growth over the longer term but will involve a higher level of risk. The 
fixed interest securities and cash should provide reasonable levels of capital growth, 
together with some stability as they have tended, in the past, to be less volatile than shares.
Based on the evidence available, I think that the recommendation at the time was in line
with Mr S objectives. Im satisfied it was reasonable for NatWest to conclude he was willing 
to take a medium level of risk with some of his capital. And taking into account Mr S 
circumstances at the time - his available savings and what he said about his disposable 
income - I think the recommendation for him to invest in the ISA in the NatWest Fund of 
Funds was a reasonable suggestion for him. I think it met his requirement to provide growth 
over the longer term in a tax efficient way. And for these reasons Im satisfied the advice was 
suitable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman