DRN-3207549
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his accounts. And took too long to release 
funds paid into one of his accounts back to him. 
What happened
Mr S has several accounts with Santander. 
In January 2020, Mr S received a HMRC tax refund payment of just over £10,000 into his 
current account. Following this, Santander decided to review Mr Ss accounts and asked him 
to provide information regarding his entitlement to the funds. 
Whilst it completed its review Santander said Mr S could access other money in his accounts 
by visiting a branch with identification. Santander placed a block on Mr Ss accounts and 
ringfenced the HMRC payment whilst it waited for Mr S to provide information that showed 
he was entitled to the money. Mr S made several trips to branch and managed to access just 
over £30,000 by making several cash withdrawals. The accounts were blocked from January 
2020 until November 2021.
In response to Santanders request, Mr S told the bank that he was self-employed and 
provided a copy of a letter hed received from HMRC which confirmed the tax rebate and 
copies of some of his wage slips. Santander reviewed the paperwork but didnt think it 
showed Mr S was entitled to the HMRC payment as his pay slips didnt show what tax Mr S 
had actually paid over the previous year.
Mr S explained he was registered with the Construction Industry Scheme (CIS) so his 
employer deducted money from his wages and passed it onto HMRC, so his wage slips 
wouldnt show tax being paid. Santander told Mr S it needed to see evidence of what tax 
he had paid and asked him to send over wages slips for 12 months showing his CIS being 
taken and a copy of his self-assessment tax form that hed completed to apply for a tax 
rebate. 
Mr S explained that as he was paid weekly, hed have to provide in excess of 50 wage slips 
which he thought was unreasonable. He also told Santander that the block on his accounts 
were stopping incoming credits and direct debits leaving his account. This meant some of 
Mr Ss bills went unpaid and there was a delay in Mr S receiving his wages as his employer 
couldnt credit his account. Santander looked into things and said it had made a mistake and 
had applied the wrong type of block to Mr Ss account. 
Santander apologised and paid Mr S £200 compensation for any trouble and upset hed 
been caused by the wrong block being applied. Santander corrected the block on 7 February 
2020, which meant Mr Ss direct debits could leave his account. The bank also amended 
Mr Ss credit file so that no missed payment markers were recorded.
In September 2020, Mr S sent Santander his wages slips for 12 months. However, due to 
technical issues Santander couldnt view them. But the bank didnt inform Mr S. In November 
2021, Santander released the HMRC funds to Mr S.
Mr S said due to the block on his account he went into an unarranged overdraft, and a 
refund he was expecting from a cancelled holiday went towards repaying his overdraft rather 
being paid directly to him. Mr S says he suffered a great deal of stress and anxiety because 
he couldnt access the HMRC payment. And ended up in hospital due to this. So, he said the 
amount of compensation offered doesnt adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset 
hes been caused. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. She said Santander were entitled to 
block and review Mr Ss account and had done so to comply with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. She thought the £200 compensation for applying the wrong blocks was fair. She 
also said that the information Mr S initially provided wasnt enough to show he was entitled 
to the HMRC payment. However, she didnt think Santander had completed its review in a 
timely manner and shouldve asked Mr S for the extra information it needed much sooner 
than it did. So, she said Santander should pay Mr S a further £300 compensation for the 
delays.
The investigator said Mr S hadnt been charged anything for his account going overdrawn. 
And the account had gone overdrawn as Santander had decided to honour Mr Ss direct 
debit payments, and as Mr S had withdrawn all his funds, there wasnt enough money left in 
his account to pay his direct debits. She also said Mr Ss holiday refund had been correctly 
applied to reduce Mr Ss overdraft. So, she said Santander hadnt done anything wrong. 
However, she said Santander should refund the account management fees as Mr S hadnt 
been able to use his account properly.
Santander agreed with the investigators view. Mr S said he still thought the amount of 
compensation wasnt enough to reflect the ordeal hed been through. And that hed had 
plans to use the money Santander blocked to pay for a course, buy a car for work and other 
work expenses. So, he wants more compensation for the trouble and upset hes suffered.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Santander has extensive legal and 
regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. 
And to fulfil these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and 
ask customers for information, for example about payments, and information about the 
individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The 
terms of Mr Ss account also permit Santander to review an account and ask its customers 
for information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to block Mr Ss account. Santander has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Santander were complying 
with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Mr S 
inconvenience when it decided to block his account, I cant say the bank treated him unfairly. Before ring fencing the HMRC payment Santander placed a block on all of Mr Ss accounts 
which meant Mr Ss current account wasnt able to receive credits and his direct debits 
couldnt leave his account. He also had to wait around four days to get his wages as his 
employer couldnt pay his salary into his account due to the block. Santander accepted it 
made a mistake and corrected this quickly. It apologised to Mr S, paid him £200 
compensation as well as removing any missed payment markers on Mr Ss credit file. 
Having considered the impact of Santanders mistake, I think this is a fair and reasonable 
offer. So, Im not going to ask Santander to do anything more to resolve this aspect of Mr Ss 
complaint.
 
Ive next looked at what Santander did during its review of the ring fenced HMRC payment 
and whether the bank treated Mr S fairly. While Santander are entitled to carry out a review, 
wed expect them to do so in a timely manner and without undue delay. Santander initially 
blocked Mr Ss account in January 2020 and asked him to provide it with information. Mr S 
did so relatively promptly and gave the bank a screen shot and copy of a letter from HMRC 
on 27 January 2020. 
Ive looked at the information Mr S gave the bank initially and can understand the banks 
concerns and why it wasnt sufficient to show Mr S was entitled to the HMRC payment. After 
Santander let Mr S know it needed more information, I can see that he sent Santander some 
of his wages slips and his SA100 statement in February 2020. However, Mr Ss account 
remained blocked with no further contact from the bank until September 2020 when 
Santander asked Mr S for more pay slips  it said it needed to see a whole years worth.  
Mr S complied and sent the bank around 63 wage slips. Due to a technical issue Santander 
wasnt able to view the wage slips. But Santander didnt let Mr S know about the problems it 
was having accessing the information Mr S sent to them. So, Mr S was left in the dark about 
what was happening with the banks review.
While I recognise that Santander are entitled to carry out a review, I dont consider the 
account being blocked for a further seven months with little or no contact acceptable. I note 
too that the information Santander requested in September 2020 couldve been obtained at 
the time Mr S provided information in February 2020. And that Santander didnt make it clear 
to Mr S exactly what it needed to see from him. I think if it had done so, its likely Mr S 
wouldve produced the information he did in September 2020 in February 2020. 
I also cant see Santander took any proactive steps such as contacting HMRC about the 
Mr Ss rebate and actively reviewing the information Mr S gave the bank in September 2020. 
Santander hasnt explained what it was doing up to the point it released the funds to Mr S. 
And it was only when the investigator prompted Santander about the length of time the 
review was taking, that the bank released Mr Ss funds in November 2021  nearly two years 
later. So, Im satisfied Santander has caused unnecessary delays in releasing Mr Ss funds.
Santander has said the delays were caused by a change in its processes. That may well be 
the case, but I find taking nearly two years to complete a review unreasonable. So, Im not 
satisfied Santander has treated Mr S fairly. Santander has accepted it should have 
completed its review sooner than it did and shouldve asked Mr S for the extra information 
when it first spoke to him in February 2020. Santander has agreed to pay Mr S £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the delay. Mr S has said this isnt enough 
to reflect the trouble and upset hes suffered. 
There isnt a set formula that we use to calculate awards for particular mistakes or poor 
service. Its my role to consider what impact Santanders actions have had on Mr S and 
decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether compensation would be appropriate in 
the circumstances. Based on the evidence Ive seen I think its fair to say the delays caused by Santander 
caused Mr S worry and upset. And I agree compensation is appropriate for this. I say this 
because its clear to me Mr S was caused distress and inconvenience by Santanders 
delays. He had to spend time contacting Santander, collating information, and he had to wait 
more than 18 months for Santander to release his funds. And I accept that this all impacted 
Mr Ss health. So, I can understand how inconvenient  and upsetting all of this was for Mr S. 
And its only right that Santander recognises this. However, Im satisfied that a further £300, 
which brings the total amount of compensation to £500, is  fair and proportionate to the 
trouble and upset Mr S was caused. 
In reaching this conclusion Ive kept in mind that Mr S was able to access his available 
money in his account throughout the entire time Santander were completing its review and 
hes not suffered any financial loss. I know Mr S told the investigator he intended to use the 
HMRC payment to buy a vehicle for work and attend a course, but Ive not seen any 
evidence to support this. So, while Mr S may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the 
compensation recommended by the investigator recognises the impact Santanders actions 
had in the overall circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr S is also unhappy that his account went into an overdraft. And he believes he was 
charged fees as a result. Mr S withdrew all his funds during the review period and Santander 
had ringfenced the HMRC credit, which Mr S knew he couldnt access. So, Im satisfied Mr S 
was aware he didnt have enough money in the account to fund the direct debits. This meant 
when direct debits were paid Mr Ss account went into an overdraft. So, when Mr Ss holiday 
refund was paid into his account it went towards repaying the overdraft  in other words the 
money he owed the bank. And not to Mr S.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss current account allow the account to enter an 
unarranged overdraft where the customer has insufficient funds to cover a payment such as 
a direct debit. And as the investigator pointed out, if Santander had rejected the direct debits 
it wouldve impacted Mr S negatively with the mandate owners and possibly credit reference 
agencies. Ive also kept in mind that Mr S didnt make any alternative arrangements for the 
payment of his direct debits  such as setting up a new account or crediting his account with 
funds. I note too that Mr S wasnt charged any fees for being overdrawn. So overall, I cant 
say Santander has done anything wrong here. 
In summary, its clearly caused Mr S distress and inconvenience when he wasnt able to use 
his account. And had to wait as long as he did for Santander to release his funds. So 
understandably hes upset. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying and frustrating 
time for him. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the 
evidence and circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that an additional £300 
compensation is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be telling Santander to do anything else to 
resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. To put things right Santander UK Plc 
should:
pay Mr S a further £300 compensation, in addition to the £200 already paid to him for 
the trouble and upset caused by the time taken for Santander to complete its review 
of Mr Ss account and release his funds and
refund Mr S the monthly fees it charged for the account between 23 January 2020 and 16 November 2021
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Ombudsman