DRN-2110209
The complaint
Mr S has complained that he transferred £2,00 from his bank (which I will refer to as B) to 
his account with Revolut Ltd, but the funds never arrived. Hes unhappy that despite 
providing Revolut with details of the transfer, it didnt trace the funds.
What happened
Mr S contacted Revolut, to explain hed transferred £2,000 from his account with B, to his 
Revolut account. But the funds had not arrived into his account. Revolut said that it would 
need a transaction confirmation in order to trace the funds. But Mr S explained he couldnt 
provide this, as hed made the transaction online, and a confirmation wasnt available from B 
for this type of transaction.
Revolut explained that its system automatically assigns money to a customers account, 
provided the correct reference number and account details are used. As this hadnt 
happened, it thought there must have been an error/missing details.
To try to locate the funds, Revolut asked for a detailed bank statement/confirmation of the 
transfer, containing all the information about the sender and the beneficiary. This would 
include information such as:
name of bank;
amount of funds;
date;
currency;
BIC;
IBAN;
reference; and
tracking number.
Mr S provided Revolut with a cropped screen shot, showing the date, amount and that the 
payment is to Revolut. Separately, he provided his account details. But the majority of the
information Revolut explained it needed was missing, so it wouldnt be able to locate the 
funds without more.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. But he didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Revolut to ask for the information it had. Although our investigator 
understood Mr S thought the information hed provided was more than enough, he didnt 
consider that it showed the transaction was made from Mr Ss own account with B, or into 
his Revolut account. This was because the information provided was generic, and
could be from anyones account into anyones Revolut account - there was no sort code, 
account number, sending bank name, account holder information, payment reference or 
what sort code and account number the payment was meant to go into.
Our investigator noted that Revolut had recommended that if Mr S couldnt provide the 
required details, that he contact B to recall the payment. He also explained that since the 
problem began, in 2018, the Revolut account details used to make the transfer to are no 
longer valid, because its agreement with the previous payment processor has ended. Do it 
again recommended that Mr S contact B, to request for it to recall the payment.
to them and Im not satisfied you provided the information it requested.
In conclusion, our investigator thought Revolut had acted sympathetically and supportively 
throughout, but that it couldnt proceed without further information. He thought this was 
reasonable. He explained hed seen no evidence that Mr S had contacted B to ask for further 
details to be provided in an alternative format, or to ask for the payment to be recalled. So 
He encouraged Mr S to do so.
Mr S disagreed. He said B hadnt been able to provide the requested details, as they werent 
available on the Internet banking portal. He felt that Revolut knew it had received the £2,000, 
and the fact hed provided a screenshot of the transfer from his Internet banking portal, plus 
a screenshot of the details of Revoluts bank, should have been sufficient.
Our investigator explained that although everything may not have been available on the 
portal, he wasnt satisfied that Mr S had asked B for the information in an alternative format. 
All hed provided was a cropped screenshot.
Mr Ss complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Revolut asked for specific information, which I dont think was unreasonable. Like our 
investigator, I cant see that Mr S tried to obtain this, after it became apparent that the 
cropped screenshot from the portal - and, separately, Revoluts account details, would not 
be enough. Ive carefully considered Mr Ss point that what he provided should have been 
sufficient. But I dont agree. The information was very generic  it could have been from 
anyones account, given that it was so cropped. Im not suggesting for a moment that Mr S 
didnt make the transfer. But what hes provided isnt sufficient to allow Revolut to trace the 
funds, as its system requires more particular, specific information. 
Accordingly, I dont think it was unreasonable for Revolut to ask for more before it could 
further assist in tracing the missing funds.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman