DRN-4114618
The complaint
Mr N complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with his financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr N says he missed required loan repayments in 2021 due to him being abroad and in 
financial difficulties. He says Barclays didnt help him or offer any support but defaulted his 
account. Mr N would like the default removed and says he told Barclays he was intending to 
travel abroad.
Barclays says it agreed a payment holiday with Mr N in 2020 and agreed a repayment plan 
with him in December 2021. It doesnt accept being told Mr N was abroad but accepts it 
recorded a default too soon, when there was a plan in place. Barclays says Mr N didnt keep 
to the repayment plan and it became clear he was unable to afford any repayments. It has 
offered £100 compensation for the mistake but says the default would have been recorded 
at a later point in any event.
Mr N brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think there any evidence Mr N told Barclays he was travelling abroad and didnt think he 
would have been able to avoid the default. The investigator thought the £100 compensation 
offer appropriate for that part of the complaint.
Mr N doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked through Barclays records and I cant see any record of it being told that Mr N 
was intending to travel abroad. Im satisfied in any event it was his responsibility, in line with 
the loan terms and conditions, to make any required monthly repayments.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. I can see that in 2020 Barclays agreed a payment holiday with Mr N which 
no doubt would have helped him. I can also see that in 2021 Barclays agreed a repayment 
plan with Mr N, but he was unable to keep to it. So, Im satisfied Barclays tried to help Mr N 
and did act positively and sympathetically to his position. I can also see that Barclays 
provided Mr N with details of organisations that may have been able to help him.
I accept, and there is no doubt, Barclays defaulted the account too soon. But I can see 
Barclays has fairly apologised for that mistake and offered what I think is a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount of £100. I dont think that mistake resulted in any financial 
loss to Mr N and dont think it had a significant impact. I say that as its clear Mr Ns account 
would have defaulted in any event as he didnt have enough income to afford the 
repayments. So, Im satisfied that Mr N may have benefited from the mistake as the default 
started about a year before it would have been registered. In those circumstances I dont 
propose to ask Barclays to remove the default and order it to change the date to the later 
date as that clearly will not benefit Mr N.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays tried to help Mr N but that the default couldnt be avoided 
in these circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of the complaint and that Barclays Bank 
UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation order of £100 which it should now 
pay Mr N if its not been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman