DRN-3765588
The complaint
Mr E has complained about Highway Insurance Company Limiteds (Highways) handling of 
a claim he made under his contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E made a claim following a fire in the garage of his home. He claimed for damage to 
mechanical tools he says he used for refurbishing classic cars as a hobby, as well as for 
smoke damage to some of his carpets. Highway was prepared to consider the claim for the 
carpets but declined the claim for the tools as it said a policy exclusion applied.
Mr E has raised two complaints about Highways handling of his claim. The second 
complaint also included concerns with the claim decision.
Our service issued a separate jurisdiction decision explaining that Mr Es first complaint was 
brought out of time. So, this decision focuses only on Mr Es second complaint. This 
complaint is about delays and alleged inappropriate conduct caused by Highway or its loss 
adjuster between June 2020 and May 2021, and about Highways decision to decline Mr Es 
claim for damage to his power tools.
Our investigator considered Mr Es complaint. She said she created a timeline of events 
which satisfied her that Highway, or the loss adjuster, hadnt caused any unreasonable 
delays and that the loss adjuster hadnt acted inappropriately. She also said Highways 
decision to decline the claim for the tools was fair and reasonable. This was because 
Highway had conducted a detailed investigation which suggested, on balance, that the tools 
were used in a professional capacity  which meant a policy exclusion applied.
Mr E didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the timeline of events between June 2020 and May 2021. Having done so, 
Im satisfied that Highway, and/or the loss adjuster, havent caused any unreasonable 
delays. They were in regular contact with Mr E or the council throughout this time, and I can 
see they were actively progressing their investigations internally.
Ive also seen no persuasive supporting evidence to show that the loss adjuster acted 
inappropriately during this time period.
The crux of Mr Es complaint centres on the claim decision made on the tools (as I 
understand Highway was prepared to consider the carpets). The claim decision regarding 
the damage to the tools hinges on whether they were owned or used in a professional or 
personal capacity. This is because the policy contains the following exclusion:
Contents which you own or use at any time for business, professional or trade 
purposes, (except for office equipment).
I should point out that its not for me to decide whether Mr Es tools were being used in a 
personal or professional capacity. Instead, I need to decide whether the claim decision 
reached by Highway was fair and reasonable, taking into account the available evidence and 
arguments. 
Having relied on the exclusion to decline Mr Es claim, the onus is on Highway to show, on 
the balance of probabilities, that the exclusion applies. And based on the available evidence, 
Im satisfied Highway has shown that the exclusion, more likely than not, has been fairly 
applied to Mr Es claim. Ill explain why.
Mr E says the tools in question were only used in a personal capacity and not for business 
use. But Highway has highlighted inconsistencies in the testimony Mr E gave throughout this 
claim, and the associated claim he made with his motor insurer. In the process of Highway 
carrying out extensive investigations into the claim, it says the following became apparent:
At the time he made the claim, Mr E declared his profession as the co-owner of a 
business which was unrelated to the motor trade. But he stated he was a motor 
trader when taking out the motor policy and when making his linked claim through the 
motor insurer. Mr E later clarified to Highway that he worked as a motor trader, one 
day per week. 
Mr E said he only restored classic cars as a hobby and didnt have any expertise 
repairing diesel engines or modern vehicles with computer technology. Yet one of the 
tools claimed for is an EOBD reader, which is used for diagnosing computer 
technology issues.
The value of the tools being claimed for is over £30,000  which Highway says is 
very expensive for tools which were only used as part of a hobby. 
Mr E said he didnt trade vehicles from his home, but Highway found numerous sales 
adverts online, many of which included photos of the vehicles for sale being stored at 
Mr Es home. This included a sales advert for a refurbished motorhome which Mr E 
had said wasnt purchased with the intention to be sold, and two other motorhomes 
purchased and listed for sale shortly after the first. Mr E also told the motor insurer 
that he traded from home.
Council records indicate a number of complaints from neighbours which suggested 
Mr E was operating a motor repair business from his residence. The councils 
investigation concluded there was insufficient evidence to show a motor repair 
business was being operated by Mr E as there was no evidence that the vehicles at 
the property had been advertised for sale. But Highways own investigations have 
since shown otherwise.
Mr E has provided responses to many of the above points, including: He gave incorrect information about his main source of income as the non-motor 
related business was shared with a partner whom hed recently broken up with and 
he wasnt in the right head space to go into the details when he was first asked.
He amassed the tool collection over 30 plus years as motor restoration was his main 
hobby and source of enjoyment. So, it being an expensive collection and him not 
being able to provide receipts shouldnt be deemed as suspicious.
The motor home was purchased for personal use, and only sold as it wasnt suitable 
for his family. He didnt carry out significant repairs as they werent required, just light 
redecoration.
The councils investigations didnt conclude that he was operating a motor trade 
business from his residence.
The above points are reasonably broad summaries of some of the representations and 
investigations. But Id like to assure the parties that Ive carefully considered all of the 
available evidence and arguments, even if I havent specifically included them above.
The key points for me are that there were inconsistencies in the information Mr E gave to 
Highway and the motor insurer, particularly around his main source of income and whether 
he traded from his home. In addition, a high number of vehicles were observed at Mr Es 
home throughout the various investigations, several complaints were made by neighbours 
about a motor repair business potentially being run from Mr Es home and there were a 
number of vehicles advertised for sale photographed outside Mr Es home  which it appears 
the councils investigators missed. And while I agree Mr E has offered plausible explanations 
for some of Highways concerns, there are others which he hasnt directly answered.
Ultimately, the evidence in this case is contradictory, so like Highway, Ive made my decision 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, based on what I think, more likely than not, 
happened. Taking everything into consideration, I dont think it would be reasonable to 
conclude that the tools were, more likely than not, all owned or used in a personal capacity. 
Rather I find Highways conclusion, that the tools were most likely owned or used in a 
professional capacity, was reasonable in light of the available evidence and arguments.
It therefore follows that Highways decision to decline the claim for the tools, based on an 
applicable policy exclusion, was both in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If other elements of the claim, aside from the tools, remain outstanding, Mr E should discuss 
these directly with Highway.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against Highway Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman