DRN-4156914
The complaint
The Estate of Ms R complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral), 
handled a claim for damage from an escape of water under Ms Rs home insurance policy. 
Any reference to Admiral in this decision includes their agents. 
Ms R unfortunately passed away before the incident. So this complaint has been brought by 
her daughters, as joint executors, on behalf of the Estate of Ms R. 
What happened
Ms R had a home insurance policy with Admiral, taken out in June 2022. Ms R paid the full 
annual premium, so the policy covered the period to June 2023. Ms R moved to a care home 
for a period of respite care from August 2022 and Admiral were told about the move by her 
daughter. Towards the end of September 2022 Ms Rs care home residence became 
permanent and Admiral were also told of the change. Ms R sadly passed away in October 
2022 and again Admiral were informed of her passing. Admiral were also told Ms Rs 
property was going to be sold. Ms Rs daughter said she wasnt told at any point by Admiral 
the property wouldnt continue to be covered under the policy. A buyer for the property was 
found and the sale process progressed.
However, in December 2022, there was a leak in the loft of the property which came through 
the ceiling causing damage to the kitchen and a bedroom. Ms Rs daughter contacted 
Admiral to tell them about the leak and she asked whether the policy would cover the 
damage. She said she was told that it was, and Admiral arranged for an emergency plumber 
to attend the property the following day to fix the cause of the leak. Ms Rs daughter 
contacted Admiral and said she was told she was covered, and they arranged for an 
assessor to visit the property. The assessor visited and inspected the damage later in 
December, telling Ms Rs daughter about the next steps of the claim process, including 
producing a report for Admiral.
Ms Rs daughter then contacted Admiral early in January 2023 to follow up with progress. 
Contacting Admiral again, Ms Rs daughter was told the report had been received and they 
offered £11,000 in settlement of the claim, so she could engage contractors to begin repair 
work. Ms Rs daughter said she was told shed just need to pay the policy excess. Ms Rs 
daughter asked Admiral if they could appoint contractors to carry out the repair work directly.
The following day, Ms Rs daughter was contacted by Admiral to say theyd reviewed the 
policy and the property wasnt covered, given the period the property had been unoccupied. 
So, they wouldnt be accepting the claim. Ms Rs daughter challenged Admirals change of 
position, given she thought shed been told the property was still covered under the policy in 
the circumstances shed told them about. She said she was told the policy would still cover 
the property until June 2023 (the prospective buyers solicitor had asked whether the 
property would be insured up to the point the purchase was completed). Ms Rs daughter 
was also unhappy that the circumstances of what happened had meant shed lost out on the 
sale of the property.
Admiral treated Ms Rs daughters concerns as a complaint, which they upheld in part. In 
their final response, they agreed with the concerns raised by Ms Rs daughter and 
apologised for the inconvenience caused to her. They noted in the initial call Ms R made in 
December 2022 to tell them about the leak, she was asked about the damage and the 
occupancy of the property. Admiral apologised for the call handler not correctly recording the 
property being unoccupied (though they said Ms Rs daughter didnt confirm the number of 
days the property was unoccupied). As a result of the incorrect recording, Admiral appointed 
an assessor to review the damage to the property and validate the claim. Admiral upheld this 
aspect of the claim and awarded £200 compensation for their error in not confirming in the 
call that the claim would be declined. They awarded a further £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Ms Rs daughter. However, Admiral noted the policy document 
stated the policy didnt cover unoccupied properties, so theyd acted in line with the policy 
terms in declining the claim. 
Admiral accepted it had taken longer than it should have done to validate the claim. On the 
loss of the sale of the property, Admiral said they couldnt be held responsible, referring 
again to the policy terms stating the policy didnt cover unoccupied properties. So, they didnt 
uphold that aspect of the complaint. 
The Estate of Ms R then complained to this service. In making the complaint, Ms Rs 
daughter said it had been a very stressful period dealing with her late mothers decline in 
health, moving into a care home and then passing away. She said shed tried to deal with 
matters, including the insurance for Ms Rs property and contacting them about the leak and 
damage. She said she was led to believe the damage would be covered under the policy. 
So, it had been a shock and very stressful when Admiral said the claim wouldnt be 
accepted. The delays in the process meant no work was carried out to repair the damage, 
which had become worse. She thought Admiral had handled the claim badly, causing her 
undue stress and inconvenience. She wanted Admiral to honour their original offer of 
£11,000 to settle the claim (so she could use it to repair the damage and replace the 
contents). This would be additional; to their offer of £300 compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded Admiral had been informed 
about Ms Rs condition and subsequent passing away. Admiral acknowledged her passing 
and confirmed the policy remained in force  but with restrictions on cover. As the Estate of 
Ms R (her daughter) was provided with this and details of the restrictions on cover (including 
damage caused by an escape of water) then the investigator concluded Ms Rs daughter 
would reasonably have been aware of the restrictions on cover before the escape of water 
incident in December 2022. The investigator also noted the error by the call handler when 
the incident was first reported to Admiral in December 2022, which meant the restriction on 
cover (and consequently decline of the claim) wasnt made clear to Ms Rs daughter at the 
time. This led to delay in validation (and subsequent decline) of the claim and distress and 
inconvenience to Ms Rs daughter. The investigator thought Admirals offer of a total of £300 
in compensation was fair.
The Estate of Ms R (Ms Rs daughter) disagreed with the investigators view and asked that 
an ombudsman review the complaint. She said she believed shed followed the policy 
requirements throughout and had checked with Admiral whether cover would be provided 
under the policy before making her claim. She didnt doubt there was a clause about 
unoccupancy, which is why she kept Admiral informed of her mothers health. Shed told 
Admiral about her mother moving into a care home and subsequently passing away, but to 
her knowledge hadnt been advised that cover wouldnt be provided. She thought the 
exclusions to cover (when a property was unoccupied) would only apply if she didnt inform 
Admiral about the unoccupancy. She thought Admiral should have advised her about the 
restrictions on cover (after the 60-day unoccupancy limit had been exceeded). The time 
taken for Admiral to decide to decline the claim meant shed delayed engaging contractors to repair the damage (which led to it worsening). She said shed been advised she was 
covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to express my sympathy to Ms Rs daughters for the passing of their mother. I 
know the loss will have been difficult and stressful for them, as well as having to deal with 
Ms Rs affairs and with the leak at Ms Rs property and the claim under the policy. Ive borne 
this in mind when deciding whether Admiral have acted fairly towards the Estate of Ms R.
The key issue in Ms Rs complaint is whether Admiral acted fairly in declining the claim for 
damage to Ms Rs property from the escape of water (having initially appearing to accept it 
and appointing an assessor and making a settlement offer). The Estate of Ms R contend 
Admiral indicated cover would continue to be provided for the property after Ms R moved 
into a care home and then passed away. Admiral say the terms of the policy mean cover 
wouldnt be provided for a property that was unoccupied, which was the case at the time of 
the escape of water. 
A secondary issue is the time taken by Admiral to assess the claim (and then decline it) and 
Ms Rs daughter having to chase them for updates and progress with the claim. Ms Rs 
daughter said she had to chase Admiral about the assessors report and then the outcome of 
the claim (and her subsequent complaint to Admiral). Admiral say Ms R didnt need to chase 
them, although in their final response they accept it took longer than it should have done to 
validate the claim.
On the first issue, Ive considered what Ms Rs daughter and Admiral have said, together 
with the supporting information and evidence provided by both parties. In their final 
response, Admiral refer to the policy terms and conditions that state cover isnt provided for 
unoccupied properties. Specifically, they refer to Section 1: Buildings (cont.) which states:
What is not covered
Unfurnished or unoccupied
While not referred to in the final response, Ive noted the Home Proposal Confirmation 
issued shortly before the policy was taken out in June 2022 includes the following 
information:
Use of your home
Permanent residence Yes
Are you currently occupying the property Yes
Consecutive days unoccupied 30
The policy was issued based on this information, that the property was permanently 
occupied, and cover would continue for a period of 30 days where the property wasnt 
occupied. However, the Home Policy Schedule includes the figure of 60 days recorded 
against the heading Days unoccupied limit. Given the sequence of events set out above, 
its clear the property had been unoccupied for more than either 30 or 60 days immediately 
before the incident in December 2022.The policy document issued when the policy was taken out also makes it clear that if any of 
the information contained in the Home Proposal Confirmation (or Home Policy Schedule) 
changes during the period of insurance changes, the policyholder must tell Admiral. The 
policy defines unoccupied as:
When your home has not been lived in by you or any member of your family for 
longer that the Days unoccupied limit shown in your Home Policy Schedule
The policy then sets out the following Important statement immediately underneath the 
definition:
if you know that the home is going to be unoccupied for longer than the Days 
unoccupied limit you must tell us beforehand so you are not left without cover.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) that sets out the more important terms 
and conditions of the policy also includes a list of main cover exclusions, including one 
headed Empty Homes which makes it clear loss or damage under many sections of the 
policy isnt covered if the home is left unfurnished or unoccupied for more than 60 days.
Taken together, I think these terms are clear about the basis of the cover provided being 
where the property is occupied (or not unoccupied for more than 60 days) and that where a 
property becomes unoccupied, the policyholder (or other person on their behalf) should 
inform Admiral. 
While these terms are clear, Ms Rs daughter, when making her complaint to this service, 
states she informed Admiral about the period of respite care from August 2022, when 
towards the end of September 2022 Ms Rs care home residence became permanent; when 
Ms R passed away in October 2022; and that the property was going to be sold. 
Our investigator asked Admiral whether they had any such contacts from Ms Rs daughter. 
They provided a copy of an email (in October 2022) that acknowledged Ms Rs passing. It 
also acknowledged the policy was still in force, but that as the property was unoccupied 
cover would be restricted, providing a link to the policy terms. This is consistent with the 
wording in the IPID referred to above.
The policy document also sets out under Section 1: Buildings two headings  one for What is 
covered and What is not covered. As the damage was caused by an escape of water, the 
relevant statements under the respective headings are as follows:
What is covered What is not covered
10) Water escaping from any: Loss or damage caused while your home is
Fixed water tank unfurnished or unoccupied.
Water pipe
Taking all these points together, alongside what Ms Rs daughter said in responding to our 
investigators view about understanding there would be an exclusion for unoccupancy, Ive 
concluded Ms Rs daughter should reasonably have been aware that the unoccupancy of Ms 
Rs property (for more than 60 days) would have meant restrictions on the cover provided 
under the policy. But it wouldnt have meant no cover at all was provided, which is why 
Admirals email to Ms Rs daughter in October 2022 states the policy will continue in force 
until the policy renewal date in June 2023.
Based on my findings above, Ive concluded Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in declining 
the Estate of Ms Rs claim on the grounds that cover was restricted under the terms of the policy because the unoccupancy limit (of 60 days) contained in the Policy Schedule had 
been exceeded at the date of the incident. 
While Ive come to this conclusion, Ive considered the second aspect of complaint, the time 
taken for Admiral to decline the claim (having first indicated they were going to validate it, by 
sending out an assessor to inspect and report on the damage). Admiral acknowledge their 
call handler didnt correctly record the point about the length of unoccupancy when Ms Rs 
daughter contacted them in December 2022 to tell them about the escape of water. Had the 
call handler done so, its likely Admiral would have reached their eventual decision to decline 
the claim much more quickly than they did. And they may not have given the impression 
(through assigning an assessor to visit the property and then subsequently making a cash 
settlement offer  only to withdraw it the following day) they were accepting the claim.
I agree this would have raised expectations on the part of Ms Rs daughter. But Ive also 
noted the elapsed time between the incident being notified to Admiral and their decline of the 
claim was just under a month (which included the Christmas and New Year period). But the 
time elapsed would have caused Ms Rs daughter distress and inconvenience (added to that 
caused by the expectation the claim was going to be accepted). 
Ive thought about the circumstances of the case and Ive concluded Admirals award of 
compensation of £300 is fair and reasonable compensation. Id expect them to pay the 
compensation to the Estate of Ms R (if they havent already done so).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to:  
Pay the Estate of Ms R £300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience (if 
they havent already done so).
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell them the Estate of Ms R accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this 
they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms R 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman