DRN-1651962
 
The complaint
Mr Y complains that APFIN LTD (trading as Cashasap) acted irresponsibly when lending to 
him. 
What happened 
Between April 2016 and September 2019 Cashasap provided Mr Y with a total of forty four  
loans. 
Heres a table setting out details of the first ten loans:
 
Loan  
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountMaximum
Repayment
1 19/04/2016 25/04/2016 1 £200.00 £212.71
2 26/04/2016 27/05/2016 1 £300.00 £373.89
3 27/05/2016 23/06/2016 1 £300.00 £373.89
4 23/06/2016 27/07/2016 1 £300.00 £381.04
5 27/07/2016 26/08/2016 1 £300.00 £376.27
6 26/08/2016 29/08/2016 1 £300.00 £376.27
7 01/09/2016 27/09/2016 1 £300.00 £361.97
8 27/09/2016 27/10/2016 1 £200.00 £247.67
9 28/10/2016 10/11/2016 1 £100.00 £122.25
10 10/11/2016 25/11/2016 1 £100.00 £111.92
 
Mr Y feels that Cashasap didnt do proper checks and that it shouldnt have given him loans 
it shouldve realised were unaffordable.When Mr Y complained to Cashasap it made an offer to settle his complaint by refunding 
interest and charges dating back over the previous 12 months which meant that Mr Ys 
outstanding debt would be cleared and hed receive a small cash refund.  
Mr Y didnt feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ys complaint. She didn't feel shed seen enough to say that 
Cashasap shouldnt have provided the first two loans to Mr Y. But she felt that by loan 3, 
proportionate checks would most likely have shown that he was having problems managing 
his money as he already had other short term loans outstanding.
So our adjudicator said Cashasap ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr Y wouldve been 
able to sustainably repay this loan  and any subsequent loans. And Cashasap shouldnt 
have provided loan 3, or any further loans, to Mr Y. Our adjudicator gave detailed directions 
setting out what she thought Cashasap should do to put things right for Mr Y.   
Cashasap didnt agree with everything our adjudicator said. But, after reviewing our 
adjudicators assessment, Cashasap said it wanted to put forward a new settlement 
proposal. Cashasap said it was willing to refund all interest and charges paid on loan 6 
onwards.
We passed this offer on to Mr Y but it falls short of what our adjudicator recommended and 
Mr Y has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. And in these circumstances hed 
like me to consider upholding his complaint about all of the loans Cashasap provided to him. 
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashasap needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr Y 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashasap should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Cashasap was required to establish whether Mr Y could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ys complaint.
Cashasap has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr Y. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Cashasap what he normally spent each month. And 
Cashasap also carried out checks on Mr Ys credit file. 
Looking at the repayments that Mr Y needed to make on loans 1 and 2, the amounts 
wouldve seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. 
Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ys circumstances at the 
time, and his borrowing history with Cashasap, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate 
for Cashasap to ask Mr Y for the amount of information that would be needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first two loans. So I agree with our 
adjudicator that I havent seen enough information to uphold Mr Ys complaint about these 
loans.
But I do think Cashasap should have looked further into Mr Ys circumstances by the time he 
took out loan 3. Hed repaid loan 1 early and the next day taken out a loan that was 50% 
more than the amount hed just repaid. When hed repaid loan 2 he borrowed a loan for the 
same amount again the same day. That suggested he mightve been having trouble 
managing his finances in a well planned way and that he couldnt easily afford to repay loans 
without borrowing again. 
Given the information that Cashasap had recorded for Mr Y about his finances and his living 
arrangements, I think Cashasap shouldve enquired further to obtain a proper understanding 
of his financial situation as the information it had gathered so far appeared at odds with his 
borrowing request. 
Cashasap hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate 
check before agreeing to lend him loan 3. 
Mr Y has provided his credit file and bank statements so Ive looked through these to see 
what Cashasap was likely to have found out. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender 
should have done this. But, in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable picture of Mr Ys finances at the time. And had Cashasap looked in more depth at Mr Ys 
finances it would likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money. 
I think it would have learnt that Mr Y already had at least three loans outstanding with other 
short term lenders when he took out loan 3. 
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Cashasap to think that it was likely Mr Y would 
be able sustainably to repay loan 3  or any further lending. So it shouldnt have provided 
this loan or any of the loans that followed. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Cashasaps lending history with Mr Y with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashasap should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ys case, I think by loan 7 Cashasap should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. I say this because at this point Cashasap ought to have 
realised:
Mr Y was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. This was his seventh loan in 
around five months. So I think Cashasap shouldve realised that this record of 
borrowing indicated ongoing money problems.
 
Cashasap ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr Y was borrowing 
further to cover the hole repaying each previous loan was leaving in his finances 
rather than using the loans for their intended purpose of helping him manage a 
temporary cash flow problem. 
 
Ive carefully considered everything Cashasap has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. But I dont think its offer goes far enough. For the reasons Ive explained, 
I think Cashasap shouldve seen that by the time Mr Y took out loan 7 there were clear signs 
that he had become reliant on this sort of expensive credit. So it shouldve realised then that 
it was unfair to continue lending to him. 
I think that Mr Y lost out when Cashasap continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ys indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
 
the number of loans which Mr Y borrowed was likely to have negative implications on 
Mr Ys ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans. 
 
So overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 3 through to 44. 
Putting things right  what Cashasap needs to do 
If Cashasap has sold outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Cashasap isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr Y towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr Y which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr Y originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr Y as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr Y having made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Cashasap 
should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr Y. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Cashasap should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr Y.
 
E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ys credit file for loans 3 - 6. The number of 
loans taken from the point of loan 7 means any information recorded about these is 
adverse. So all entries about loans 7- 44 should be removed from Mr Ys credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashasap to take off tax from this interest. Cashasap 
must give Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Ys complaint. APFIN LTD (trading as 
Cashasap) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman