DRN-3769905
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr R complain that Lloyds Bank PLC did not forward their e-mail containing 
evidence for a chargeback to the correct department. 
What happened
I wont go into detail about what happened as both parties are aware of the circumstances of 
the complaint. Ill summarise by saying the Mrs B and Mr R purchased flight tickets with 
airline A for their family, but due to complications could no longer use them. Mr R attempted 
to amend the name and destination on the tickets but could not reach As customer service 
to amend them, so could not use the tickets. He raised a chargeback claim with Lloyds but 
e-mailed his evidence to the wrong department and this was not forwarded to the correct 
one.
Our Investigator did not uphold the chargeback aspect of the complaint but did think Lloyds 
should have forwarded the e-mail to the correct department and awarded £75 compensation 
in recognition of this. Mrs B and Mr R rejected this as they felt an offer in the region of £150 
would be more reasonable. 
The complaint was passed to me and I came to the same outcome as the Investigator but for 
different reasons. I wanted to give both parties the opportunity to understand my thinking 
and issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
Ive firstly considered the issue of Lloyds not forwarding Mr Rs e-mail to the correct 
department. While I do accept that Mr R was clearly told the correct e-mail address to send 
the evidence to, I also have to consider that he did still send the evidence to a separate 
disputes department within Lloyds. So, Im satisfied Lloyds as an organisation received the 
evidence Mr R provided and could have either let him know where to redirect the e-mail to, 
or forward the e-mail to the relevant department. Its unclear what happened to Mr Rs 
original e-mail and it appears to have simply sat in the incorrect department and not been 
dealt with. On balance, I dont think this was reasonable in the circumstances and I think 
Lloyds also has a responsibility for Mr Rs evidence not being received by the correct 
department. 
If Mr R was therefore put back in the position he would have been in had his e-mail been 
sent to the correct department, his chargeback would have been raised. It should be noted 
that the chargeback process is a voluntary scheme and there is no guarantee of a refund in 
the circumstances. Because of this Ive considered if I think it was likely the chargeback 
claim had a reasonable chance of success.
The call handler at Lloyds who raised the chargeback chose the chargeback code 
misrepresentation, which Mr R agreed with. This was because they felt A misrepresented 
the terms and conditions which state the name of a passenger can be changed, because   
Mr R was unable to reach the customer service center in order to change the name. 
Ive thought about this carefully, and having done so, based on what Ive seen so far, I dont 
agree that this amounts to misrepresentation. For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the 
definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue statement of fact or law made by one party (or 
his agent) to a second party which induces that second party to enter the contract, thereby 
causing them loss. 
Mr R has said that in his case the untrue statement was that the name of a passenger could 
be changed on a ticket by contacting the customer service centre. But it was so busy that he 
could not get through to make the change. But I dont think it was untrue that the name of a 
passenger could be changed by contacting the customer service centre. Instead, I think that 
due to issues relating to COVID-19 around that time, a lot of people were trying to contact A 
at the same time and Mr R had practical difficulties in getting through to the department that 
could make the change for him. But it was still possible for him to get through to the 
customer service centre and change the name.
Because of this, based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think the chargeback claim had a 
reasonable chance of success, so I dont think Mr R has suffered a financial loss by Lloyds 
not raising a chargeback claim for him. I do think that Mr R was caused distress and 
inconvenience when he found out Lloyds did not forward the e-mail to the correct 
department which I feel was unreasonable. And I think the £75 already offered is in line with 
what I would have recommended in the circumstances. 
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision accepting my findings and agreeing to the £75 
compensation offer. 
Mrs B and Mr R responded expressing that while they were disappointed with my findings, 
they did accept the offer of £75 compensation for the way in which Lloyds handled their 
chargeback claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the findings set out in my provisional decision and have not 
provided any additional comments or evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to deviate 
from my original findings. 
My final decision
I therefore uphold this complaint in part and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mrs B and Mr R 
£75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the error has caused them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman