DRN-4249507
The complaint
Ms A complains about the service she received from Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(DG) under a protection policy for her fridge freezer.
References to DG include their agents who administer policies and carry out services under 
policies.
What happened
Ms A had a protection policy with DG covering breakdown and repairs to her fridge freezer. 
In February 2023 the fridge freezer became faulty, so DG sent an engineer to fix the 
problem. They did so, but the same fault happened again in May 2023. DG sent a second 
engineer, who said that because the same fault had occurred, they would treat the fridge 
freezer as beyond economical repair and replace it.
However, there were issues with the replacement fridge freezer as the supplier couldnt 
deliver the new fridge freezer due to a step outside Ms As property and also they werent 
able to take the fridge freezer through passageways. The order was cancelled, and a 
replacement fridge freezer ordered through a different company. Due to her circumstances 
and vulnerability, Ms A was reliant on her fridge freezer. So, she asked for the replacement 
to be unpacked on delivery. However, the supplier wouldnt unpack the new fridge freezer, 
so it was taken away. 
Ms A contacted DG after the second unsuccessful delivery, asking for a specific timeslot for 
delivery of a replacement and help unpacking it. But she said the call handler she spoke to 
was rude to her, then the line was cut off. A replacement fridge freezer was then delivered 
by a third supplier the following day.
Unhappy at the call handler being rude to her, Ms A complained to DG. In their final 
response, DG upheld the complaint and awarded £20 as a gesture of goodwill. Having 
listened to the call made by Ms A, DG apologised for the way the call handler spoke to Ms A. 
While the call handler explained the process for a replacement and the services provided, 
they interrupted Ms A while she was speaking. 
Ms A then complained to this service. She didnt think DGs final response and offer of £20 
compensation was adequate for the way she felt treated by the call handler.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding DG didnt need to take any action. 
Having listened to the call in question, while appreciating it was a difficult situation the 
investigator didnt think the call handler was rude or patronising to Ms A. The call handler 
was trying to find a solution to the problems delivering the replacement fridge freezer, 
particularly unpacking and installation. As this wasnt something covered by the policy, the 
investigator wouldnt expect DG to cover the cost.
Ms A disagreed with the investigators view, raising several points. First, she didnt agree the 
call handler wasnt rude or patronising. And DG, in upholding her complaint, had apologised 
and the call handler had interrupted her. Ms A didnt think the call handler was trying to find a 
solution and was simply rude. On the issues unpacking and installing the replacement fridge 
freezer, two suppliers wouldnt bring it into her kitchen due to access issues with a step and 
passageways. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to acknowledge what Ms A has told us about her circumstances and 
vulnerability, and the impact they have on her. I recognise the particular importance of 
having a working fridge freezer and so the problems having a fridge freezer delivered and 
installed and working would have been stressful for Ms A. And feeling shed been talked to 
rudely and patronisingly by a call handler would have added to Ms As stress at the situation. 
Ive borne this in mind when deciding, as is my role here, whether DG have acted fairly 
towards Ms A.
In forming my conclusions about Ms As complaint, Ive noted the issue is how she was 
treated in a specific call to DG. While there were issues with the delivery of a replacement 
fridge freezer, from the case notes provided by DG it appears two suppliers werent willing to 
unpack and/or take the replacement fridge freezer into Ms As kitchen, given its location and 
the presence of a step and passageway access. But Ive noted a replacement was 
successfully delivered by a third supplier (who didnt make any additional charge for 
unpacking, from what Ive seen). 
And from the initial decision to deem Ms As fridge freezer as beyond economical repair, 
through to a replacement being successfully delivered, took five days. This includes the two 
unsuccessful attempts to deliver a replacement by other suppliers. While acknowledging the 
issues with delivery, I dont think this is an unreasonable timescale. So, Ill focus on how Ms 
A was treated in the specific call shes unhappy about.  
Ms A says the call handler was rude and patronising in the call. DG have apologised for the 
way the call handler spoke to Ms A, interrupting Ms A while she was speaking.
Ive listened to the call carefully. The overall call lasts for just under 40 minutes, and Ms A 
sets out the issue (with the second supplier not willing to unpack the replacement and bring 
it into her property). The call handler sets out the option of a third supplier, though they may 
not be able to supply a replacement of the make Ms A says she would prefer. While the call 
handler seeks to set out the services DG offer (and those they dont) they do talk over Ms A 
while shes speaking on several occasions. So, I agree the call handler interrupted Ms A. 
Perception is necessarily subjective, but I can understand why Ms A felt she was treated 
rudely and patronisingly  although I think the call handler was trying to reach a solution 
(through a third supplier) while drawing Ms As attention to some limitations (the availability 
of the brand of replacement she preferred). The call handler puts the call on hold while 
checking stock availability and then picks up the options with Ms A, including options that 
would require an upgrade fee. I dont think that was unreasonable. The call handler 
acknowledges Ms As circumstances and vulnerability, sets out the services available. The 
call is then put on hold before disconnecting (its not clear how or why it disconnects).
Considering these points together, I can understand why Ms A thinks she was treated in a 
rude and patronising way, although I think the call handler was trying to be helpful and set 
out options and what DG (the policy) can (and cannot do).
Having reached these conclusions, Ive then considered whether DG have acted fairly and 
reasonably in apologising offering Ms A £20 compensation. As I think Ms A was interrupted 
several times, I can understand her feeling she was treated in a rude and patronising way  though I dont think that was the intention of the call handler. I think its appropriate DG have 
apologised and offered compensation (as a goodwill gesture). considering the circumstances 
of the case, I think £20 is fair and reasonable for one phone call. 
Assuming they havent paid the sum, I think DG should pay Ms A £20 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I require Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to:
Pay Ms A £20 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman