DRN-1314440
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1994 in connection with a joint mortgage. Mr G and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G took out a PPI policy in connection with their mortgage ending with the 
numbers 09-03. They paid a monthly amount for the policy which offered accident, sickness 
and unemployment cover. They complain there was no assessment of the suitability of the 
policy for them. They added they didnt need PPI due to their financial circumstances, so 
they conclude it was mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr G and Mrs G disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
They added that when Mr G turned 50 and wanted to take voluntary redundancy, his 
employer refused. So he concludes it proves he did not need the redundancy cover on 
the policy at the time of the sale.
The PPI only covered Mr G so I will mainly refer to him. But I will refer to Mr G and Mrs G or 
they and them wherever appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs and Mrs Gs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Neither BOS nor Mr G and Mrs G have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think 
thats surprising given that the sale took place around 26 years ago. But it does mean I 
have limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to have 
happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
BOS should have made Mr G and Mrs G aware they had a choice in buying the policy. 
They could not give many details about the sale in 1994 but they did say they could not 
recall BOS conducting a fact find or full assessment of their needs. 
However, I noted the policy was tailored to cover Mr G only - so I think their primary 
concern was that his salary needed PPI support which means there probably had been an 
assessment of their needs. So overall, I think its more likely BOS made it clear to them 
they had a choice about the PPI, and they agreed to buy it to cover Mr G, although I can 
understand why they may not remember that now.
BOS says the sale was advised, but Mr G and Mrs G said PPI was not discussed in detail 
and they cannot recall any advice given about it. However, I think it more likely there was 
some discussion about PPI  particularly as it was tailored to cover Mr G  so I will 
continue on the basis it was an advised sale.
For advised sales, the PPI had to be suitable for them. I think the policy probably was 
suitable for them because Mr G was eligible to buy PPI, it seemed affordable for them at 
the time and he was not affected by the main things the policy didnt cover (the 
exclusions).
I noted Mr G said he would have received employee benefits, and had savings, and other 
policies. But this policy could have paid out for a maximum of 12 months on a successful 
claim. This would have been in addition to and probably for longer than his employee 
benefits and would have saved their other policies and savings for other expenses and 
other insurance events. The mortgage was a long term financial commitment secured on 
their home, and I think having the security that their mortgage repayments would be made 
if Mr G was unable to work would have been important to them. So I dont think Mr Gs 
employee benefits and other policies and savings made this policy unsuitable.
Mr G said his employer took a paternalistic view towards its employees  and an example he 
gave was that his employer would not let him take early voluntary redundancy when he 
turned 50. So he concludes he didnt need the redundancy cover in the PPI policy. However, 
I need to look at what happened at the time of the sale in 1994 and Mr G had previously told 
us the policy was probably tailored to cover him as his employer did redundancy drives quite 
frequently  though Mrs Gs job was more secure. Although I accept that over the years his 
job became even more secure, I have to look at how things were at the time of the sale. So I 
dont think his employers later redundancy policy made the PPI unsuitable for them in 1994. 
 
For advised sales, the information had to be clear enough for Mr G and Mrs G to make 
an informed decision.
Looking at everything Ive been told, its possible the information BOS gave Mr G and Mrs 
G about the PPI cost, benefits and exclusions wasnt as clear as it could have been. But 
having decided they chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful 
for them if something went wrong. So I think they most likely had enough information 
about the cost, benefits and the exclusions at the time of the sale and I think its unlikely 
that more information would have put them off from buying it.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the 
PPI policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that 
could create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said 
that businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship 
provisions in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which 
were added to the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The 
changes made in 2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to 
credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, 
which were still running on 6 April 2008.
BOS said Mr Gs and Mrs Gs mortgage was taken out in 1994 and ended in 2002. So 
based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here. So BOS doesnt need to 
refund any of the commission Mr G and Mrs G paid for the PPI they had with their 
mortgage.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr G and Mrs G. Its always 
difficult to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about 
what they said and about what BOS said. And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and 
reasonably uphold their complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman