DRN-3798760
The complaint
A limited company, which I will call S, has complained that Covea Insurance Plc unfairly 
declined its claims for business interruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr R, as the director of S, has brought the complaint on its behalf. Covea uses agents to 
handle claims and complaints on its behalf but, for ease, I will refer to Covea throughout.  
What happened
S is a restaurant and has made three claims under its business policy with Covea for 
business interruption losses arising from the Government restrictions imposed as a result of 
the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The first claim was for the period from March 2020. Covea rejected this claim in May 2020. S 
has issued legal proceedings against Covea in relation to this claim. I do not know if the 
proceedings have been concluded or not but in any case, I am unable to consider this claim 
in this decision. 
S made two further claims for two later periods of lockdown: 5 November 2020 to 2 
December 2020 and 9 January 2021 to 27 May 2021. I understand S asked the court for the 
second and third claims to be added to the legal proceedings but Covea told us this was 
refused.  
Covea rejected both claims. The policy renewed in June 2020 and Covea changed the terms 
of cover under the business interruption section of the policy. Covea says the policy in place 
at the time of the second and third claims potentially covered closure of the premises as a 
result of a manifestation of disease at the premises but the diseases covered did not include 
Covid-19. Covea also considered whether there was cover under the core business 
interruption cover and the denial of access extension to the core cover but said these both 
required there to have been damage to property, which there wasnt. 
Covea did however, accept that there was a delay in it dealing with the claims, in particular 
the third claim as it mistakenly thought Ss correspondence about this related to Ss first 
claim, which was subject to the legal proceedings and forwarded this to its legal team, rather 
than its claims team. Covea apologised and offered S £300 compensation for the delays. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend it be upheld, as she 
was satisfied that Covea was entitled to refuse cover for the second and third claims, for the 
reasons it did. 
Mr R is very unhappy with this and does not accept the Investigators assessment. Mr R has 
made a number of points in support of his initial complaint and in response to the 
Investigator. I have considered everything he has said. A lot of the points made by Mr R 
relate to the policy wording in place at the time of the first claim and which are not therefore 
relevant to the second and third claims. I have summarised his main points, relevant to this 
complaint below: 
The cover provided under his 2019 to 2020 policy was for an indemnity period of up 
to 24 months, so the policy wording cannot be changed and wont be effective until 
the Covid-19 restrictions were lifted in full. 
The policy that was in place from June 2019 to June 2020 provided cover for his 
claim under two different sections of cover: denial of access to the premises as a 
result of damage and notifiable diseases. 
Ss claim is based on the damage caused by Covid-19 in the vicinity of the premises 
by the Government instruction to close dining facilities and restrictions on how they 
could operate when they reopened from March 2020 to August 2021. The lockdown 
periods might have been different but the business interruption continued throughout 
this time.
Covea says there has to be property damage for there to be cover under the denial 
of access section but this is not correct. The policy wording means it provides cover 
for loss that is not physical damage. 
The road his premises were on was closed by its local authority to cars, so that 
pedestrians could safely socially distance, which interrupted its takeaway business. 
He has provided a letter from his local authority confirming it was closed the week of 
29 June 2020 to 2 August 2021. 
The denial of access clause refers to damage under Section 1 of the policy, which is 
about cover for contents. The Investigator did not interpret the denial of access 
clause properly. It is only the wording in Section 2 business interruption section of the 
policy thats relevant and not Sections 1,4 or 6. 
The policy covers business interruption or interference (not just complete closure) 
within the vicinity of the insured premises as a result of damage and damage is 
defined as loss, destruction or other cause  which would include the Government 
restrictions. 
The Government restrictions caused direct damage to the business, which are 
covered under the denial of access section of cover. There is no need for property 
damage but the existence of Covid-19 caused damage to the vicinity.
The policy also provides cover for business interruption caused by sanitary 
arrangements and the restrictions imposed including social distancing rules were 
clearly a sanitary arrangement.
The Supreme Courts judgment in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business 
interruption test case stated the insured peril was Covid-19, and not a particular 
outbreak of the disease, wherever or whenever the disease occurs without any 
geographical or temporal limits. 
He contacted Covea over 30 times over eight months but it refused to consider the 
claim and breached the (FCA) regulations which require it to treat customers fairly. 
Government announcements were that insurer should meet claims made by 
businesses and the High Court and Supreme Court in their judgments on the test 
case, confirmed that the Government restrictions were restrictions imposed on 
businesses even if they were not legally enforceable. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
Mr R has complained about the second and third claims, relating to two different lockdown 
periods. As they are separate claims, I am only going to address the claim for the period 
November to December 2020 (the second claim) in this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ss business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if Covea has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ss claim.
Applicable policy wording
Mr S says the cover provides an indemnity limit of up to 24 months, so any changes to the 
policy that started in June 2020 are irrelevant, given the cause of his claim started in the 
previous policy period. 
I do not agree. The policy is an annual renewable contract, so each policy contract runs for a 
year. The contract in place from June 2019 to June 2020, provided cover for business 
interruption for up to 24 months. This means that if a valid claim is made within that policy 
year, cover will continue for as long as the business interruption caused by that insured 
event continues, up to a maximum period of 24 months. It does not extend those policy 
terms for 24 months. That policy ended in June 2002 and a new policy started. 
The claim Mr R made within the 2019 to 2020 policy year was for a period of business 
interruption from March 2020, so even if that claim was covered, the claim Im considering 
arose from events that happened within the policy year June 2020 to June 2021, so it is this 
policy wording that applies. 
Core Business interruption cover
Section 2 of the policy provides cover for business interruption. The core cover under this 
section of the policy states:
In the event of the Business at the Premises being interrupted or interfered with as a 
direct result of Damage insured under Sections 1 4 or 6 of this Policy and liability for 
such Damage being admitted under this policy covering your interest in such 
property insures we will indemnify you 
Section 1 of the policy covers the business contents and sets out a number of specific 
insured perils, such as storm, flood and theft, that would trigger cover under that section. 
Section 4 covers glassware and section 6 covers buildings for the same specified insured 
perils as listed in Section 1. 
Mr R says Sections 1,4 and 6 of the policy are irrelevant to his claim, as he is only claiming 
for business interruption. I do not agree. The policy cover is clear that business interruption 
losses will only be covered if they relate to damage, to the buildings or contents, caused by 
one of the insured perils listed in Section 1 or Section 4 of the policy. I do not think this is 
unfair or unreasonable. 
Damage is defined in the policy as being: 
loss or destruction of or damage to Property insured by an Insured Peril or any other 
cause insured under the respective Section other than as excluded hereafter. Mr R also says that this definition of damage is wide enough to cover loss of use and loss 
even where there hasnt been physical damage.
I do not agree that the definition of damage widens the cover provided to losses to a 
business by whatever cause. The definition says it includes loss, destruction or damage to 
property caused by one of the listed insured perils or any other cause insured under the 
respective Section. There is no other cause of damage or loss insured under these sections 
of the policy that would apply to Ss claim in my opinion.  And the loss or damage has to be 
to property and not to the business.  
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to the property S used as 
its premises so I dont think this provides cover for its claim.
In addition, I note that at renewal in June 2020 an exclusion was added to the business 
interruption section of cover as follows: 
Virus or Disease
We will not be liable for loss damage liability claim cost or expense directly or 
indirectly caused by contributed to by resulting from or arising out of any infectious or 
contagious virus or disease but this exclusion shall not apply in respect of     
Extension 3.
As Ss claim arises directly from the Covid-19 virus, this exclusion would also apply to the 
claim. However, even without the exclusion, the claim isnt covered under this section of the 
policy. 
The main business interruption cover in Section 2 of the policy, includes certain extensions 
including disease and denial of access. I will consider each of these below.
Denial of access 
Section 2 Extension 1 of the policy states that it covers: 
Loss as insured by this Section resulting from interruption of or interference with the 
Business in consequence of Damage insured under Section 1 to property in the 
vicinity of the Premises which shall prevent or hinder the use of or access to the 
Premises whether your property or Premises be damaged or not. 
Mr R is adamant that cover is triggered under this extension and I note that Mr R has 
provided evidence that the road Ss premises are on was closed to vehicles and this 
hindered its customers access to the premises. 
However, again for there to be cover under this extension, there has to have been damage 
to property as a result of the insured perils listed in Section 1 of the property, none of which 
apply. I do not think a closure of a road to cars, in order to help pedestrians socially distance,  
would amount to damage; and there is no evidence of any other damage. In addition, the 
exclusion for claims arising directly or indirectly from a virus or disease would also apply to 
this extension. 
I do not therefore think there is cover under this section of the policy either. 
Disease Clause
Extension 3 states that it covers:Loss as insured by this Section resulting from closure of the Premises or part thereof 
on the order or stipulation of any government or local authority as a result of any of 
the following occurring during the Period of Insurance
a) any Specified Infectious Disease manifested by any person whilst at the 
Premises (but excluding any Specified Infectious Disease manifested by any 
person whilst at the Premises which at the time of its manifestation is Pandemic) 

Special provisions
For the purposes of this Extension Specified Infectious Disease shall mean any 
of the following diseases sustained by any person acute encephalitis acute 
infectious hepatitis acute meningitis acute poliomyelitis anthrax botulism 
brucellosis choler diphtheria enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid) food poisoning 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS) infectious bloody diarrhoea invasive Group 
A streptococcal disease legionellosis leprosy malaria measles meningococcal 
septicaemia mumps plague rabies rubella scarlet fever smallpox tetanus 
tuberculosis typhus viral haemorrhagic fever (VHF) whooping cough and yellow 
fever.
As Covid-19 is not included in this list, it is not covered by this section of cover. It is generally 
up to insurers to decide what cover they want to provide for the premium charged and Covea 
decided to only cover the diseases specified in this list. I do not think this is inherently unfair 
or unreasonable. 
Sanitary arrangements 
The disease extension also covers 
any accident causing defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the 
Premises which causes restrictions on the use of the Premises on the order or advice 
of the competent local authority.
Mr R says that the social distancing measures and other restrictions imposed were sanitary 
arrangements to help prevent the spread of disease, so cover should be provided under this 
section as well. 
I do not think that the Covid-19 restrictions would reasonably be considered to be the result 
of an accident or to be a defect in Ss sanitary arrangements. Im not persuaded that the 
normal operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a defect specific to 
Ss premises in particular that led to the Governments decision to introduce the restrictions it 
did. 
For these reasons, I dont think this extension covers Ss claims either.
Other factors 
Although S might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood 
the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on 
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Ss policy provides cover 
for its claim.
S has also complained about the time taken by Covea to deal with its claim and failure to 
respond to communications. I can see that this has been a difficult time for Mr R. However, I 
can only make an award that recognises the impact of any wrongdoing on an eligible 
complainant. In this instance, the eligible complainant is a limited company, rather than an individual. A limited company cannot suffer distress or frustration and so I cannot make an 
award in this category. I can however, make an award for inconvenience if appropriate. 
S was informed of Coveas decision on the claim (for the period November to December 
2020) in February 2021. I cannot see that there were any avoidable delays in the handling of 
this claim and do not intend to make any award for compensation. 
I understand this isnt the outcome S was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay its claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman