DRN-4106419
The complaint
Ms C and Mr R complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited unfairly increased the 
cost of their home insurance policy and incorrectly recorded a claim theyd made under their 
home emergency cover.
What happened
Ms C and Mr R held a household insurance policy that was underwritten by Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) since 2018. Their policy renewed on 6 April each year.
On 27 February 2022, RSA sent Ms C and Mr R a renewal invitation, which offered to renew 
their policy on the same terms for a cost of £420.17.
Ms C and Mr R were unhappy with renewal quote they received. They said their renewal 
premium had increased by over 65% from the previous year even though they hadnt made 
any changes to their policy. And they noticed there were 4 accidental damage claims 
recorded under their claim history. They said this was incorrect because theyd only made 
one claim under their home emergency cover in late 2021. 
Ms C and Mr R contacted RSA to discuss their renewal quote on 11 March 2022. During this 
telephone call, Ms C and Mr R say RSA confirmed that their no claims discount (NCD) 
remained at 7 years, which provided a discount of 25%. But they say they werent told 
specific information about why the premium had increased as this was commercially 
sensitive.
Ms C and Mr R said they had subsequent discussions and spent a lot of time trying to 
understand what had led to their premium increasing. But they werent provided with a 
detailed explanation. They believed that this may have been down to a large increase in the 
cost of their accidental damage cover and asked RSA to remove it from their policy.
On 23 March 2022, Ms C and Mr R were sent an amended renewal invitation, which offered 
to renew the policy for £321.74. This quote didnt include accidental damage cover as Ms C 
and Mr R had requested. They went ahead and renewed their policy. But they remained 
unhappy overall with the information theyd been given by RSA about why their renewal 
premium had increased. They felt thered been an unfair increase in the price and 
complained.
Ms C and Mr R told RSA they wanted clear information about why their premium had 
increased by over 65% in 2022. They also stated that, as part of the resolution to their 
complaint, they wanted compensation and for any claim recorded under the accidental 
damage cover to be removed from insurance databases.
When RSA responded to Ms C and Mr Rs complaint it explained that the premium 
increase was in line with its pricing structure and the new rules that had been introduced by 
the FCA in January 2022. So, it said the renewal price was no more expensive than the 
price that would have been quoted to a new customer for the same level of risk and cover. 
RSA accepted that it had incorrectly recorded the home emergency claim as 4 accidental 
damage claims. It apologised for this error and confirmed it had corrected this on the 
insurance database, which now only showed one home emergency claim. It paid Ms C and 
Mr C £75 compensation to resolve their complaint.
RSA also stated that it had made a business decision to alter the layout of its renewal 
documentation, which meant that the NCD saving was no longer detailed on the policy 
schedule. It said, having checked with its pricing department, it was satisfied that the 
correct NCD discount had been applied to Ms C and Mr Rs renewal quote.
Ms C and Mr R were dissatisfied with how RSA had dealt with their complaint. They didnt 
believe it had adequately addressed their questions or concerns. So, they referred their 
complaint to our service. 
An investigator at our service assessed the evidence. As a result of discussions with RSA it 
decided to increase the compensation it had paid Ms C and Mr R by £100 and offered to 
remove all claims that it had recorded from the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE). 
Our investigator was persuaded that what RSA had offered was fair and reasonable and 
didnt recommend it take any further action to resolve this complaint. But Ms C and Mr R 
didnt accept our investigators view of this complaint and requested an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Ms C, Mr R and RSA 
for the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided and if I havent specifically referred to a point made it isnt because I 
havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues namely 
whether RSA acted fairly and reasonably here.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms C and Mr R experienced here. I can appreciate 
why theyre upset by what happened. They said theyve held insurance for a significant 
period and hadnt made any changes to their policy or a claim prior 2021. So, I can 
understand why they want to understand what caused their premium to increase in 2022.  
Id like to make it clear at the outset that I dont have the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. Within my role I can look at whether RSA has treated Ms C 
and Mr R fairly. 
The first part of Ms C and Mr Rs complaint is about the cost of their policy premium 
increasing by around 65% from 2021 to 2022. So, Ill focus on that issue first.
When considering whether RSA has treated Ms C and Mr R unfairly in relation to the pricing 
part of their complaint, Id need to be satisfied that it had unfairly increased the cost of their 
policy in 2022. Im not going to look at anything before that period because Ms C and Mr R 
havent complained to RSA about the cost of any policies they purchased before 2022.
Im satisfied the policy sale here was conducted on a non-advised basis. RSA didnt 
recommend the policy or provide Ms C and Mr R with any advice as its suitability. This means RSA didnt need to make sure that the policy it sold was suitable for Ms C and Mr 
Rs needs. But it had a responsibility to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so they could make an informed decision on whether the policy was suitable.  
Having carefully considered the renewal documentation RSA sent Ms C and Mr R, Im 
satisfied that the policy premium was broken down clearly to show the cost of each 
component part of the cover that had been included. I can see that RSA identified the cost of 
buildings and contents insurance, accidental damage cover and home emergency cover for 
example. 
Im satisfied that the information RSA provided about the cost of cover enabled Ms C and Mr 
R to make an informed decision about whether they wished to amend their level of cover or 
exercise their right to shop around for an alternative or cheaper policy.
Ive mentioned that Ms C and Mr R are unhappy that RSA hasnt disclosed information about 
how it calculates its premiums. While I appreciate why they want this Im persuaded that the 
information theyre seeking is commercially sensitive. 
The insurance market is very competitive. And different insurers calculate premiums in 
different ways  their assessment of risk can vary too. RSA has told our service that there 
are thousands of different rating steps within the premium calculation so a complete line by 
line breakdown is not feasible. 
I accept what RSA has said here because the calculation of a policyholders premium is 
dependent on multiple varied factors, which makes it very difficult to break the cost down. 
And our service wouldnt ask RSA to share its calculations, or other commercially sensitive 
information, with Ms C and Mr R.
RSA has provided information to our service that persuades me that the premium increase in 
2022 was in line with its pricing structure and included changes in inflation and Insurance 
Premium Tax. Its provided information showing how the price of Ms C and Mr Rs policy 
changed from 2018 to 2022.
RSA has said it calculated the premiums for its policies in line with the risk the customer 
presents and the cover it provides. And its also explained that its pricing since January 
2022 has reflected pricing rules that were introduced by the FCA that prevent existing 
customers from being charged more than new customers.
RSA has confirmed that since the FCA changes were implemented its developed a new 
pricing strategy. This strategy has been applied to all policyholders  as well as new 
customers  and has meant that no customer is treated differently. Im satisfied that this new 
pricing structure explains why the cost of policies with RSA have increased overall.
RSA has demonstrated to our service that it priced Ms C and Mr Rs policy the same way it 
would have for any customer in similar circumstances. So, Im satisfied that Ms C and Mr R 
werent charged more than they would have been had they been taking out a policy with 
RSA for the same level of cover and risk for the first time. I therefore dont think RSA unfairly 
increased the price of Ms C and Mr Rs policy to take advantage of their loyalty.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied the price RSA charged represented it treating Ms C and 
Mr R fairly. I dont believe their premium increased because of the incorrectly recorded 
accidental damage claims.I can see that Ms C and Mr R have stated that their policy schedule no longer included 
details of their no claim discount (NCD) premium. So, they werent sure if theyd received a 
discount that properly reflected their claims history. 
I can understand why this information might have been important to Ms C and Mr R  
particularly as they were trying to make sense of a premium increase they werent expecting. 
So, Ive carefully considered whether RSA applied the appropriate discount in this case.
RSA stated that it had decided to alter the layout of its renewal documentation, which meant 
that the NCD saving was no longer detailed on the policy schedule. RSAs decision to make 
changes to the layout is a business decision that its entitled to make. Were not the regulator 
of insurers. So, we cant tell a business to change its policy, or to adopt the changes that Ms 
C and Mr R appear to want here. 
RSA said, having checked with its pricing department, it was satisfied that the correct NCD 
discount had been applied to Ms C and Mr Rs renewal quote even though the NCD 
information wasnt detailed on the documentation theyd received. 
The information received from RSA satisfies me that the only impact of a claim on the price 
of the policy is through the level of NCD discount thats awarded. Here, RSA has shown 
our service that in 2022 Ms C and Mr R received 7 years NCD. This is the maximum NCD 
a policyholder can be awarded by RSA. Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded this 
resulted in Ms C and Mr R receiving the maximum discount of 25% against their premium.
As Ms C and Mr Rs premium was discounted by 25% Im satisfied that the claims that 
were initially incorrectly recorded on the renewal policy schedule havent impacted on that 
discount.
Based on the available evidence that RSA has provided to this service, Im satisfied that, 
while Ms C and Mr Rs policy schedule might not have detailed the discount theyd 
received, their NCD was correctly applied to their policy and premium. And, in the overall 
circumstances, Im persuaded that the home emergency claim that Ms C and Mr R made 
hasnt impacted on their NCD or the pricing of their policy. Im therefore satisfied that the 
premium paid by Ms C and Mr R is reasonable and fair.  
Ill turn now to Ms C and Mr Rs concerns about the claims RSA recorded against their 
policy. 
Its not in dispute that RSA initially recorded 4 accidental claims, which were inaccurate and 
incorrect. This is clearly set out in the policy renewal documentation that Ms C and Mr R 
received in 2022.
Ms C and Mr R asked our service to direct RSA to expunge all claims from their claims 
history and from CUE. I can see that RSA has now done this. Its confirmed to our 
investigator that the claim was removed entirely from CUE. Its also amended the date of 
the claim. 
Had RSA not removed the accidental damage claims from CUE, Id have directed it do so as 
part of this decision. But I would have concluded it was fair and reasonable to report a claim 
under the home emergency cover part of Ms C and Mr Rs policy. This is because RSA is 
required to report accurate information about claims. So, it would have been accurate to 
report that Ms C and Mr R had made a home emergency claim to the CUE database.As RSA has removed any information relating to Ms C and Mr Rs claim from CUE, Im 
satisfied its taken reasonable efforts to correct the incorrect information it initially recorded  
albeit after this complaint was referred to our service.
I can also see that, since this complaint was referred to our service, RSA has added an 
endorsement to Ms C and Mr Rs policy, which states:
This endorsement applies to claims history. The claims dated 19/12/2021, 20/12/2021, 
06/01/2022 and 17/12/2021 have been removed from the Claims Underwriting Exchange.
Based on the evidence available, Im satisfied that RSA has corrected previously 
inaccurately recorded information about Ms C and Mr Rs claim history. 
To recognise the distress and inconvenience Ms C and Mr R were caused by what 
happened, RSA had already paid them £75 compensation. Ive seen an email from RSA to 
Ms C and Mr R confirming that its now agreed to pay an additional £100 compensation in 
relation to this part of their complaint. This brings the total compensation to £175.
Ive considered whether the total compensation paid adequately reflects the trouble and 
upset Ms C and Mr R are bound to have felt as a result of what happened. Having done so, I 
agree with our investigators view that £175 is a fair amount of compensation. I havent seen 
enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is warranted here. And, overall, I think 
the amount already paid is in line with our approach in similar scenarios. So, I wont be 
ordering RSA to pay any more.
Putting things right
As a result of Ms C and Mr R referring their complaint to our service, RSA has now 
expunged all claims that had been recorded from their claim history and paid a further £100 
compensation. So, Im upholding this complaint in part for that reason. But Im satisfied that 
what RSA has done to put matters right is fair and reasonable. It follows that Im not going to 
ask it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited has already corrected Ms C and Mr Rs claims history and paid them an additional 
£100 compensation. So, Im not directing it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman