DRN-3656367
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around September 2017, Mrs M was contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs M decided to purchase the system 
and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In October 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mrs Ms behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mrs 
M to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentation had been 
made:
The financial benefits (including payments from the feed in tariff (FIT) and the 
savings on energy bills) would exceed the total annual loan repayments within 10 years of 
installation. 
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mrs M or that there were 
any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view explaining that they didnt think the 
assumptions used by P in formulating the estimates were correct. The CMC felt the 
estimated benefits were manipulated to appear higher than they were. In particular, the CMC 
felt the estimates associated with the optional extras were not correctly formulated, that P 
hadnt used the average Office of National statistics (ONS) rates for the immediate 10 years 
preceding the sale and that P ought to have used a self-consumption rate of 50%. 
Our investigator explained that overall, we were still satisfied with the assumptions used by 
P at the time of sale. With regard to the optional extra benefits, there were conflicting 
evidence on the benefits that could be attributed to optional extras during the time of sale, 
but wed assessed Ps methods of calculating the voltage optimiser (VO) estimated savings 
and were satisfied that this was likely fair at the time. And the remaining benefits associated 
with the other optional extras didnt account for a significant portion of the annual benefit so 
we didnt think that these would have been a determining factor in inducing Mrs M into the 
sale. 
The CMC subsequently submitted a report by an expert who disagreed with the estimated 
benefits that P had formulated and suggested lower values would have been correct. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs M could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way she could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs M and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mrs M says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing within 10 years. As Mrs Ms loan term was for 15 years, this means she is 
asserting that benefit amounts would need to have exceeded the cost of the loan during the 
10 years. 
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The cost of the system 
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mrs M was told that the cost of the system was £12,336.45. The quote sets 
this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash 
price of the system was £12,336.45. The total amount of credit is £12,236.45 (after 
deducting a deposit of £100) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£23,100.40.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £130.75. But I note 
Mrs Ms credit agreement shows her monthly payment is marginally different at £127.78  
but I dont think this difference makes the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
she was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £12,336.45, it 
would cost Mrs M more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing 
loan. 
Self-funding from the outset 
Mrs M has indicated that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered (or 
exceeded), or self-funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills so it would be 
self-funding within 10 years. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as the 
consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most 
likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs M could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs M could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £193.55, which results in an average monthly income of £16.12. The 
quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs M could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £343.24 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs M the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£1,107.32. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £130.75 (which is £1,569 annually). As a result, Im not able to conclude 
that the consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
payment and savings on energy bills  as there is a considerable annual shortfall. 
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs M entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £130.75. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £130.75, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs M could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by way of FIT 
income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly 
loan repayments. In fact, the deficit in the first year is shown as almost £40 a month.
This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT payments and 
savings would cover the loan repayment. Where its been made clear that the annual 
benefits are likely to be significantly less than the annual cost for the first 6 years, Im not 
persuaded that P asserted that the system would nevertheless be self-funding within 10 
years. 
Ive carefully thought about the consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that 
the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at 
the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and additional savings.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Self-funding over a period of time 
That said, I do accept that Mrs M was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 14 the overall benefits that Mrs M could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs M that the system would pay for itself by 
year 14, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the 
contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs M. The MCS certificate sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 2662.87 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs Ms FIT statements and meter reading and can see what the solar 
panels are generating on average annually. Im satisfied that the system is performing at 
around the expected level of performance.
Assumptions used 
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation and this was set out clearly in the quote. I have looked at the 
actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have been lower than 
predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why she hasnt been receiving the 
financial returns she may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy 
prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the 
energy generated by the system have been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015 and while that may not have been the 10 years 
immediately preceding the sale, it was made clear what rates were being used. I dont 
consider it unreasonable for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential 
financial income Mrs M couldve expected to receive from the system. I can appreciate that 
the returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, but Im not 
persuaded that this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time 
Mrs M entered into the contract.
Ive also thought carefully about the CMCs comments, especially about the self-
consumption rate and the savings associated with the optional extras such as the VO. Ive 
considered everything provided by the CMC but only address the most salient points below. 
P says its method of calculating the savings were in line with regulations at the time of sale.  
How P calculated the savings was also explained in the quote, with reference to a specific 
report that informed its method of calculation. The quote also included the following 
statement alongside the figures for electricity savings from the voltage optimiser and the 
other optional extras:
Savings are dependent on individual circumstances and may be higher or lower than 
those stated above and are based on the manufacturers own figures.
I think there were a number of reports which found that voltage optimisers could provide 
various levels of benefit. I think that Ps estimated voltage optimiser savings in this case are 
not outside of a reasonable range even if there is an expert who now thinks it ought to have 
been lower. It appears to me that P estimated the benefit of the voltage optimiser based on 
what it knew about the product it was selling, Mrs Ms home and how she used electricity, with a clear explanation as to how it was formulated and that it could be different based on 
consumers individual circumstances. I am not persuaded that Ps estimate of the benefit of 
the voltage optimiser was unreasonable at the time it was made. 
And, as explained above, P has also confirmed theyre methods were in line with regulations 
when the quote was prepared around six years ago.  Additionally, as our investigator already 
explained, the remaining benefits associated with the optional extras didnt form a significant 
part of the benefit. Mrs M also didnt mention any concerns over the extras in her original 
complaint  only raising these concerns more recently. So, Im not satisfied that these were, 
in any event, a determining factor in her decision to proceed with the sale. 
Regarding the self-consumption rate, my understanding is that P tailored the self-
consumption rate based on what it knew about the customer and how she used electricity. 
The CMC has argued that P shouldve used the industry standard self-consumption rate of 
50% when calculating the savings. But I dont think it was unreasonable for P to tailor the 
self-consumption rate based on the information available to it. Ive seen it use differing rates 
for different consumers indicating it was tailoring it to each specific consumer. And I have not 
seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that the self-consumption rate used by P was 
unreasonable in this instance. 
Ive also considered the other points the CMC has made such as P asserting the quotes 
were checked by another body EPVS, but that P wasnt a member until 2019. But P says it 
didnt assert that its methods were checked by EPVS at the time of sale, and it doesnt look 
like this was mentioned anywhere in this quote. Overall, the CMCs points dont change my 
view of the complaint. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs M to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
So overall, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly when refusing to 
accept this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman