DRN-3587235
The complaint
Mr S complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc settled a claim made by another driver on his 
motor insurance policy against his wishes and now wants to recover its outlay from him.
What happened
Mr S told us that Pinnacle accepted liability on his behalf, despite the fact that hed told it the 
other driver was at fault for a collision. He said Pinnacle promised to defend the claim but 
then cancelled the policy. It requires him to refund the sum it paid out (just under £25,000 - 
plus the cost of debt collection charges  making the total sum over £29,000). 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ss complaint and noted that because Mr S hadnt co-
operated fully with Pinnacle, it advised his solicitors in July 2016 that it wouldnt be 
indemnifying the claim. It said any costs payable would be for Mr S to deal with. Pinnacle 
had told Mr S in February 2016 that he was in breach of the policys terms and conditions 
and that it intended to settle the claim. It cancelled the policy in July 2016. In the meantime, 
Mr S had told his solicitors to enter a defence to the other drivers claim and to make a 
counter claim on his behalf. 
The investigator noted that neither Mr S nor his solicitors attended the subsequent court 
hearing, but the court documents showed that the judge had dismissed Mr Ss defence and 
counter claim. The judge thought Mr S had been fundamentally dishonest  and found in 
favour of the other driver. As Mr Ss previous insurer, Pinnacle had obligations under the 
Road Traffic Act 1988, and it was required to pay the entire sum due. The investigator 
thought it was reasonable for Pinnacle to try to recover its outlay later from Mr S. 
Mr S said he wanted the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said hed gather 
more evidence in support of his complaint, but he hasnt provided any further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr S decided to make a claim on the other drivers policy rather than on his own 
policy, he was still required to report the accident to Pinnacle, but he didnt do so. And once 
the other driver made a claim on Mr Ss policy, Mr S had a duty to co-operate fully with 
Pinnacle. It had to decide whether to defend her claim, and if so, how best to do that.  
From the documents Ive seen, I think its clear that Mr S didnt co-operate fully with 
Pinnacle. He had to be chased by it to complete an accident report form and he didnt ever 
make his car available for Pinnacles engineer to inspect. In these circumstances, I think it 
was in line with the policys terms and conditions  as well as fair and reasonable - for 
Pinnacle to decide not to indemnify Mr S, and to cancel the policy. 
Had Mr S not entered a defence and made a counter claim through his solicitors, in my 
opinion its likely that Pinnacle would have settled the other drivers claim. Theres evidence 
on the file that it tried to do so in 2016 and that it paid for the damage to her car around that 
time. But Mr S chose to pursue legal action. It seems the overall size of his counter claim 
(which included personal injury) meant it couldnt be dealt with in the small claims fast-track 
process. So considerable extra costs built up that may otherwise have been avoided. 
Following the court judgement, Pinnacle had to pay the other drivers claim, plus all the court 
costs, including all the legal fees (given the judges finding of fundamental dishonesty). That 
meant the total sum Pinnacle had to cover was much higher than it would have been if the 
claim had been settled earlier, which Pinnacle had wanted to do. I think it was reasonable for 
it to try to claim back its losses from Mr S.  
I dont think Mr S has shown that Pinnacle acted unreasonably in the way it dealt with the 
claim on the policy or in the way it dealt with him. Hes suggested that Pinnacle offered to 
defend the claim, but then stopped communicating with him, which is why he instructed 
solicitors. But that isnt borne out by the evidence Ive seen, which shows that Mr S had 
instructed solicitors before Pinnacle knew anything about the accident. As far as I can see, 
Pinnacle gave him sound advice from the outset and tried to settle the claim in a way that 
would have meant costs were kept as low as possible. 
Mr S has found himself in a very difficult financial position and he says his credit record and 
his health have been affected. He wants Pinnacle to accept that he wasnt at fault for the 
accident and not require him to pay anything other than the policy excess. But a judge has 
decided that he was at fault for the accident, and Pinnacle had to act in line with the courts 
decision. I understand why Mr S is distressed and worried about his situation, but I dont 
think it was caused by any fault on Pinnacles part. As I dont think Pinnacle did anything 
wrong, I cant uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman