DRN-4349329
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax closed her account and 
registered a default in respect of her overdraft when she advised that she was not going 
ahead with a proposed IVA (Individual Voluntary Arrangement).
What happened
On 21 October 2022, Mrs P notified Halifax that she proposed to enter into an IVA. She 
changed her mind and advised Halifax of this on 24 October. Halifax advised that it needed 
confirmation from the IVA practitioner. It went ahead and closed her account on 27 October. 
The account was in overdraft so Halifax registered this as a default. Mrs P obtained 
confirmation from the IVA practitioner and provided this to Halifax on 9 November. She said 
she didn't realise that Halifax was taking the action it did. It offered her £40 for the confusion 
caused.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that Halifax had not 
given Mrs P adequate opportunity to provide the confirmation from the IVA practitioner. He 
proposed that Halifax remove the default from Mrs P's credit file.
Halifax said it couldn't do that as with the balance still showing on the overdraft, it would 
continue to be reported as being in default. It agreed however to write off the balance which 
stood at £1,089. It would then remove the default. Mrs P accepted this as a resolution to the 
matter.
Halifax went ahead and wrote off the overdraft balance. It advised that it had taken the 
necessary action with the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). However Mrs P advised that 
one CRA was continuing to report the balance on the overdraft and the default. 
Halifax said it cleared the balance to nil, on 15 May 2023. Amendments were done, and it  
then put another request through to remove all negative credit file impact. This was keyed in 
in August to try to resolve it. It felt the issue was resolved based on credit file data received 
after this, however, on reviewing the credit file supplied by Mrs P it accepted that it was 
possible there was still an issue, so it requested a full deletion of the account. It offered £250 
for the continuing delay in getting the credit file amended.
Mrs B said she wished to reopen the whole complaint and said that Halifaxs offer was far 
too low. She proposed that it pay £1,500.
Halifax said its offer was reasonable, so the matter has been passed to me for further 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I have to consider Halifaxs original resolution of this matter, and whether I think 
that was fair and reasonable. 
It is probably unusual for a customer to say they are entering into an IVA and then change 
their mind. I think it was reasonable for Halifax to freeze the account on being informed 
about the proposed IVA, but not to close it immediately and then apply a default. Mrs P 
appeared to have been running the overdraft with Halifaxs consent reasonably. So I think 
Halifaxs offer of compensation didnt really resolve the issue at hand. I think that the 
Investigators proposed resolution of the matter, to ask Halifax to remove the default marker 
on Mrs Ps credit file, was reasonable.
As it transpired, Halifax agreed to write off the overdraft and to remove the default marker. 
I think this was a substantial benefit to Mrs P. She no longer has the overdraft and doesnt 
have the worry of keeping to a payment arrangement which would have affected her credit 
file.
I appreciate that Mrs P believes that this had a knock on effect on her credit rating. Also she 
has suffered the stress, time and effort as well as the knock on effect this has had on her 
financial plans. I don't know enough about Mrs P's financial circumstances to say that the 
presence of the default and the outstanding overdraft is solely responsible for her credit 
rating being poor. However I think it unlikely. Even to propose entering into an IVA must 
have meant that Mrs P had substantial debts.
Mrs P also asserts that her in-laws were paying her £100 a month towards childcare costs. 
When the account was closed her in-laws couldn't make arrangements to pay that into a 
different account. However I don't think that was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of 
Halifax closing the account and it has advised us that Mrs P was paying £100 a month to 
reduce her overdraft, which she no longer has to do.
So I think that the original resolution of this matter, which arose after the complaint was 
made to the Financial Ombudsman Service, was a fair and reasonable result.
As for Halifax implementing the removal of the default and recording the overdraft balance 
as being nil, I can understand Mrs Ps frustration that, in respect of one CRA, the overdraft 
and the default kept being reported. It's difficult to know whether Halifax made an error here 
or whether it was the fault of the CRA. Ive set out above the steps that Halifax took. And 
I note that it was reported to Halifax as being resolved. Certainly on its internal records the 
balance was shown as being nil.
Nevertheless the matter was prolonged for several months. I think that, for the extra stress 
caused to Mrs P, the proposed payment of £250 is fair and reasonable. I will direct Halifax to 
make that payment, but I don't consider that it should increase it.
Putting things right
Halifax has reduced Mrs Ps overdraft balance to nil. 
If it has not already done so, Halifax should take all the necessary steps to ensure that any 
default markers in respect of the overdraft have been removed from all internal and external 
databases.
Halifax should pay Mrs P £250.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman