DRN-3115149
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with what Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd did after he made a claim on his 
gadget insurance policy (for a damaged laptop).
What happened
In October 2019 Mr L took out a gadget insurance policy with Bastion. He had problems 
finding the model number for his laptop on the sellers website and emailed separately with 
this information. The seller confirmed it had logged this information on file and had notified 
its IT team of a possible problem. 
Mr L made a claim on his policy in December 2020 as his laptop was damaged. Bastion 
initially turned this down because he hadnt met the validation requirements of his policy. 
However, after that complaint was made to us our investigator said he didnt think it was fair 
to apply that term because of the difficulties Mr L experienced when taking out the policy and 
what he was told at that time. Bastion agreed to consider the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms. 
Having done so it said the maximum payable under the policy was the current economic 
value of the gadget. In this case, having looked at adverts for similar laptops, it thought this 
was £124. It said if Mr L returned the old laptop to it then it would pay that amount (and 
wouldnt apply an excess as a gesture of goodwill). Alternatively, if Mr L wished to keep his 
old laptop it would settle the claim for £74 (£124 less the excess of £50). 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded the adverts Bastion provided showed it had reached a fair 
valuation of Mr Ls laptop. Equally he didnt think the evidence Mr L provided would lead to a 
fair valuation as this information related to new or refurbished laptops. He said Bastion 
should pay £450 plus simple interest at 8% from when the claim should have been settled 
(December 2020) until the date it actually was. He also thought Bastion should pay Mr L £50 
in recognition of the inconvenience hed been caused. 
Mr L agreed. Bastion didnt and said it thought the offer it had made was fair and in line with 
the policy terms. It also pointed out it had agreed to waive the policy excess as a gesture of 
goodwill. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Bastion has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
In this case following discussion with our investigator Bastion has now accepted the claim Mr 
L made. The issue in dispute (and which I need to decide) is whether its offer to settle the 
claim is fair. 
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy. I can see these do limit claims to 
the current economic value of Your Gadget.
The policy also says that information on the potential cost of a repair must be provided and 
We will assess the estimate provided and a decision will be made on whether to repair the 
Gadget, write it off at the current economic value, or provide a replacement Gadget of 
equivalent age and value. 
It goes on to say We will source alternative quotes in order to value the economic damage 
to Your Gadget and will only offer you the lowest figure available.
I understand Bastion has accepted the laptop should be written off so under the terms of the 
policy it should pay Mr L its current economic value. Ive reviewed the information its 
provided to see if its offered a fair amount. Bastion has provided three listings from a 
classified ads website. I dont think its unreasonable in principle for Bastion to use prices on 
sites like this as a starting point. But in considering whether a fair valuation has been offered 
we would expect it to show Mr L had a reasonable choice of equivalent laptops from 
reputable sellers on those sites. I dont think that is the case here.  
Ive looked at the listings Bastion provided and Im not persuaded these are for equivalent 
laptops to Mr Ls. They appear to be for different models and in some cases have smaller 
screens or less memory. Nor is there any clear indication as to the age of these laptops or 
evidence of what their condition is. And the sellers are individuals with no information 
provided about their rating or selling history on the site. 
As a result, Im not satisfied Bastion has evidenced its valuation is fair. Im more persuaded 
by the information Mr L sent as the links hes provided to (for example) auction sites do 
relate to the correct model of laptop and appear to be from reputable sellers. But I also share 
our investigators concerns about this information. While the laptops are the correct model 
they appear to have different specifications (for example some have more memory). And 
they are either new or refurbished models which isnt something his policy offers. 
So Ive thought about what a fair valuation for Mr Ls laptop would be. I do accept its difficult 
now to establish exactly what this should have been given the passage of time. But he 
bought the laptop for around £1000 in September 2019 and his claim was made (and should 
have been settled) in December 2020.  Taking that into account alongside the other 
evidence I think a fair economic value for the laptop would be £500. 
I appreciate Bastion might argue that means the laptop should be repaired rather than being 
written off. But Mr L has provided evidence to show it couldnt be repaired because parts 
werent available. And given the time that has passed since he made his claim I think the 
fairest way to now resolve his complaint would be for Bastion to cash settle the claim. So it 
will need to pay Mr L £450 as recommended by our investigator (the value of the laptop less 
the policy excess). 
Bastion will also need to pay interest at 8% simple on that amount from the date the claim 
should have been paid (December 2020) until the date it actually is. I also agree Mr L has 
been caused some unnecessary inconvenience by what Bastion got wrong and a payment 
of £50 would be a reasonable way of recognising the impact of this on him. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd will need pay Mr L £450 in settlement of his claim. It will also need to pay interest at 8% simple on that amount from the 
date the claim should have been paid (December 2020) until the date it actually is*. And it 
will need to pay a further £50 in recognition of the inconvenience hes been caused. 
* If Bastion considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman