DRN-3780871
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) didnt let her know the Money 
Purchase Annual Allowance (MPAA) implications of making her requested withdrawal from 
her Group Personal Pension (GPP) in October 2017. She said she was under the 
impression her withdrawal was Tax-Free Cash (TFC).
What happened
Mrs J has a GPP with SWL. In October 2017, she said she asked SWL to arrange a TFC 
withdrawal of £5,000. 
SWL processed Mrs Js withdrawal as a Partial Pension Encashment (PPE). This meant that 
she withdrew a total of £5,796.85 from her GPP. 25% of this - £1,449.21 - was paid as TFC. 
And the remaining £4,347.64 was paid as a taxable lump sum. After £796.87 tax had been 
taken, Mrs J received £4,999.98. 
After the withdrawal, Mrs J received tax charges in relation to her ongoing pension 
contributions. She said she didnt understand why at the time.
Mrs J now understands that as the withdrawal was processed as a PPE, tax was payable on 
part of the withdrawn funds. And also led to Mrs J being subject to the MPAA. Mrs J said that 
if SWL had made her aware of this at the time, she wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
withdrawal.
SWLs call notes showed that Mrs J had changed her address with it on 23 May 2019. This 
was noted as changing from the address SWL sent its 2017 correspondence to, to the 
address Mrs J used on her complaint form to this service.
Mrs J complained to SWL in January 2022. She felt that SWL had failed in its duty to treat 
her fairly. She said that as she was over age 55 at the time she requested the £5,000, shed 
assumed it would be paid as TFC. She said she didnt understand why it hadnt been. 
Mrs J said she now had a copy of the statement SWL had sent to her after the withdrawal 
had been completed which showed that itd been taxed. She said she also now had a copy 
of another letter from SWL from October 2017 in which itd explained the restrictions on 
future pension contributions due to the withdrawal. She didnt think the explanation had been 
clear. And complained that she now had to pay 40% tax on any annual contributions to her 
GPP above £4,000.
SWL issued its final response to the complaint on 4 May 2022. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It said itd sent Mrs J illustrations and had discussions with her about how 
the withdrawal might affect her in future. It said it had provided Mrs J with information so she 
could make an informed choice. And that she couldve contacted it about her decision. 
Mrs J was unhappy with SWLs response, so brought her complaint to this service in July 
2022. She said that when shed asked SWL for £5,000 from her GPP, itd told her it could 
move £20,000 if she needed to drawdown. But shed re-iterated that she only wanted 
£5,000. She said shed understood that she was simply taking £5,000 of TFC.
Mrs J said that although SWL had said itd made her aware that the MPAA would be 
triggered after the withdrawal, she hadnt been fully informed. She said if that had been the 
case, she wouldnt have continued with the withdrawal, as she was entitled to contribute 
more than £4,000 each year to her pension. Mrs J also said that it had been her intention to 
not only contribute her full allowance through her company, but also future bonuses. Mrs J 
would like the withdrawal to be treated as TFC and to be put back into a position where she 
can contribute to her GPP without being constrained by the MPAA.
Our investigator issued his first view on the complaint on 15 September 2022. He didnt 
consider that it should be upheld. He acknowledged that Mrs J had said that she didnt get 
the information SWL had sent to her at the time of the withdrawal. But felt that SWL had 
taken reasonable steps to make Mrs J aware that it was processing a PPE. And what the 
consequences of that would be. 
Mrs J didnt agree with our investigator. She said that although shed had a call with SWL on 
22 September 2017, she didnt understand what itd told her about potentially withdrawing 
£20,000. She said shed asked SWL to explain why this was necessary. She felt that the fact 
that shed told SWL that she didnt want £20,000 shouldve prompted it to realise that she 
didnt understand a fundamental point. 
Mrs J also said that she hadnt received the letters SWL had sent to her around the time of 
the withdrawal. She said she only got copies of the letters in December 2021. As such, she 
said she couldnt have queried why her withdrawal request had been administered as a PPE 
at the time. She still felt shed been treated unfairly. And that SWL shouldnt have processed 
the withdrawal as it had. 
Our investigator acknowledged that Mrs J had said shed not received SWLs payment 
correspondence at the time. But said that after her 22 September 2017 call with SWL, it had 
sent her further information which explained how the PPE would affect her in future. He felt 
this meant SWL had met its obligations. Mrs J said she hadnt received any of this 
documentation at the time of the withdrawal either. And repeated that if shed understood the 
impact of the withdrawal at the time she wouldve stopped her request. She said that a 
drawdown wouldnt have triggered the MPAA.
Given SWL had already confirmed to this service that a copy of the 22 September 2017 call 
was no longer available, our investigator asked SWL for a copy of its call notes.
SWL provided the call notes it had for the 22 September 2017 call. These said:
Quote, PPE illustration and Undecided letter issued via post and email links with RA guide 
issued.
SWL also provided a call note from 31 August 2017. This said: confirmed to the member 
that she can fully or do a partial encashment of the policy.
Our investigator issued an updated view on 2 November 2022. He still didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He said that the call notes SWL had provided showed that Mrs 
J had also spoken to SWL on 31 August 2017. He said that during this call, SWL had 
confirmed to Mrs J that she could do a full or partial encashment of her policy. He felt this 
showed thered been a discussion behind partial encashment. 
Our investigator also felt that the call notes from the 22 September 2017 call showed that 
SWL had agreed to send Mrs J correspondence after the call, which Mrs J had told this service she didnt receive at the time. He was satisfied that SWL had sent out 
correspondence to make Mrs J aware that her withdrawal would trigger the MPAA. And that 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold it responsible if Mrs J hadnt received it. He felt it 
wouldve been reasonable for Mrs J to have chased SWL for the correspondence she didnt 
receive following the call on 22 September 2017. And also the correspondence confirming 
her withdrawal.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that SWL took 
reasonable steps to make Mrs J aware of the implications of taking the withdrawal. I know 
this will be disappointing to Mrs J. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the submissions that have 
been made by Mrs J and SWL. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, Ive 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive looked at what 
evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to, or should, have happened. 
Ill first cover a little of the background of the MPAA. 
MPAA
With the advent of greater pension freedoms in April 2015, more people flexibly accessed 
their pensions and then had the potential to add money back into the pension, obtaining 
further tax relief at a later date. To restrict this, the MPAA was introduced on 6 April 2015. It 
was originally set at £10,000. But the government reduced it to £4,000 on contributions 
made from 6 April 2017. The MPAA is the maximum that can be paid into a money purchase 
pension scheme and receive tax relief. 
Once a consumer starts to take an income or taxable lump sums (as opposed to taking a 
tax-free lump sum), the MPAA applies.  Taking just the tax-free lump sum without any 
taxable income or taxable lump sums doesnt trigger the reduced annual allowance.
Mrs J said that she hadnt understood what SWL had told her about potentially withdrawing 
£20,000 during the 22 September 2017 call. She said that the system notes SWL had 
provided should show that during the call she questioned why it was necessary to take 
£20,000 to receive £5,000. She felt this query shouldve made SWL aware that she wanted 
to withdraw the money as TFC. She also felt that the fact that shed told SWL that she didnt 
want £20,000 shouldve prompted it to realise that she didnt understand a fundamental 
point. Mrs J also felt that a £20,000 drawdown wouldnt have triggered the MPAA.
Ive reviewed the information SWL provided to Mrs J around the time of the withdrawal, as 
well as the system notes SWL has provided for the 2017 calls Mrs J had with it. These show 
that Mrs J called SWL on 31 August 2017 to discuss a withdrawal from her GPP. 
The system notes for the call on 22 September 2017, in which Mrs J also discussed her 
withdrawal, said that the quote, PPE illustration and Undecided letters had all been issued 
by post. And that email links had also been sent. SWL also told this service that Mrs J wouldve been taken through a retirement journey call, for which scripting had been 
employed. It said this wouldve included a high level of detail, explaining what options are 
available. And that this included how much she was looking to withdraw and the tax payable. 
SWL said Mrs J wouldve verbally agreed that she was happy to proceed and that she was 
comfortable with all the information provided to her.
SWL also said that it emailed Mrs J on 22 September 2017 to confirm that the illustration 
had been issued in the post. SWL said that the tax implications wouldve been covered 
during the calls in relation to PPE. And in the paperwork itd issued afterwards. 
SWL wrote to Mrs J on 22 September 2017 to thank her for her recent telephone enquiry. 
The letter said: The Partial Encashment Illustration and Standard Guaranteed Income 
Quote have been issued via post today.
SWL sent a further letter on the same date with information intended to give Mrs J: an 
overview of how a PPE could affect your pension savings. The letter went on to invite Mrs J 
to call SWL if she wanted to understand more about her options. It also recommended other 
sources of information, including Pension Wise, which it said could help to explain the: tax 
implications of the different options. And enclosed a guide about PPE. 
An illustration was also sent out on 22 September 2017. This showed the effect of taking a 
PPE of £5,000. Notes included in the illustration stated:
If you take a Partial Pension Encashment, you will be subject to the Money Purchase 
Annual Allowance (MPAA). This will limit how much you can contribute to all money 
purchase pensions each year and get tax relief. We have not taken account of the MPAA in 
this illustration.
SWLs system notes show that Mrs J called SWL on 19 October 2017 to tell it what shed 
decided to do. The systems notes for this call stated: high level re-cap covered and low 
level for PPE fully discussed. SWL said that it had provided a re-cap of the pension 
information at this point. And had then written to Mrs J to confirm the decision shed made 
had changed her tax position. 
SWL also wrote to Mrs J after the PPE had completed. This letter gave a breakdown of the 
withdrawal, as follows: 
Claim Value £5,796.85
This is made up of a tax-free amount of: £1,449.21
And a taxable amount of; £4,347.64
Less the tax taken: £ 796.87
Net Customer Payment: £4.999.98
The letter also stated that following the withdrawal, Mrs Js tax position had changed. It said:
A reduced annual allowance will be in place for contributions to money purchase pension 
arrangements.
Contributions in excess of this allowance will be subject to a tax charge and could also 
further impact your annual allowance.SWL also sent Mrs J a statement on 21 July 2018. This detailed the payments into and out 
of Mrs Js plan over the statement year. It said:
Partial Pension Encashment (PPE) £5,796.85
SWL also wrote to Mrs J in October 2018. This letter stated that Mrs Js contributions for the 
statement year had exceeded the MPAA in the 2017/2018 tax year. And that she may incur 
a tax charge. It also explained what the MPAA was.
Mrs J said that she didnt receive the letters SWL sent to her on 22 September 2017 or 
October 2017. But she hasnt said whether she received the letters SWL sent to her in July 
and October 2018. I considered that both of these letters wouldve also made Mrs J aware 
that her withdrawal had triggered the MPAA. 
Although I acknowledge that Mrs J doesnt think she received any of the letters SWL sent 
which explained the implications of the withdrawal, Im not persuaded that none of them 
wouldve reached her. They were correctly addressed. I say this based on SWLs systems 
notes which show that she changed her address in 2019 from the address it had used on the 
2017 and 2018 letters to the address Mrs J used on her complaint form to this service. SWL 
also said it had emailed Mrs J to tell her it had posted the illustration. 
Even if I was persuaded that none of SWLs correspondence in September and October 
2017 reached Mrs J, I consider that she wouldve been expecting paperwork after the calls 
shed had with SWL. So I agree with our investigator that when she didnt receive anything, 
she shouldve contacted SWL to ask it to provide the information again. Ive not seen any 
evidence that Mrs J needed the money so urgently that she felt she had to go ahead with the 
withdrawal despite not receiving the paperwork shed been told to expect, so Ive no reason 
to consider that Mrs J didnt have time to do this. 
Mrs J also said that she hadnt understood what SWL had told her about potentially 
withdrawing £20,000 during the 22 September 2017 call. She felt that as shed told SWL that 
she didnt want £20,000, it shouldve realised that she didnt understand a fundamental point. 
But I dont agree.
SWL wasnt Mrs Js financial adviser. It couldnt give her tax advice, or tell her what to do 
with her money. It could explain the options available to her and give her enough information 
for her to be able to make her own informed decision. 
From what Ive seen, I consider that it did this. Not only did SWL send letters to Mrs J which 
explained how her withdrawal would trigger the MPAA, but it also recommended she got 
financial advice. It said Mrs J could call for more help if she needed it. And also provided 
information about other places she could go for help. If Mrs J didnt understand anything, it 
was up to her to ask for additional support, so I cant fairly hold SWL responsible here.
I next considered Mrs Js point that a £20,000 drawdown wouldnt have triggered the MPAA. 
I agree that taking just the tax-free lump sum without any taxable income or taxable lump 
sums doesnt usually trigger the MPAA. But I cant fairly hold SWL responsible for Mrs J not 
deciding to withdraw her funds in this way.
I say this because, based on the limited information available to me, SWL did offer the option 
of a £20,000 drawdown to Mrs J during the £20,000 call. And although Mrs J said she didnt 
understand why SWL had brought this amount up, she couldve asked for further clarification 
at any point. 
I acknowledge that Mrs J felt that as she was over 55, and had a big enough pension fund to support a £5,000 TFC payment, she assumed that her request would be paid as TFC. But 
Ive no evidence that she requested the payment to be made in this way. And SWLs 
correspondence, which I noted earlier Mrs J wouldve been expecting, did explain how the 
withdrawal was being taken. 
Overall, I cant fairly say that SWL has done anything wrong. From what Ive seen, it did treat 
Mrs J fairly. So I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman