DRN-4168109
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc has been unable to tell him what happened to money 
he invested in an account.
What happened
Mr P says he opened an account in 2006 with a business later taken over by Santander. He 
says he has no recollection of withdrawing any of the money he invested into the account 
but says Santander cant tell him where his money went. Mr P says he has been given a 
statement which shows a small balance, but he should be told where his money went and 
when.
Santander says it took over the business Mr P opened the account with in 2008. It says its 
not obliged to keep records going back that far but says its earliest records from 2014 show 
a balance of under £100.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator didnt think Santander was obliged to keep records going back so far and 
thought it likely the main balance in the account had been withdrawn before 2014.
Mr p doesnt accept that view and in summary questions how the account balance/interest 
can now be calculated without knowing what the opening balance was. He maintains the 
money was not withdrawn and the onus is on Santander to keep accurate records.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate he will have 
unanswered questions that this service cant assist him with.
I am sure Mr P appreciates that banks and building societies are not obliged to keep records 
indefinitely and most, if not all, will keep records for six years. And records should not be 
kept longer than necessary. So, I dont think Santander has made a mistake or acted unfairly 
by telling Mr P that it doesnt have any records of his account before 2014.
There is no dispute the original account was opened in 2006 and the business in question 
was taken over by Santander in 2008. Both events are 17 and 15 years ago and I have 
made clear Santander is not obliged to hold records going back that far. I think its possible 
on balance some of the original deposit has been withdrawn leaving a balance which is 
attracting interest. I appreciate Mr P says Santander ought to be able to explain how that 
balance has been arrived at, but I disagree for the reasons I have explained. And I think this 
was Mr Ps account which he was responsible for managing. I would not have reasonably 
expected Santander to have kept a record of every account balance at the point it took over 
the other business and retained those records for 15 years.
I have looked at Santanders records and am satisfied it has searched for information about 
what took place.
I dont think Mr P has told us what checks he has carried out to trace the money via other 
accounts or why he didnt raise the issue earlier if, as Santander says, he was receiving 
annual statements even if they were online.
Overall, I find Santander is not obliged to keep records about what happened to Mr Ps 
money and has done what I would have expected to help him. I find this brings an end to 
what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do to. I make clear that I have not 
seen any evidence that suggests Santander mislaid or misappropriated Mr Ps money
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman