DRN-3133768
The complaint
Mr D complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) gave him an 
unreasonably low settlement offer for his car after it was written off following an accident.
What happened
Mr D insured his car with LV. He had an accident in May 2021 and made a claim on his 
insurance.
LV determined that the car was a category N total loss and should be written off. It valued 
the car at £18,500. It made three deductions to this:
£1,700 for pre-accident damage to the car. 
The policy excess of £450.
A retention fee of £6,8171 because Mr D wanted to keep the car.
After these deductions, LV offered Mr D £10,000 to settle his claim.
Mr D didnt accept this. He believed LV had undervalued his car and thought a more realistic 
value was £30,000. He also challenged LVs assessment of his cars condition. He says it 
was regularly maintained and in excellent condition.
LV wouldnt increase its offer, so Mr D complained to this service. He provided links to online 
ads for cars of the same make and model (albeit with different mileages and specifications) 
for sale at between £20,000 and £45,000.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that LV had taken a fair approach when valuing Mr Ds car, and that the deductions it applied 
were reasonable. He thought LVs settlement offer was fair. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators recommendation, so the case was passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Section 3 of Mr Ds policy booklet (Accidental Damage) says LV will pay the market 
value of the vehicle and its standard accessories at the time of the loss or damage [my 
emphasis]. Market value is defined in the policy booklet as:
The cost at the date of the accident or loss of replacing the insured car, if possible, 
with one of a similar make, model, age, condition and mileage. We will usually ask an 
engineer to give us advice about the market value of the insured car, refer to guides 
of car values and any other relevant sources. In assessing the market value, you 
1 Reduced to £6,350 to round the settlement offer to £10,000
should consider the amount that could reasonably have been obtained for the 
insured car if you sold it immediately before the accident, loss or theft. [my 
emphasis]
Ive highlighted the valuation date because Mr D has referred to the current strength of the 
used car market in his submissions to us (Cars are being sold for crazy strong money at the 
moment and I simply cannot go out and re purchase my exact car with the money LV are 
offering, they are miles apart from the real value). While I appreciate Mr Ds point, increases 
in the used car market since May 2021 arent relevant. Under the policy terms, LVs offer 
should be based on the market value of Mr Ds car at the time of his accident.
LV said it worked out the market value using valuations from two specialist websites, online 
ads for similar cars, and advice from its engineer. The result was it valued the car at 
£18,500. This included £1,000 for the cars alloy wheels and steering wheel.
It sent us an engineers report from June 2021 that said the car had some pre-accident 
damage to the drivers seat, paint lacquer, glass trim, boot spoiler, and bonnet paint. The 
report said this would cost just over £3,400 to repair. LV applied a 50% reduction to these 
costs and reduced the value of the car by £1,700.
Mr D says, in summary:
Online ads show similar cars selling for between £20,000 and £45,000.
There are only a handful of these cars for sale, showing their desirability.
LVs valuation of the extras on his car (steering wheel, alloy wheels, exhaust) is too 
low.
He also sent us photos of the car and service history.
As our investigator explained, this service doesnt try to value cars ourselves. Instead, we 
consider whether an insurers valuation is reasonable. To do this, we first look at trade 
guides, which are particularly useful for valuing second-hand vehicles because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also 
consider other factors, such as the cars condition. We recognise that sometimes trade 
guides can be less reliable, for example where there are few cars of a particular model for 
sale. Specialist websites can be helpful in these cases.
Ive thought carefully about the arguments put forward by both parties. Having done so, I 
dont think LVs valuation was unreasonable. It looked to two specialist guides for valuations 
based on the same make, model, age, mileage, and condition of Mr Ds car at the date of the 
accident. Weve found a similar valuation in one of the trade guides. Mr D believes his extras 
should be valued higher than £1,000 but he hasnt provided any evidence for this (for 
example, invoices or receipts showing what he paid for these).
I accept that Mr D has provided online ads showing similar cars for sale at higher prices. 
While we can consider ads, generally the final sales price will be lower than the advertised 
price. Thats why we first look to the trade and specialist guides, as these provide stronger 
evidence of retail selling prices. Im satisfied that LVs engineer reviewed the ads provided 
by Mr D and offered advice on why it shouldnt increase its offer.
I think the engineers report is detailed and I see no reason to question his assessment of 
the pre-accident damage or estimated cost of repairing this. I think LVs decision to apply a 
deduction of 50% of these costs is reasonable.
I also note that Mr Ds policy schedule shows the cars approximate value at £12,500 when 
he took out the insurance. While Im conscious Mr D says hes put a lot of work into it since then and (as Ive said above) LV must pay the market value of the car at the time of the 
accident, I think this helps support LVs valuation.
Finally, under normal circumstances when a business settles a total loss claim under a 
motor policy it retains the salvage (which means it takes possession of the vehicle in its 
damaged state). As Mr D wishes to retain the car its fair for LV to deduct an amount for the 
salvage value because this represents a loss to LV. The amount for salvage should be a 
reasonable amount in line with what LV would have obtained through its normal salvage 
process.
We asked LV to show how it calculated this retention fee. It sent us detailed information 
about this. This information is commercially sensitive so Im unable to share it with Mr D. 
However, Ive reviewed it and Im satisfied that the deduction it applied was fair.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think LVs settlement offer is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman