DRN-3096725
The complaint
Mr K complains about a number of problems he had with a loan provided by Everyday 
Lending Limited (EL).
What happened
Mr K had a loan with EL which he took in June 2016. His mother was added as a guarantor. 
During the period of the loan a number of payments were either missed or late. And there 
were times when Mr Ks mother was contacted, as well as him, because of arrears. Mr K 
complained about his mother being contacted, and EL agreed not to contact her in the 
future. 
In September 2019 Mr K queried the arrears that were showing on his account. EL agreed to 
refund the interest from September 2019 and pay £25 compensation. In March 2020 Mr K 
complained that EL had contacted his mother again. EL agreed it shouldnt have done. So it 
said it would write off the remaining balance of the loan and that no further information would 
show on Mr Ks credit file from this point. EL also offered £50 compensation. However, the 
balance wasnt written off and the payments for April and May were recorded as missed on 
Mr Ks credit file.
Mr K complained again and EL responded 10 July 2020. It agreed that it hadnt done what it 
said it would. So, it said it would arrange for the account to be shown as closed from 6 
March 2020 and all credit referencing after this point would be removed. EL offered a further 
£50 and confirmed it still intended to write off the remaining balance of £107.28. 
However, EL again didnt do what it said it would. So Mr K referred his complaint to us where 
one of our investigators looked into it. Mr K explained that adverse information was still 
showing on his credit file and he thought the payment of compensation should be increased. 
EL agreed it still hadnt removed the information from Mr Ks credit file. It agreed to do so 
and offered a further £50 compensation, making a total offer of £150. 
During the course of our investigation, EL told us it removed the entire record of the loan 
from Mr Ks credit file in November 2020. Mr K confirmed to us that the loan was no longer 
showing on his credit file at all. But he didnt accept the compensation offer by EL. Our 
investigator noted that, as a guarantor, EL was entitled to contact Mr Ks mother. And he 
thought the current offer was fair. He explained Mr K was in a better position than he should 
be given that there was no record of him ever having the loan on his credit file. 
Mr K disagreed. So the complaint has been passed to me to consider and make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has responded to our investigator in some level of detail. I want to reassure Mr K that 
Ive read everything hes said. But I wont respond to every point hes made. I hope he 
realises I mean no disrespect by this, it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Instead, Im going to focus on what I consider to be the key outstanding issues here  the 
level of compensation offered for the delays in correcting Mr Ks credit file. 
Mr K first complained because EL had contacted his mother. As a guarantor, EL was entitled 
to contact his mother. However, I note that it had agreed previously that it wouldnt do. And 
as it told Mr K this, I dont think it shouldve contacted her again. Because of this, EL agreed 
that the remaining balance of the loan would be written off and that there would be nothing 
reported on his credit file from March 2020. Whilst the remaining balance was written off, 
further missed payments were reported on Mr Ks credit file. 
Its clear that it took much longer than it shouldve done for EL to remove the incorrect data 
from Mr Ks credit file after it told him it would. And it wasnt until our involvement that EL 
eventually did so. This mustve been stressful for Mr K. Mr K has said he was declined 
further lending because of this. However, he hasnt been able to provide evidence of any 
applications which were declined because of this. I note Mr K hadnt always maintained 
payments to this loan during the term of the loan before it was written off. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded that this is the sole reason that other lending was declined. Mr Ks credit file 
would already have had some adverse markers on it because of the missed and late 
payments.
Ive also taken into account that EL wrote off the remaining balance of Mr Ks loan and has 
removed the loan from Mr Ks credit file as if it had never existed. This actually puts Mr K in a 
better position than he shouldve been. I say this as he didnt need to make the final 
payment, and the loan doesnt show now on his credit file at all. This means that the 
payments he had missed are no longer impacting his credit file.
Ive thought carefully about the impact that this has had on Mr K. But Ive also considered 
that Mr K is in a better position than he shouldve been now, albeit it has taken some time to 
get there. Overall, I think ELs offer of £150 and writing off the balance is fair and Im not 
going to ask it to do anything further. If Mr K wishes to accept this, he can contact our 
investigator who will ask EL to make this payment. 
I note Mr K also raised with our investigator a previous issue where EL had agreed to refund 
a months worth of interest and pay £25 compensation. Whilst this no longer seems to be a 
core part of Mr Ks complaint, for completeness, Id add that this seems fair in the 
circumstances. Again, if Mr K wishes to accept this, he should let our investigator know.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr K to decide whether he wishes to accept the 
offer of £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman