The complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of Mrs G that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as 
MINI Finance put Mrs G in a position where she had to sell her late husband's car at a loss. 
Mrs G would like the difference between the sale price she achieved and the potential sale 
price refunded. 
What happened
Mr R explained that Mrs G's late husband took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with 
MINI Finance on 24 July 2017 for a used car. Unfortunately Mr G died unexpectedly and Mr 
R contacted MINI Finance to advise of this on 13 April 2019.
Mr R said as Mrs G was too upset to deal with sorting out the finance agreement he has 
been acting for her. But he says MINI Finance has continued to contact Mrs G which has 
caused her some distress.
Mr R said payments continued to be made on the agreement during which time Mrs G was 
looking to sell the car wanting to achieve the best price. He doesn't feel its fair that 
MINI Finance issued a default notice. He says this meant Mrs G had to sell the car more 
quickly than she would have done. As a result the car was sold for £12,490 where he feels 
had there been more time a sale price of £14,000 could have been achieved. Mrs G would 
like the difference between the actual, and potential, sale price refunded.
MINI Finance said that all the letters it sends always give deadlines for responses or actions. 
It said it emailed Mr R on 10 July 2019  saying it would hold any action until 1 August 2019 
but if the car hadn't been sold by then the estate would need to settle the agreement in full or 
voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement. It made it clear it wouldn't be able to give a further 
extension. As it heard nothing back by 8 August 2019 it issued a default notice.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She felt that MINI Finance had acted fairly. It 
sent an options letter on 25 April 2019 and the default notice on 8 August 2019 as no 
decision had been made as to what to do with the agreement. She felt this was  a 
reasonable timescale.
Mini Finance accepted this view but Mrs G didn't. Mr R said he felt Mini Finance wanted the 
car back sooner in order to sell it for more. And he queried the interest rate on the 
agreement.
Our investigator considered these points but didn't change her view. She explained that 
MINI Finance may have been able to sell the car for more had it been given back sooner. 
DRN-1617391But she didn't feel this was relevant as the options Mrs G had were the same irrelevant of 
the timescale.
She acknowledged that MINI Finance hadn't responded to a request to explain the interest 
rate. She explained  the difference between the APR and effective interest rate  was due to 
the small option to purchase fee which had only a minimal effect. As the figures had been 
rounded up to the nearest decimal point that was why they appeared the same.
Mrs G didn't accept this further view and asked for an Ombudsman's final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate this must have been a very difficult time for Mrs G. There is always a lot to do 
when someone dies, particularly when its unexpected.
I think  there are two issues here for me to consider. The main issue is whether it was 
reasonable of MINI Finance to issue a default notice when it did . And that impact of that on 
Mrs G. Secondly the contact MINI Finance had with Mrs G.
As I understand it  Mrs G continued to make the finance payments under the Hire Purchase 
Agreement. So if that is the case I can understand her, and her representative's surprise that 
MINI Finance, in their view, forced the sale of the car by issuing a default notice.
I have looked at all the contact notes that MINI Finance has given us. I am not going to go 
over every contact either Mrs G or Mr R had with MINI Finance. Our investigator did that 
comprehensively in her view. I will just focus on what I feel are the key points.
I think that MINI Finance made the options clear to  Mrs G in a letter sent on 25 April 2019. 
The letter was also sent to Mr R on 2 May 2019. So both would have been aware of the 
options open to Mrs G. These were to settle the agreement, to transfer it or to VT the 
agreement. That letter gave a 14 day deadline for response.
After further correspondence on 3 June 2019 Mr R said he felt it wasn't reasonable for Mrs G 
to have to pay an outstanding sum of over £4000 if she returned the car. He felt Mrs G 
should be able to return the car with no financial liability  At this point it seems to be 
accepted that Mrs G would sell the car.
There seems to be no more contact until 3 July when MINI Finance contacted Mrs G to say it 
needled to know what she wanted to do. And said if no decision was made a default notice 
might be issued. I  can appreciate this must have been distressing for Mrs G.But given the 
time that had elapsed I can understand why MINI Finance felt it had to try to move things 
forward.
Then on 10 July 2019 MINI Finance emailed Mr R to say it wouldn't take any action until 1 
August 2019. But if the car hadn't been sold by then  the agreement would need to be 
settled in full, or the agreement had to be VT'd. It made it clear no further extensions would 
be given. and that in the event of no decision a default notice would be issued which it what 
subsequently happened.
I appreciate Mr R says he didn't get this email. I don't know why that was as it seems to have 
been correctly addressed. But even if he didn't get it I am surprised that he didn't contact 
MINI Finance himself to try to take the matter forward. From the customer notes it seems he last contacted MINI Finance on 8 July 2019 to complain about the business contacting Mrs 
G. And to confirm it was her intention to sell the car.
I would expect a business to be sympathetic when there is a bereavement. But I don't think 
its reasonable for a business to keep situation that needed resolving open indefinitely even 
when the payments  as I understand it, continued to be made.
I think as MINI Finance sent Mrs G a letter with her options on 25 April 2019 asking for a 
decision within 14 days it wasn't unreasonable some three months later to take the action it 
did. Particularly as  there had been no contact from Mrs G or her representative for a 
considerable period of time.
Mr G has told us the car was sold for £12,490 when he feels it could have sold if he had 
more time for around £14,000. There is of course no guarantee of that  and whilst 
I appreciate some time was needed to decide the best option to end the agreement I think 
there was sufficient time for Mr R to try to sell the car for the best price he could. 
I don't feel that MINI Finance's actions were unreasonable. So on that basis I don't think 
I can fairly expect it to refund the difference between the sale price achieved and the 
potential price Mr R thinks could have been achieved.
Mr R has also complained about the contact MINI Finance had with Mrs G. I can appreciate 
having set Mr R up as a representative that Mrs G might not have expected to have any 
contact once  MINI Finance agreed to Mr G being the representative 
I can only three times in the customer notes when MINI Finance contacted Mrs G. Once to 
confirm verbally her instructions for Mr R to act as her representative. MINI Finance has 
explained that  is its process and I don't find that unreasonable. It then contacted Mrs G on 3 
July 2019 to say it needed a decision otherwise a default notice might be issued. 
I don't know why MINI Finance contacted Mrs G then rather than Mr R. As any default notice 
would be in Mrs G's name it could be that it felt it had to advise her directly of  that.
Finally, MINI Finance  sent the  default notice letter to Mrs G. I think that was appropriate 
since the default was against Mrs G not Mr R.
Whilst I appreciate this was a difficult time for Mrs G I don't feel that the amount of contact 
MNI Finance had with her after she appointed Mr R as her representative was unreasonable.
  final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and the 
estate of Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 17 July  2020.
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
