DRN-3198054
The complaint
Ms O complains about the settlement she has been offered under her appliance insurance
policy and the service she has received from Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G).  
What happened
Ms O took out appliance insurance with D&G to cover the breakdown of her television. The
plan provides cover for breakdown, repair and replacement, including accidental damage.
In October 2020 Ms O informed D&G that there was a problem with her television and made
a claim under her policy. D&G rejected the claim saying that the television was too old and
should not have been covered under the policy when it was first set up in 2016. Ms O was
not happy with this and complained, but D&G did not change their decision.
Ms O was not satisfied with this and brought her complaint to us. She said that D&Gs final
response letter to her was full of inaccuracies, and that if the television was not suitable to be
insured, D&G should not have set up the policy and taken her premiums.
D&G then reviewed their decision and accepted that they had made a mistake. They said
that the policy had been correctly set up and that Ms O could make a claim. They offered a
cash settlement of £449 for a replacement television with a similar specification. They also
offered £90 compensation for poor service and a refund of the current years premiums. Ms
O didnt think that was a fair settlement as she said that her television had been a high end
product and she could not purchase something similar with the cash offered. She also
thought the compensation offered did not properly reflect the poor level of service.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that the
cash settlement was fair as the policy required a replacement with a similar specification.
She also thought that the compensation fairly reflected the mistakes made. Ms O asked for
the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 11 November 2021. I said:
D&G have now accepted Ms Os claim, so the issue for me to consider is whether the
settlement and compensation offered is fair.
I will start by looking at the terms and conditions of Ms Os policy. These set out D&Gs
obligations when offering a replacement product. The terms and conditions say we will
arrange to replace your product with one of a same or similar make and technical
specification. I think these terms and conditions are clear.
Ms Os television was old and the same product is no longer available. D&G have therefore
offered to replace it with a television from the same manufacturer which they say is of similar
specification. Ms O says that her television was a high-end product when it was initially
purchased and cost a lot more than what is being offered by D&G to replace it. However,
technology develops over time and the policy does not say that the customer will be offered
a replacement to the equivalent value of their product when it was purchased. An insurance
policy aims to put the customer back into the position they were in just before the damage
took place. I therefore think it fair that, as Ms Os television is no longer sold, she is offered
one with a similar specification.
I have looked at the specification of the television offered by D&G and I think it is broadly
similar to Ms Os original television. In some ways it appears to be an improvement as it is a
smart television, has a higher resolution screen, and the screen is slightly larger. I think that
this is a fair offer. Ms O has suggested an alternative television from a different
manufacturer, but this appears to be of a much higher specification and therefore I dont
think that it is a reasonable replacement.
D&G have offered Ms O a cash settlement based on the value of the replacement television.
This is provided for in the terms and conditions of the policy, and I think in these
circumstances it is fair. It allows Ms O to purchase the television of her choice and she can
choose to upgrade the television if she wishes.
Whilst I appreciate that this is not the outcome Ms O wanted, I think that D&Gs offer to settle
her claim with a cash offer of £449 is fair and consistent with the terms and conditions of her
policy.
I also have to consider whether Ms O has lost out as a result of D&Gs mistake in initially
refusing the claim. As Ms Os television was damaged and considered to be uneconomical
to repair, the policy should have been cancelled as per the terms and conditions. Ms O has
continued to pay the premiums on her policy and so D&G have offered to refund these
premiums amounting to £93.17. I think this is fair.
In relation to compensation for distress and inconvenience, however, I dont think D&Gs
offer of £90 properly reflects the impact on Ms O. Compensation isnt intended to fine or
punish a business but is a recognition of the emotional and practical impact that a mistake
can have. Ms Os claim was wrongly declined which must have caused her distress. She
was told that the policy was incorrectly set up, although she knew that she had been paying
her premiums regularly since 2016.
Ms Os complaint was also not initially upheld by D&G. Ms O received a final response letter
from D&G containing a number of inaccuracies. I have read the letter and am satisfied that
some of the information was incorrect. For example, the name of the manufacturer D&G
made enquiries with and whether an engineer had attended Ms Os home to view the
television. The effect of these inaccuracies was that Ms O did not feel that her claim had
been properly considered.
Ms O says that whilst trying to sort her claim out, she spent a long time waiting for her phone
calls to be answered. I can see from D&Gs case notes that they accept that at times there
were long delays in calls being answered. This was frustrating and inconvenient for Ms O.
I also take into account that it took D&G four months to accept that they had made a mistake
and attempt to put things right. In all the circumstances, I think that Ms O has been caused
distress and inconvenience and that a payment of £200 compensation would be fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms O and D&G accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further comment, my final decision and reasoning remain the 
same as in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Domestic & General Insurance Plc must:
1. pay Ms O £449 cash for a replacement television, plus interest at 8% from the date of 
Ms Os claim to the date they make the payment;
2. refund the premiums as agreed in the sum of £93.17 plus interest at 8% from the
date Ms O made payment to the date they make the refund; and
3. pay Ms O £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Domestic & General Insurance Plc must 
put things right as detailed above.
If Domestic & General Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms O how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms O a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman