DRN-4197277
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty irresponsibly lent to her. She 
says she had a lot of debt at the time and couldnt afford further borrowing.
What happened
Drafty provided Miss H with an open-ended credit facility. Miss H could draw funds from the 
facility up to the limit of £1,400. This wasnt a payday loan where Miss H had to repay all her 
borrowing within a pay period. Instead, Miss H could make minimum payments to the credit 
facilities in the same way as a credit card.
When Miss H complained to Drafty, it didnt uphold her complaint. It said its checks were 
sufficient and they showed Miss H could afford the facility. It also said it monitored her 
account in line with regulation and hadnt done anything wrong.
Miss H referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked at 
by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator didnt think Drafty was wrong to lend to Miss H. 
She said Draft conducted what she considered to be reasonable checks that showed Miss H 
could afford the facility.
Miss H disagreed, she said she had other credit at the time and having complained about 
those lending decisions, they were upheld, and she doesnt understand why this complaint 
isnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the relevant times. 
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather 
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending. 
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate. Any checks had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be 
repaid. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend Miss H the facility.
As previously stated, Miss H wasnt given a payday loan where she had to repay all of what 
she borrowed plus the interest due on her next pay day. Miss H was given a facility where 
there was an expectation that shed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a 
reasonable period. What constitutes a reasonable period is laid out in the regulations but its 
important to note that a reasonable period will always be dependent on the circumstances of 
the individual case. 
Miss H was granted a facility with Drafty with a £1,400 limit. In the credit agreement, a 
hypothetical situation is laid out to show the potential cost of the facility to Miss H. This 
situation assumed that Miss H did the following: 
1. drew down her maximum credit limit on the first day of the facility being provided, 
2. she kept to the terms of the agreement and, 
3. repaid what she owed in 12 monthly instalments. Had Miss H done that, shed have 
repaid Drafty a total of £1,898.22 meaning twelve monthly repayments of around 
£158.18.
Before lending to Miss H, Drafty asked her about her monthly income and expenditure 
including her credit commitments. It also searched her credit file. Miss H declared her 
income as £2,500 and although she declared £0 on her application for her monthly 
expenses, it seems later, she provided a breakdown of her expenses to a total of £900 
including her credit commitments.
The results of the credit search showed Miss H had 13 active accounts, no defaults or 
delinquent accounts and her credit commitments were around £1,024 and not £275 as shed 
declared. Taking into account Miss Hs income (£2,500) and the results of the credit search 
and her declared living expenses (£1,649), she was left with sufficient income to make the 
minimum payments on the facility.
Drafty also had a duty to monitor her account. Drafty has confirmed Miss Hs account is in 
arrears as she hasnt kept up with her repayments. Miss H drew down from the account on 
three occasions, she initially drew down the maximum, made two repayments and then drew 
down again. Miss H made two more repayments and then made the final draw down on 
30 November 2022. As Miss H struggled to keep up with her repayments, Drafty disabled 
her ability to draw from the facility and agreed a repayment plan. I can see Miss H was 
making lower repayments from February 2023.
I think Draft acted reasonably by preventing Miss H from accessing further credit once it 
became aware of her financial difficulty, I also thing it was positive to agree a repayment with 
Miss H for the debt repayment.
Altogether, I dont think Draft was wrong to lend to Miss H in the circumstances. I appreciate 
what Miss H has said about her other complaints, but my role is here is to look at the 
circumstances around the lending decision in this complaint. From what Ive seen I dont 
think Draft did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman