DRN-4065989
Complaint
Mr L has complained about a personal loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and was therefore irresponsibly 
lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr L with a loan for £1,000.00 in March 2021. This loan had an 
APR of 249.5% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£2,897.28, including interest, fees and charges of £1,897.28, was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of just under £120. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ls complaint and she thought that Everyday Loans 
ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr L with his loan. So he thought that 
Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. Everyday Loans disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr L could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before Mr Ls loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mr L already had a 
significant amount of existing debt, had taken out loans with payday type and other high-cost 
lenders and also had more than one county court judgement against him. 
Im also concerned that Everyday Loans own income and expenditure calculation showed 
that this loan would take Mr L close to the margin of his disposal income. And Everyday 
Loans relied on the use of average data to calculate Mr Ls living expenses when arriving at 
its monthly disposable income figure. This is despite the fact that Mr Ls credit file showed he 
didnt fit the profile of the average borrower. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr L has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Ls financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ls version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ls existing financial position meant that he was unlikely 
to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not have 
shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr L. As Everyday Loans 
provided Mr L with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr L ended up paying and is being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan he 
shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr L lost out because of what 
Everyday Loans did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr L
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr L by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr L made, whether to Everyday Loans or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £1,000.00 originally lent. If 
Mr L has already repaid more than £1,000.00 then Everyday Loans should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr L;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr L to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Everyday Loans recorded about this loan should be removed from          
Mr Ls credit file.
If an outstanding balance does remain once all adjustments have been made, 
Everyday Loans should get in contact with Mr L to arrange an affordable payment 
plan. Id also remind Everyday Loans of its obligation to exercise forbearance and 
due consideration, in the event it intends to collect on an outstanding balance and it 
be the case that Mr L is experiencing financial difficulty. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman