DRN-3731725
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plcs decision to block and close his 
account.  Hes also unhappy about how long it took the bank to return the balance of his 
account to him.
What happened
Mr G had an account with RBS.
In October 2020, RBS reviewed Mr Gs account.  Whilst it completed its review RBS blocked 
the account  which meant Mr G couldnt access the money in his account, which at the time 
was just under £220.  Following its review RBS decided to close Mr Gs account, however, it 
didnt let him know about its decision until March 2021. RBS closed Mr Gs account on 4 
May 2021. 
Mr G contacted RBS to try and find out what was happening with his account and the 
reasons behind the banks actions. And when he would be able to get access to the money 
in his account. RBS didnt provide Mr G with much information and said it hadnt done 
anything wrong and had acted in line with the terms of the account and relevant regulations. 
Mr G wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. Mr G 
explained that the block on his account had made it very difficult to manage financially 
especially as at the time the country was living through a pandemic. He said he had to 
borrow money from friends and relatives. And feels that RBS treated him like a criminal. 
Mr G said that the whole experience had been upsetting and stressful. He wants RBS to 
apologise, reopen his account and pay him compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
by the bank blocking his account and holding onto his money for so long. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought RBS hadnt done anything 
wrong when it decided to review Mr Gs account. However, she said RBS took too long to 
close Mr Gs account and couldve done things much quicker. So, she said RBS should pay 
Mr G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this had caused him. 
RBS accepted what the investigator said. Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. So, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with the block RBS placed on Mr Gs account. RBS has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take 
certain actions in order to meet these obligations. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their review.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for RBS to block Mr Gs account. RBS has explained that this was its standard procedure, 
and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so RBS were complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Mr G inconvenience 
and upset when it decided to blocked his account, I cant say the bank did anything wrong 
and treated Mr G unfairly in doing so. 
I understand that Mr G wants RBS to explain the reason it applied the block to his account in 
the first place. And I can see that Mr G asked RBS to explain itself on several occasions. But 
RBS doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its under 
no obligation to tell Mr G the reasons behind the account review and block, as much as hed 
like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr G this information. And 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
Ill next deal with RBSs decision to close Mr Gs account. As the investigator has already 
explained, its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Each financial 
institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to open or close 
accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial decision that a financial 
institution is entitled to take. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont 
usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has 
had their account closed.
I know Mr G is upset that RBS closed his account. But having looked at all the information 
available to me, including RBSs actions and the information its provided Im satisfied that 
RBS had sufficient grounds to close Mr Gs account. So, I wont be asking them to reopen 
Mr Gs account.
However, while RBS are entitled to close an account, wed expect them to do so in a timely 
manner and without undue delay. Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before 
closing an account. Usually, that means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on 
the circumstances. I can see that RBS blocked and decided to close Mr Gs account in 
October 2020. But it didnt inform Mr G that it intended to close Mr Gs account until March 
2021, which meant Mr Gs account remained blocked for nearly six months. RBS hasnt 
offered any explanation for why its closure of Mr Gs account took so long to complete. So, 
Im satisfied RBS has caused unnecessary delays in releasing Mr Gs funds and closing his 
account.
RBS has accepted it should have sent Mr G a notice to close much sooner than it did  in 
October 2020 when it made the decision to close Mr Gs account. And it has agreed with the 
investigators view to pay Mr G £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the 
delay. 
Ive considered what Mr G has said about how RBSs actions impacted him and Ive no 
doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for Mr G. There isnt a set formula that we use 
to calculate awards for particular mistakes or poor service. Its my role to consider what 
impact RBSs actions have had on Mr G and decide, within guidelines set by our service, 
whether compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think its fair to say the delays caused by RBS when it 
reviewed  and decided to close Mr Gs account caused him worry and upset. And I agree 
some compensation is appropriate for this. I say this because Mr G had to spend time contacting RBS and he had to wait several months to find out what was happening with his 
account and for RBS to release his funds. So, I can appreciate this wouldve been 
inconvenient and upsetting for Mr G. And its only right that RBS recognises this. However, 
Im satisfied that £100 is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the trouble and 
upset Mr G was caused. So, while Mr G may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the 
compensation recommended by the investigator recognises the impact RBSs actions had in 
the overall circumstances of this complaint. So, I wont be directing RBS to pay any more.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is to instruct The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc to pay Mr G £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
complete the closure of his account and return his funds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman