DRN-2066025
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
 What happened
On 17 September 2019, Mr H applied for a single trip policy online to cover a holiday he and 
Mrs H had booked. They were due to depart on 7 October 2019 and return to the UK on 23 
October 2019. So Mr H selected for the cover to start on 7 October 2019. During the online 
application process, he was offered the chance to upgrade to annual cover. He took up this 
option and took out an annual policy, with the same start date of 7 October 2019.
Unfortunately, Mrs H suffered an accident and was unable to travel. So on 30 September 
2019, Mr and Mrs H made a cancellation claim on their policy. 
UKI turned down the claim. It told Mr and Mrs H that cover on their annual policy only began 
on the start date a policyholder selected during the sales process. As Mr H had chosen 7 
October 2019 as the start date, it said there was no cover in place for the cancellation of 
their trip.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said they hadnt known that while a single trip offered cancellation cover 
from the date of policy purchase; annual travel insurance wouldnt work in the same way. 
They said there hadnt been an option to amend the trip dates during the upgrade and UKI 
hadnt let them know that by selecting the start date of their trip as the start date of the cover; 
they wouldnt have any cancellation cover in place. 
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. He considered the 
sales process Mr H had followed during the sale of the policy and at the point of the 
upgrade. He didnt think UKI had made it clear enough that if a policyholder chose the first 
day of their holiday as the date they wanted their annual policy to start; thered be no 
cancellation cover for their trip. So he didnt think it was fair for UKI to turn down Mr and Mrs 
Hs claim.
UKI disagreed. It said it gives all customers a chance to choose when they want their 
insurance to start. It stated that many customers choose the first day of their holiday, not 
realising that they might need to make a claim beforehand. It said that during the online 
sales process, Mr H wouldve had to confirm that hed read the important information about 
the terms of the contract.  It queried why, if Mr H had been unsure about the cover, he hadnt 
sought advice from its online assistant. And it added that Mr and Mrs H had had the chance 
to check the policy documents that were sent to them and cancel the policy if it wasnt right 
for them.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think UKI has treated Mr and Mrs H fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. They 
also require insurers to give policyholders enough clear, fair and not misleading information 
about a policy, so that theyre able to make an informed decision about whether a policy is 
right for them.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs contract with UKI. The policy 
includes Important Information and one paragraph in this section relates to cancellation 
cover. It says:
Your insurance covers you in case you have to cancel your trip before it starts. This cover 
begins on the start date shown on your schedule or the date you booked the trip, whichever 
is later, and ends when you leave your home area at the start of your trip (or your home for a 
trip solely within the UK).
Theres no dispute that when Mr H applied for the policy online, he selected 7 October 2019 
 the first day of his planned holiday  as the policy start date. So its clear that strictly, there 
wasnt any cancellation cover in place when Mr and Mrs H made their claim on 30 
September 2019. 
But, like our investigator, Ive also looked very closely at the sales process Mr H followed 
when he took out the policy to decide if I think UKI made clear enough the implications of 
selecting a policy start date. UKI says it recognises that many policyholders select their 
holiday dates as the cover start date, not realising that this means they wont have 
cancellation cover. So Id expect UKI to make it very clear to potential customers taking out 
annual travel insurance policies that all cover on their policy will only apply from the date 
they choose for their policy to start.
Mr H says he initially intended to take out single trip cover. The sales process he sent me 
shows that he was asked to enter his trip dates. He was quoted a price for single trip cover 
and underneath, was offered to upgrade to annual cover for around ten pounds extra. Mr H 
took up this option and was then taken to an important information screen. This included an 
option to view the Important Insurance Product Information and policyholders were asked to 
confirm theyd read this document before confirming they wanted the cover. There was also 
a section headed for annual policies which explained the annual renewal process. 
I dont think the sales process made it clear to Mr H that if he took out the annual cover 
rather than single trip cover, it wouldnt offer him any cancellation cover for any trips he had 
to cancel before the policy started. Hed entered the dates of his trip early on during the 
process, intending to take out a single trip policy. It seems to me that UKI shouldve drawn 
his attention to the fact that if he chose the upgrade option, hed need to change the policy 
start date if he wanted any cancellation cover for the trip. I accept the IPID was likely 
available for Mr H to look at before he completed the sale. But even if Mr H did click on the 
IPID, I dont think the information about when cover started on page 2 wouldve been enough 
to prompt him to realise the consequences of choosing the date of intended departure on his 
holiday as the start date of the annual policy.  
Given the nature and cost of Mr and Mrs Hs holiday, it seems to me that theyd likely have 
changed the policy start date if theyd been aware they wouldnt have full cover in place until 
7 October 2019.  So I think theyve lost out as a result of UKIs failure to clearly highlight this 
important information during the sales process.UKI says the post-sale documents also shouldve made it clear to Mr and Mrs H that their 
policy didnt start until 7 October 2019. I accept the schedule does state that cover would 
begin on this date. But it doesnt specifically state that cancellation cover also doesnt apply 
until the policy start date. And in these circumstances, as Mr H had already told UKI when he 
was planning to travel and its system had suggested the upgrade, I think it was fair for him to 
believe he had full cover in place, given the lack of a clear warning during the sale. And I 
dont think its fair for UKI to now rely on post-sale documentation to mitigate any lack of 
clarity in the sales process.
Overall, I dont think UKI gave Mr and Mrs H enough clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy they were buying to ensure they could make sure it was right for 
them. And as Ive explained, I think they lost out as a result. I think they wouldve ensured 
they selected the date of policy purchase as the policy start date if theyd been aware of the 
implications of failing to do so. So I think UKI needs to take steps to put things right.
In these circumstances, I think the fair outcome is for UKI to now consider Mr and Mrs Hs 
cancellation claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. It seems Mr and Mrs H 
cancelled their policy though and received a full refund of premium from UKI. So theyd need 
to pay UKI for their policy to be effectively reinstated if UKI required them to do so in order 
for their claim to be considered. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint. 
I direct U K Insurance Limited to consider Mr and Mrs Hs claim in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. Mr and Mrs H will need to pay UKI the cost of their premium for the policy to 
be effectively reinstated if UKI requires them to do so.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman