DRN-2665575
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that HomeServe Membership Limited (HomeServe) has for 
many years taken premiums from their bank account without authorisation for a Home 
Emergency policy that they knew nothing about for a property belonging to their daughter.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ls daughter owns a flat (which I will refer to hereafter as the Apartment). The 
Apartment was bought off plan, and Mr and Mrs Ls daughter moved in in 2005. She then 
moved abroad, since which time the Apartment has been rented out, and Mr and Mrs L have 
been managing it. Mr and Mrs L have a separate bank account for the rental arrangements. 
It appears that the day to day management is undertaken by a management company, and 
Mr and Mrs L do not visit the Apartment.
In March 2020, Mr L noticed that a direct debit payment had left his own bank account to 
HomeServe. He contacted HomeServe to query this payment. HomeServe told him that the 
payment related to a Home Emergency cover insurance policy that had been taken out by 
post in February 2008. This came as a considerable surprise to Mr and Mrs L as they say 
theyd never received any correspondence from HomeServe and queried how the policy had 
come into being and why it had been automatically renewed each year since 2008 without 
their authorization. 
HomeServe has said that the policy was initiated following receipt of a completed application 
form. The premiums had always been paid monthly by direct debit, the bank details for which 
would have been provided on the application form. Policy documents were issued on 12 
February 2008 confirming the setting up of the policy and giving a schedule of the payments 
due to be collected, and the full details of the cover provided. Each year, prior to the 
continuation of the insurance, renewal documents were sent to the Apartment address. 
Mr and Mrs L deny all previous knowledge of this policy and say they didnt need it. The 
policy covers gas boiler and gas central heating maintenance and other domestic services 
including internal plumbing and drainage, electrical emergency breakdown, and security and 
pests. Mr L says that theres no gas supply to the Apartment and therefore any cover for gas 
services wouldnt have been required. Hes also said that other services provided by the 
policy are provided by the Apartments management company or separate insurance 
policies. He therefore says theres no reason why they wouldve taken out this policy as it 
wouldve served no useful purpose. 
Mr L also says they wouldnt have been able to make a claim under it. Mr L was provided 
with copies of the policy for years 2014  2018. He observes that the policy document for 
2014 states:
The property must be your permanent home and owned and solely occupied by 
you and your family as a private residence with no business use. 
As the Apartment wasnt Mr and Mrs Ls permanent home, and it has never been used as a 
private residence with no business use, he states that the policy wouldve been null and void 
from its inception. 
However the policy for 2014 also states:
  We have clarified our terms and conditions to state that this policy is suitable for 
homeowners, landlords and tenants who have responsibility for the repairs and 
maintenance of the insured property. 
and
This policy meets the needs of homeowners, private landlords and tenants requiring 
assistance in the event of an emergency with the plumbing, drainage, electrical 
wiring, security and locks, pest infestation, internal gas supply pipe, electrical heating 
or central heating at their property.
HomeServe has said that had there been a claim by the tenant, the claim wouldve been 
honoured as it wouldnt have been aware that they were a tenant when the claim was made. 
Because it doesn't keep records going back as far as 2008, HomeServe hasnt been able to 
provide any evidence of the setting up of the policy or of the direct debit mandate, which 
wouldve been helpful to explain how it came to have Mr Ls bank details. 
However on further investigation, HomeServe was able to establish that the policy was 
branded NHBC and was sold when the housebuilders two year warranty was due to 
expire. HomeServe wrote to the Apartment address offering ongoing cover in conjunction 
with NHBC. It's not clear why this letter wouldve been addressed to Mr and Mrs L, but it's 
likely that it was. 
Mr L says he didn't take out this insurance. However as the policy was initiated, and 
premiums were taken by direct debit from Mr L's personal bank account, the details of that 
account mustve been provided to HomeServe. It appears that for 12 years, Mr L didnt 
notice monthly payments from his account going to HomeServe. 
On 14 April 2020 Mr L wrote to HomeServe to complain and to request a refund of the 
£2,090 hed paid in premium between 2008 and 2020. 
Mr. L queried why no correspondence was ever sent to him by HomeServe to his home 
address, and believes HomeServe mustve had this address in order to send him the policy 
application form. HomeServe has said that the only address it held for Mr L was the 
Apartment address until Mr L wrote his letter of complaint from his home address on 14 April 
2020.
HomeServe responded to Mr Ls complaint on 21 April 2020. It explained that it had not been 
sending renewal documents to his personal address as it would only send documents to the 
address it had for him on its file, which was the Apartment address. 
As Mr and Mrs L werent satisfied with HomeServes response to his complaint, they brought 
it to this service. Our investigator noted that the renewal letters sent to the Apartment state 
that cover would automatically renew unless HomeServe was informed that Mr and Mrs L 
didn't want to renew. As the details provided by HomeServe show that it only held the 
Apartments address as the correspondence address for the policy, these documents would 
not have been sent to Mr Ls home address.  He said that he had no reason to believe that 
HomeServe did not send these letters out to the Apartment address. He considered that, on 
the balance of probability, HomeServe could not have known Mr L's bank details for the 
setting up of the policy if it hadnt received an application form providing these. His view was 
that he couldn't say that HomeServe had set up the policy incorrectly. Mr and Mrs L arent satisfied with our investigators view and have asked that their complaint 
be considered by an ombudsman. Its therefore been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm not going to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and I'll give my reasons.
Ive noted the renewal letters sent by HomeServe to the Apartment from 2014 to 2020. All 
these are addressed to Mr and Mrs L at the Apartment address. I'm satisfied that until April 
2020, this was the only address that HomeServe held for Mr and Mrs L. I consider it unlikely 
that none of the renewal documents wouldve been delivered to the Apartment. Mr L 
believes his tenants wouldve forwarded to him any correspondence that that was received 
at the Apartment from HomeServe. I cant account for the apparent failure of the tenants to 
forward any correspondence from HomeServe to Mr and Mrs L.
Ive noted Mr Ls argument that this policy was of no benefit to them as the Apartment 
doesnt have gas, and most of the other benefits of the policy are provided for by the 
management company and paid for through a quarterly management charge. I've also noted 
Mr Ls argument that the policy terms are such that he wouldnt have been able to make a 
claim under it. 
Mr. L has also raised other issues with HomeServe such as substantial increases in the 
premium over the years. He was of course unaware of these as he wasnt receiving the 
renewal documentation. 
In the absence of any other explanation, which Mr L has not provided, I think it likely that 
HomeServe sent a letter to the Apartment before the housebuilders warranty was due to 
come to an end. That would explain why the Apartment address features in HomeServe's 
records and not Mr and Mrs Ls home address. What is more difficult to explain is how 
HomeServe came to have the name of Mr and Mrs L, their phone number, and Mr Ls bank 
details.
HomeServe has located a copy of the mailing pack that wouldve been sent to the 
Apartment. This must have been returned to HomeServe with Mr Ls bank details. The terms 
and conditions of the policy were included within this pack and these wouldve confirmed the 
nature of the cover and who it was suitable for. It was therefore Mr and Mrs Ls responsibility 
to read this information to ensure that the cover met their needs. As the cover was taken out 
and never cancelled, I think its reasonable for HomeServe to have assumed that Mr and 
Mrs L were either happy with the cover provided by the policy, or alternatively that they didn't 
read the terms of the policy, for which HomeServe isnt responsible. 
I have a degree of sympathy with Mr and Mrs L in that they have paid a significant amount in 
premiums for the last 12 years for a policy that they say they didnt know they had and say 
they didnt need. However I also have to consider whether or not HomeServe has done 
anything wrong here. I dont consider that it has. It appears to have acted quite reasonably in 
issuing a policy on the strength of an application it received, and continuing to take 
payments by direct debit as it didnt receive any notification from Mr and Mrs L that they no 
longer wanted the policy. The fact that Mr and Mrs L didnt notice for 12 years that they were 
paying monthly premiums to HomeServe is, Im afraid, their responsibility, and not the fault 
of HomeServe. As I dont consider that HomeServe has acted unreasonably here, it would not be fair for me 
to require them to make any reimbursement of premiums paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above I'm not upholding Mr and Mrs L's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman