DRN-3694302
The complaint
Ms B has complained about the service she received from Cater Allen Limited, trading as 
Cater Allen Private Bank (Cater Allen) when attempting to open a new account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Ms B is unhappy with the service she received from 
Cater Allen when attempting to open a personal account so she could deposit an inheritance 
cheque.
Ms B says she was given incorrect advice and that Cater Allen caused unreasonable delays. 
As a result of this, Ms Bs cheque expired, and she has since been unable to obtain a new 
cheque for the funds from the executor. So, Ms B wants Cater Allen to cover her financial 
loss and compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of 
the poor service.
Cater Allen has accepted that its service fell short and has offered Ms B £250 compensation 
for this. But it doesnt agree that it should cover Ms Bs alleged financial losses. Cater Allen 
says the account was set up promptly from receipt of the application and the short delay in 
processing the cheque was due to COVID restrictions. 
One of our investigators considered Ms Bs complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She accepted Cater Allen had caused some delays and that Ms B had experienced 
some distress and inconvenience as a result. But she thought the £250 compensation offer 
was fair. Our investigator said it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Cater Allen to cover the 
value of the cheque as it wasnt responsible for the fact that Ms B has been unable to obtain 
a replacement cheque. She said the executor refusing to provide a new cheque wasnt a 
reasonably foreseeable consequence of Cater Allens mistakes.
Ms B didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been extensive background to this complaint as it has been ongoing since 2020. I 
dont intend to comment on every individual issue or disagreement which has happened. 
Instead, Ill focus on what I believe to be the key issues relevant to reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to either side, rather it reflects the 
informal nature of our service and my role within it. But Id like to reassure the parties that I 
have carefully considered everything theyve submitted, even if I havent commented on it 
specifically.
Having considered the available evidence and arguments, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
Ms Bs account application was received by Cater Allen on 23 April 2020 and the 
account was opened on 27 April 2020. I dont consider this to be an unreasonable 
timescale.
I accept that there was a delay in processing the cheque and that Ms B told 
Cater Allen that the cheque was nearing expiry. But Cater Allen has explained the 
delay was due to its office only being open for payment processing one day per week 
during the COVID pandemic. I dont consider this to be unreasonable in those 
circumstances.
I understand Ms B has been unable to obtain a replacement cheque from the 
executor of the estate. I sympathise with the difficulties she is facing in this respect, 
but I cant reasonably hold Cater Allen responsible for the dispute between Ms B and 
the executor. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect Cater Allen to 
pay Ms B the value of the cheque in these circumstances.
I also agree with our investigator that Ms B being unable to obtain a replacement 
cheque for her inheritance wasnt a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the 
delay in processing the cheque. So, again, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to expect Cater Allen to pay Ms B the value of the cheque.
I know Ms B has been given incorrect advice from Cater Allen when attempting to 
open the account and deposit the cheque and that this would have been frustrating 
and upsetting. And shes also suffered the inconvenience of needing to obtain a 
replacement cheque. But I think the majority of the distress and inconvenience Ms B 
has suffered stems from the fact shes been unable to receive the inheritance  
which Ive decided Cater Allen isnt responsible for.
Ive considered the impact of the errors I think Cater Allen is responsible for, 
including: 
othe unclear explanations about how a personal account could be opened, 
othe delay in processing the cheque,
othe incorrect explanation about why the cheque deposit failed, and
othat no debit card was issued with the account initially. 
I accept these errors would have caused Ms B some distress and inconvenience, 
separate to that caused by her dispute with the executor. But taking everything into 
account, Im satisfied the apology and offer of £250 compensation are enough to 
fairly compensate Ms B for the impact of Cater Allens errors.My final decision
Cater Allen Limited, trading as Cater Allen Private Bank, has already made an offer to pay 
£250 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Cater Allen Limited, trading as Cater Allen Private Bank, should pay 
Ms B £250  if it hasnt done already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman