DRN-4293238
The complaint
Mr W's complaint is about Accelerant Insurance Europes handling of a claim for water 
damage to his property under a buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W owns a flat which he rents out. The freehold of the building is owned by a housing 
association. As a leaseholder he was provided with insurance cover under the housing 
associations policy with Accelerant. 
In June 2021, Mr W contacted Accelerant to make a claim as his flat had been flooded after 
an escape of water from an upstairs property. 
Accelerant accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster. However, Mr W complained in 
July 2022, as the property repairs had still not been completed. He said the property was 
only stripped out in December 2021, six months after the leak and the bathroom and flooring 
had not been replaced. As the property was still not habitable, Mr W said he was unable to 
rent it out and so was losing income. Mr W pointed out that another flat damaged by the 
same incident had been repaired within six months.
In September 2022, Accelerant agreed that there had been delays and apologised to Mr W. 
It arranged for another loss adjuster to take over the claim. Accelerant also agreed to pay for 
loss of rent and additional electricity costs incurred as a result of drying the property out. 
However, I understand there were further delays after this, as the contractors appointed 
went into administration and so Accelerant had to find other contractors in late 2022. As at 
April 2023, the work had still not been completed. I do not know if the work has now been 
completed or not.  
Mr W is not happy that the payments from Accelerant have compensated him fully for the 
financial losses he has been caused by its delays. He says he had to pay the council tax on 
the flat while it couldnt be let out (over £3,200 for the period September 2021 to January 
2023) when this would normally be paid by tenants; and he would have increased the rent 
charged since June 2021 and so this should be reflected in the loss of rent payment. 
Mr W also asks for compensation for the stress, anxiety and trouble he has been caused, 
including having to chase phone calls and updates from the loss adjusters. Mr W says he is 
disabled and this should have been prioritise; the rent is his income.
Accelerant did not agree to make any payment towards the council tax or the potential rent 
increase, so Mr W brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She said there had bene considerable 
delays and so while the policy doesnt cover utilities or council tax, she thought that 
Accelerant should pay half the council tax that Mr W had paid and £500 compensation. 
Mr W confirmed receipt of the Investigators assessment and has not added anything further. 
Accelerant has not responded to the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claims-handling 
Accelerant accepted in July 2022 that the claim had not been dealt with as it should have 
been and that there had been unnecessary and avoidable delay in the repair works on        
Mr Ws flat. I can see the loss adjusters notes around October 2022 were suggesting 
everything was in place for the works to be finished by end of 2022. However, the delays 
continued after that, as there were problems with the contractors and as at spring 2023, the 
works were still not completed. I am not certain if they have now been completed or not. 
While it is impossible for me to determine exactly how long the repairs should have taken, it 
seems to be accepted that there was at least a year longer than needed. Mr W has made 
reference to another flat being repaired within six months. It is difficult to say that this is how 
long his property should have taken, as the damage may not have been the same in each 
property. But it seems to me that somewhere between six month and year would not be 
unreasonable for the size of the property and type of repairs needed. It took around two 
years. So there was considerable avoidable delay in my opinion. I need to now consider the 
impact this has had on Mr W, if any. 
Loss of rent
The policy provides cover for damage to the property as a result of flood and it also provides 
cover for loss of rent incurred by you or the resident of the building during the
period necessary to restore the building to a habitable condition if the buildings were
rendered uninhabitable due to any loss or damage caused by perils 1 to 13 of this section.
Perils 1- 13 include flood.
The policy also defines Loss of rent as being the Rent you would have received but have 
lost (including up to two years ground rent) or anticipated rent in respect of buildings 
damaged in the course of construction by any cause which would have been insured
following completion and handover to you.
Accelerant has agreed to pay loss of rent at the rate set out in the assured shorthold tenancy 
in place at the time of the damage to the property. I think this is the rent Mr W would have 
received but for the insured damage. 
Mr W has said he should also be compensated for the fact he could have increased the rent 
charged during the time the claim was ongoing. He says rents in his area have increased 
significantly after the Covid-19 lockdown period ended and he could have charged an 
additional £200 a month.
As the Investigator pointed out, the policy does not give any provision for rent increases in 
the event of extended restoration works. However, given that the restoration works have 
taken longer than they reasonably should, and this is as a result of failings on Accelerants 
part, it is reasonable to consider if this delay has caused Mr W additional financial loss. This 
is not restricted to items covered by the insurance policy. However, I have not seen any convincing evidence that Mr W would have been able to 
achieve a higher rent than he had been receiving at the time of the insured damage. It is 
possible he might have done but it is also possible hed have continued with the same long-
term tenant he had in the property at the same rate agreed with them. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that it would be reasonable to require Accelerant to pay an 
additional amount for potential rent increases. 
However, there seems to have been some delay in Mr W receiving some of the loss of rent 
payments from Accelerant. It is not clear when each loss of rent payment was made but it 
appears a few months loss was paid at a time but in arrears. As this is an indemnity policy, 
and the loss of rent would have crystalised at the end of each monthly period the claim was 
ongoing, I consider that Accelerant should have been paying Mr W for this loss each month. 
I therefore think it would be fair for interest to be added, at our usual rate, on each months 
loss of rent payment from the date it would otherwise have been paid by the tenant, to the 
date of reimbursement by Accelerant. 
I also do not know when the repairs were completed, so for the avoidance of doubt the loss 
of rent should be paid up to the date the property restoration work was completed. 
Council tax
Mr W has also said that because of the delays he has had to pay the council tax on the 
property which would ordinarily be paid by his tenant. As I consider Accelerant should have 
had the property repaired a lot sooner that it has, I consider it reasonable to reimburse Mr W 
for this financial loss, which he would not otherwise have incurred if it were not for 
Accelerants delays. 
As it is difficult to determine exactly when the repairs should have been completed, and 
there is also the possibility of delay in getting a tenant in, I consider the Investigators 
recommendation that Accelerant pay half the council tax from the date Mr W first had to pay 
it after the leak (which appears to be April 2022) to the date the property repairs were 
finished, to be reasonable. It is not an exact science but I think this is fair and reasonable 
overall. I also think interest should be added to these payments from the date Mr W made 
each payment to the date of reimbursement.
Compensation
I also agree with the Investigator that some additional compensation is warranted in addition 
to the meeting of the claim and the reimbursement of the financial losses that Ive set out 
above. As the Investigator pointed out, Mr W was not living at the insured property but I 
accept the delays would have caused him a great deal of frustration and inconvenience. He 
also had to spend considerable time chasing Accelerant and its loss adjusters for updates 
and progress. Having considered everything, I agree that the sum of £500 is appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Accelerant Insurance 
Europe SA to do the following: 
1. Pay Mr W loss of rent for the period from the date of the first months lost rent after 
the insured event to the date the repairs were completed. Interest should be added at 
8% simple per annum from the date that each months rent would have been due 
under the tenancy agreement, to the date of reimbursement by Accelerant. I understand Accelerant has already made some payments towards the loss of rent. 
Any payments it has already made are to be taken into account and it only now 
needs to pay any remaining outstanding amounts and the interest.
2. Pay Mr W for half of the council tax he has paid for the insured property, since the 
claim was made to the date that the property repairs were completed. Interest should 
be added at 8% simple per annum from the date Mr W made each payment to the 
date of reimbursement by Accelerant. 
3. Pay Mr W £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman