DRN-2259461
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Es complaint is about the handling of a claim for a damaged phone 
under their mobile phone insurance policy with Assurant General Insurance Limited.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month, part of which is copied 
below: 
Mr E made a claim in June 2019, when his phone screen was damaged. Assurant 
accepted the claim and carried out a repair. The phone was sent back to Mr E on 5 
July 2019 but he contacted Assurant again on 17 July 2019, to say it was still faulty. 
Assurant repaired it again and returned it to Mr E on 23 July 2019. In September 
2019, Mr E reported that the screen was still faulty. Assurant therefore suggested it 
replace the phone. As Mr Es insured phone wasnt available, other options of similar 
specification were offered and agreed. However, Assurant sent out incorrect 
replacement phones twice.
Assurant then offered to make a cash settlement, of £155, so Mr E could replace the 
phone himself.
Mr E is not happy with the service provided and also said the cash settlement offer is 
not enough to buy a replacement phone of the same make and model, as his insured 
phone. Mr E has raised a number of points, which Ive summarised below:
he had to take time off work to be at home when the phones were delivered 
and he has had to spend considerable time resolving this matter. He wants 
Assurant to pay compensation to reflect Mr Es loss of earnings.
He has lost information from his phone, as he had to transfer the contents to 
an old phone before each doorstep exchange and then back onto the new 
phone, which has caused problems.
He was without a phone for a few days each time it was sent for repair, which 
caused inconvenience.
He had to spend considerable time on the phone to Assurant resolving each 
issue and on occasion Assurant refused to speak to him, as its agents 
incorrectly said the policy was in Mrs Es sole name.
And often when he called, hed be told there were no notes about the claim on 
Assurants system and hed have to go through everything again.
Assurant accepted that its service fell short of what Mr and Mrs E were entitled to 
expect and offered £100 compensation for this.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that it be 
upheld. He said that Assurants offers of settlement were fair and in line with the 
policy terms. The replacement phones were of equivalent specification and a 
refurbished model of his insured phone could be purchased for the £155 offered.
The investigator was also satisfied that the £100 offered was sufficient to 
compensate Mr and Mrs E for the trouble caused by the handling of the claim. 
The investigator didnt think Mr E had established a claim for loss of earnings.
Mr and Mrs E do not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been 
passed to me. Mr E also pointed out the claim had still not been settled. He had 
confirmed he accepted the replacement offered by Assurant in September 2019 but 
it had sent him a different make and model incorrectly. He was still willing to accept 
the phone offered and wanted that sent out. Mr E contacted Assurant about this and 
the correct phone was finally sent out to him in March 2020. Mr E says he had to 
stay in for another doorstep exchange, as Assurant would not agree to delivering the 
replacement and then Mr E sending the previous phone in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Es frustration with the way this claim was handled. The 
phone was repaired twice but the repairs were not effective and did not last long. So the 
phone had to be sent off again and then the wrong replacement phone was delivered 
twice. So Mr E had to contact Assurant each time there was an issue and there were 
difficulties with these calls. In all there were four or five appointments for collection or 
exchange of the phone, when there should really have needed to be only one. There were 
also considerable difficulties in resolving the matter on the phone.
Regarding the cash settlement offered, there are two examples on the file of 
refurbished handsets of the same make and model as Mr Es phone for sale; one for 
less than £155 and one for £200. While Assurant is entitled to offer the amount 
required to purchase a refurbished model, this should be widely available at the 
amount offered and so Mr E should have a choice of reputable suppliers to choose 
from. I dont think the offer made met this criteria. Mr E was not acting unreasonably 
in rejecting this offer but in any event, he asked for the replacement phone offered to 
him to be provided.
Overall, Mr E has received a particularly poor service. His phone was not properly 
repaired, twice, and he was sent the wrong replacement twice. He confirmed 
acceptance of the offer of a further replacement but this wasnt actioned and he was 
therefore without a properly working phone for many months. While he had rejected 
the cash settlement offered, this shouldnt have meant his claim was left on hold. In 
Mr Es complaint to Assurant he asked again for the replacement phone as offered, to 
be sent to him. That should have been done in September 2019 but didnt happen 
until he chased it in March 2020.
I agree with the investigator that there is not enough evidence to support a claim for 
loss of earnings, as there is no conclusive evidence to support this as far as I am 
aware, but I do not agree that £100 is sufficient to reflect the trouble caused to Mr E 
by this matter. Overall, I consider the sum of £300 to be more appropriate 
compensation for this matter.
My provisional decisionI intend to uphold this complaint against Assurant Insurance Company Limited and require it 
to pay Mr E the sum of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr and Mrs E have confirmed they accept my provisional decision. 
Assurant has also responded and does not accept my provisional decision. It says Mr E did 
not have to take time off work, as it could have delivered the phones to any address in the 
UK, or to a local shop for him to collect. It also says it cant be responsible for any lost data, 
as this is excluded under the terms of the policy. Assurant also says it is not responsible for 
the time Mr E was without use of his phone while waiting for repairs to be done. It would be 
prepared to pay £200 compensation but £300 is excessive. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant says it is not reasonable for it to pay for loss of earnings or compensation for lost 
data. I set out in my provisional decision why I did not intend to make any award for loss of 
earnings. I concluded there was not enough evidence to make such an award but did 
consider that the number of appointments required for delivery and exchange of the phones 
would have caused inconvenience and frustration. There should not have been the need for 
so many appointments and, wherever the deliveries were made to, this would have caused 
inconvenience. I also did not suggest any award for loss of data, as there was no further 
evidence about this. 
I provisionally determined that there had been several failings in the handling of this claim: 
Mr Es phone was not properly repaired, twice, and he was sent the wrong replacement 
twice. Mr E had to spend considerable time dealing with the matter on the phone and 
accommodating the deliveries and exchanges of the phone. Mr E also confirmed acceptance 
of the offer of a further replacement but this wasnt actioned for around six months and only 
after he chased it up. Assurant has not provided any further information that changes my 
opinion about these matters. I therefore remain of the opinion that £300 compensation is 
appropriate to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by these issues.  
My final decisionI uphold this complaint against Assurant Insurance Company Limited and require it to pay  
Mr E the sum of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman