DRN-2150862
The complaint
This complaint is about lender insurance only (LIO) premiums that were charged on
Mrs and Mr Ds mortgage with Oakwood Homeloans Limited. The historic premiums were
recently refunded after Oakwood was supplied with satisfactory evidence that the property
was already insured during the relevant periods. Mrs and Mr D, represented here by a firm of
solicitors Ill call O, say theyre entitled also to a refund of the mortgage interest that was
charged on the premiums.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
By way of a provisional decision dated 5 August 2020, I set out the reasons why I wasnt 
minded to uphold this complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional decision:
I dont need to make a finding on whether the premiums were fairly charged at the time; but
for completeness, Im satisfied they were. Nor do I need to make a finding on whether the
premiums were fairly refundable once Mrs and Mr D provided evidence of cover; but again,
for completeness, Im satisfied they were.
All Im required to decide here, as specified by O in its request that the case be determined
by an ombudsman, is whether Mrs and Mr D are also due a refund of mortgage interest
charged on those premiums. That being the case, the complaint is simpler than it has been
made to look.
The mortgage conditions allowed Oakwood to debit LIO premiums to the mortgage account,
and to charge interest on the premiums if Mrs and Mr D didnt then pay them. But
Mrs and Mr D did pay the premiums. Thats because their monthly instalments were
adjusted to include a contribution towards the premium. Provided each monthly instalment
was made in full and on time, the LIO premium for that year would be fully paid by the end of
each account year, and no interest would be chargeable on it. Oakwood explained this in the
final response it issued to O in respect of the complaint.
The evidence Ive seen from the parties so far doesnt suggest that Mrs and Mr D failed to
pay their monthly instalments in full when due. If they had, there would be evidence in
Oakwoods historic contact notes of arrears recovery activity; i.e. letters and/or phone calls
to discuss and set up payment arrangements. Id also expect them to have incurred arrears
fees.
Oakwoods evidence points to no interest having been charged; thus far, O hasnt provided
anything to contradict that. That being the case, I cant presently make any award against
Oakwood.
Oakwood accepted my provisional findings; despite a reminder, weve had no response from 
O on behalf of Mrs and Mr D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive no reason to depart 
from my provisional conclusions, so I dont.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against Oakwood 
Homeloans Limited. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman