DRN-3172005
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has turned 
down a cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M hold travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs M booked a holiday to a country Ill call A. They were due to 
travel between 15 March and 5 April 2020. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. And 
in the early hour of 15 March 2020, As government introduced a requirement for all 
passengers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival. The Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the FCO) published this guidance on its website on 
the same day.
As this guidance meant Mr and Mrs M wouldve needed to self-isolate in a hotel in A for 14 
days and also because their airline couldnt guarantee that it would be able to provide a 
return flight, Mr and Mr M decided to cancel their trip. They made a claim for the costs 
associated with cancelling their trip, although they were later able to obtain a refund of some 
of their flight costs.
AIG turned down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. It said that the circumstances of the claim werent 
covered by the policy terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with AIGs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. While he 
understood why theyd chosen to cancel their trip, he didnt think that the policy terms 
covered cancellation due to the introduction of self-isolation restrictions in another country. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They felt they were being penalised for taking proactive decisions 
in a fast-changing situation. AIG hadnt been contactable at the time theyd decided to cancel 
the trip. By cancelling their trip, they hadnt incurred any additional costs. Theyd taken out 
insurance to cover unexpected events and they didnt feel that AIG had fully highlighted the 
policy exclusions.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I think it was fair for AIG to turn 
down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether 
AIG treated them fairly.
Ive first turned to consider the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, as these form 
the basis of their contract with AIG. As Mr and Mrs M didnt travel on their holiday, I think it 
was appropriate for AIG to assess their claim in line with the Cancelling your trip section of 
the policy. This sets out the listed, insured events AIG covers in the event a policyholder has 
to cancel their trip. These are:
1. You dying, becoming seriously ill or being injured. 
2. The death, serious illness or injury of a relative, a close business associate, a person 
who you have booked to travel with or a relative or friend living abroad who you had 
planned to stay with. The incident giving rise to the claim must have been 
unexpected and not something you were aware of when your Signature Current 
Account was opened and/or your trip was booked. 
3. You being made redundant, as long as you had been working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum continuous period of two years, and that at the time your 
Signature Current Account was opened or your trip was booked, whichever is the 
earlier, you had no reason to believe that you would be made redundant. This cover 
would not apply if you are self-employed or accept voluntary redundancy. 
4. You or a person who you have booked to travel with being called for jury service (and 
your request to postpone your service has been rejected) or attending court as a 
witness (but not as an expert witness). 
5. If the Police or relevant authorities need you to stay in the United Kingdom after a 
fire, storm, flood, burglary or vandalism to your home or place of business within 
seven days before you planned to leave on your trip. 
6. If you are a member of the armed forces or Police, fire, nursing or ambulance 
services which results in you having to stay in the United Kingdom due to an 
unforeseen emergency or if you are posted overseas unexpectedly. 
7. If after the time you booked your trip the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
advises against all but essential travel to your intended destination. (Emphasis 
added.)
8. If you become pregnant after your Signature Current Account was opened and/or 
your trip was booked and you will be more than 26 weeks pregnant at the start of or 
during your trip. Or, if your doctor advises that you are not fit to travel due to 
complications in your pregnancy. 
9.Applicable to travel based solely within the United Kingdom  if you are unable to 
attend your pre-booked event as a result of the vehicle you were planning to travel in 
being involved in an accident within seven days prior to the event taking place, which 
leaves the vehicle unusable.
In my view, AIG has clearly set out the insured events it covers should a policyholder need 
to cancel their trip. This includes if the FCDO advises against all but essential travel to a 
policyholders destination.
However, in this case, Mr and Mrs M didnt cancel their trip because the FCDO had advised 
against all but essential travel to A. On the day they cancelled their holiday  15 March 2020  the FCDO hadnt advised against all but essential travel to A. It had published details of 
the requirements of As government for all passengers to self-isolate for 14 days following 
their arrival in A. And as our investigator said, the introduction of quarantine or self-isolation 
requirements by the government of a policyholders intended destination simply arent a 
listed event which AIG covers under this section of the policy. 
Ive looked carefully at the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, but I dont think any 
section provides cover in the specific circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms claim. Id add too that 
this policy doesnt exclude claims arising from the imposition of quarantine or self-isolation 
requirements, so I wouldnt expect AIG to explain this in the policy terms. Instead, this 
situation just isnt something which AIG has chosen to cover. 
I do understand that Covid-19 posed unprecedented challenges to travel providers and 
passengers, as the situation was fast-moving. I can also understand why Mr and Mrs M 
didnt want to incur additional costs by having to organise a hotel stay for self-isolation 
purposes or run the risk of becoming stranded in A if their airline cancelled their return 
flights. So I sympathise with their position and appreciate why they felt they had little choice 
but to cancel their trip. I also understand that they werent able to speak with AIG prior to 
cancelling it.
However, for the reasons Ive set out above and in these particular circumstances, I dont 
think it was unfair for AIG to conclude that their claim wasnt covered by the terms of their 
policy. And I also think, given Mr and Mrs Ms concerns both about quarantine; the costs 
theyd have incurred in self-isolating in A and their ability to return to the UK, theyd always 
have likely decided to cancel their trip irrespective of whether theyd been able to speak to 
AIG beforehand. So I find it was fair for AIG to turn down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman