DRN-4306746
The complaint
Miss T complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) lent to her 
irresponsibly and didnt support her in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss T had a credit card from M&S since 2013. The limit was originally £1,500. Limit 
increases were applied as follows:
Date Limit
October 2015 £2,500
August 2016 £3,500
December 2018 £4,500
June 2019 £5,500
In February 2022, Miss T fell into financial difficulty. She was signed off from her job and 
couldnt work after that. She contacted M&S and they agreed a two month breathing space. 
No interest or fees were applied. M&S were advised that Miss T was seeking help from a 
debt advice agency  with a view to getting an IVA or debt relief order. But she then 
cancelled her relationship with the agency.
In August 2022, Miss T called M&S. She said she had set her situation out in a letter dated 1 
August 2022. On the call, she said she had no income (other than benefits). An affordability 
check was completed and she had monthly income of £1,407 and expenses (before debt 
repayments) of £1,408. She said she had debts of £66,000. M&S agreed a no affordability 
hold on the account with no payments, and zero interest and fees  for six months. 
A Notice of Default had been issued in June 2022 with the balance £5,500 and arrears of 
£346.88. Formal demand was made on 24 August 2022  the balance was then £5,499 and 
arrears £758.38. A default was registered on 13 September 2022.
Miss T complained. She said the increases in limit couldnt have been properly checked  as 
she had many other debts at the time. She could never have afforded the borrowing. She 
said she had set out her situation in a letter to M&S dated 1 August 2022 but had no 
response. She offered £1 per month, but hadnt had a reply. All she received was arrears 
notices and default letters. She remains out of work, and says shes suffered mental health 
issues due to her debt problems with M&S. She says M&S should refund interest and fees, 
remove the default, and pay compensation.
M&S said they hadnt received the letter dated 1 August 2022 from Miss T. When she called 
M&S on 26 August 2022, it was clear she couldnt afford to pay anything  and a no 
affordability hold was placed on her account for six months  until March 2023. Her account 
defaulted on 13 September 2022. When the last increase (to £5,500) was made in June 
2019  M&S said they completed their credit checks, based on how she had operated her 
account. Miss T was offered the chance to opt out of the increase but didnt. 
Miss T brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said M&S had completed their credit 
checks and these appeared to be sufficient  although she hadnt seen them. Miss T had 
maintained her account satisfactorily and made the monthly payments, sometimes paying 
more than the minimum. So  the limit increases looked OK. She could also see that M&S 
had supported Miss T when she fell into financial difficulty. She didnt uphold Miss Ts 
complaint.
Miss T didnt agree. She set out that she had other debts of over £42,000 at the time of the 
last increase in June 2019. M&S couldnt have taken account of that. And she sent in 
medical evidence which said she was suffering from stress and anxiety, due to feeling 
overwhelmed by her financial situation. She said she was still unable to work due to the debt 
problems she encountered  and the harm to her physical and mental health. 
Miss T asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come to me to do that.
I made a provisional decision which said:
There are two aspects to Miss Ts complaint:
- The increases in limits  and were these responsible.
- Whether M&S supported her when she fell into in financial difficulty.
Limit increases:
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether M&S 
acted in line within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the 
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to 
make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender knew 
about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made.
Miss T complained to us in January 2023. Under our rules, we cannot investigate anything 
that occurred more than six years before that  so I cannot look at the limit increases in July 
2016 and before  I can see that Miss T accepts that.Limit increase  December 2018: £4,500 (from £3,500):
M&S say Miss T was making the necessary payments to her account  and I can see that 
was the case. M&S have set out that Miss T made monthly payments of an average of £876 
over the previous five months - i.e. 19.5% of the new limit. This was considered to be 
satisfactory to offer the increase.
We asked M&S for more details about the checks they did at the time, particularly 
concerning Miss Ts debts elsewhere. M&S did say they would send more details, but 
nothing has been submitted.
Miss T has sent to us her credit file covering this period. It shows she had other unsecured  
debts of around £24,000 at the time of the increase  in addition to the M&S credit card  i.e. 
total debts of £28,500. Her income and expenditure form shows she earnt around £15,000 
(gross) per annum and was a tenant. 
While I can see that Miss T was making the necessary payments to those debts - I think for 
a customer to have total unsecured debts of approximately twice their annual gross income 
 is a lot. So  it seems to me that if M&S had done some checks about her overall situation, 
they wouldve asked to see a full affordability check and debt profile - and, on the balance of 
probability, not offered the increase.
Limit increase  June 2019: £5,500 (from £4,500): 
M&S told us that Miss T was making the necessary payments to her account  and had paid 
22% of her new limit each month. M&S said this was satisfactory for them to agree to offer 
the increase.
Similarly, we asked M&S for more details about the checks they did at the time, particularly 
concerning Miss Ts debts elsewhere. M&S did say they would send more details, but 
nothing has been submitted to us. So, I must assume M&S didnt carry out that check.
Miss Ts credit file shows she had other unsecured debts of around £42,000 at the time of 
this increase  in addition to the M&S credit card  i.e. total debts of £47,500. This had 
therefore increased significantly from only six months previously. 
I can see that Miss T was making the necessary payments to those other debts  but I think 
for a customer to have total (short term) unsecured debts of approximately three times their 
annual gross income  is a lot. So  it seems to me that if M&S had done some checks 
about her overall situation, they wouldve asked to see a full affordability check and, on the 
balance of probability, not offered the increase.
Therefore, I consider that M&S should refund the interest and fees paid on Miss Ts M&S 
debt on balances over £3,500 from December 2018 to the date of settlement.
Whether M&S supported her when she fell into in financial difficulty:
Businesses have an obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically and 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that businesses like M&S should treat customers 
in difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. For example, a business might 
suspend or waive interest, accept lower payments or defer them, and allow customers more 
time to repay their debt.After Miss T fell into financial difficulty, I can see that M&S:
- Placed a hold on Miss Ts account in February 2022 for two months, and no interest 
or fees were charged. As part of that, no letters or calls were sent or made. 
Regulatory letters were sent - as they had to be.
- When Miss T spoke to M&S on 26 August 2022  they completed an income & 
expenditure form  this showed Miss T had no spare income to make any debt 
payments. I listened to the call  which was professional, empathetic and clear. M&S 
call handler did say there was no point in setting a payment of £1 per month  as if 
really wouldnt make a difference, and Miss T couldnt afford it anyway. 
A no affordability standstill was agreed for six months  again, without any interest 
or fees being charged. The call handler explained that a Notice of Default would be 
sent, and then a full default registered. She said Miss Ts credit file would be marked 
with the default. So Im satisfied that was made clear. I heard Miss T say she 
accepted that outcome. And  as the arrears by that time were £758.38, I dont think 
M&S had any alternative other than to apply the default.
- Miss T says she had been upset and stressed because she had set out her situation 
in a letter dated 1 August 2022. We asked M&S about that and they told us they 
hadnt received it. I think we must accept that  and in any case, I think Miss Ts 
situation was fully dealt with in the call on 26 August 2022.
Therefore, Im satisfied that M&S supported Miss T when she fell into financial difficulty.
Miss T has argued that the default should be removed  on the basis that M&S shouldnt 
have increased her limit in the way they did. But  Miss Ts income and expenditure form 
dated August 2022 shows she had no capacity to make any payments to her M&S debt. I 
think its reasonable to say that wouldve been the case even if M&S hadnt increased her 
limit after December 2018  i.e. she couldnt have made the payments to the pre-existing, 
lower limit of £3,500 anyway. I say that because the minimum contractual payment was 
around £85-90 per month in 2018 (before the increase to £4,500), which she couldnt have 
afforded after she fell into difficulty.
In summary, my provisional decision is that:
- M&S shouldve made further checks when increasing Miss Ts limits in December 
2018 and June 2019. If they had, they wouldve seen Miss Ts total debt situation and 
not increased her limit. And therefore M&S should refund all interest and fees from 
December 2018 to the date of settlement  on balances over £3,500.
- Miss T has clearly suffered a great deal of stress and anxiety over her debt situation. 
She has submitted evidence in support of that. Equally, I think it is also fair to say 
that this cant be solely the responsibility of M&S  given Miss Ts other debts. But on 
balance I think its fair that M&S pay compensation of £200.
The default should not be removed  because I consider it wouldve taken place anyway, 
based on Miss Ts prior limits with M&S and in the light of the unfortunate circumstances she 
found herself in.
Responses to the provisional decision:
M&S made the point that they did carry out income/expenditure assessment at the point of 
each increase and sent those to us.Miss T agreed, and asked:
- if the compensation could be paid to her directly. 
- that M&S provide a breakdown of the refund of interest and charges.
- If M&S would provide interest-free borrowing for the life of the debt.
I now need to consider these responses and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the assessments done by M&S at each increase. But in all honesty, they only 
confirm what I said in the provisional decision. They show that M&S could see that at the 
time of the first increase, Miss T had unsecured debts of £36,700, increasing to £47,200 by 
the last increase. For a customer earning £15,000 per annum (gross), this was clearly a 
significant amount and it wouldve been reasonable to expect M&S to ask questions of Miss 
T before increasing her limits in the way they did.
On Miss Ts questions:
- We agree that the compensation can be paid to her directly.
- We agree that M&S should provide a breakdown of the refunds
- It is for M&S to decide whether Miss Ts request is viable or not, and for a discussion 
to take place  this is out of scope of this decision.
Therefore, my final decision is in line with the provisional decision. (continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc must:
- refund all interest and fees from December 2018 on balances over £3,500 to the date 
of settlement. And advise Miss T of the breakdown of the refund.
- Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience. This should be paid direct 
to Miss T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman