DRN-3678383
The Complaint
Mr M says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product on 30 August 2006 (the Time of
Sale).
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mr Ms because only he was named on 
the credit agreement that gave rise to it. But as the holiday product that the claim related to 
was in his name and that of his wife (Mrs M), Ill refer to both of them at times throughout this 
decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs M purchased membership of a holiday club at the Time of Sale from a provider 
(the Supplier). And they helped to pay for that purchase by taking finance from BPF in 
Mr Ms name (the Credit Agreement).
Unhappy with the purchase, Mr M made a CCA claim using a professional representative 
(LF) on 5 June 2019 (the Letter of Claim). And that Letter focused, in the main, on alleged 
misrepresentations by the Supplier and made it clear at the beginning and at the end that 
Mr M was making a claim pursuant to Section 75 of the CCA.
As the reasons for Mr Ms claim are likely to be familiar with both sides, I wont repeat them 
here. However, the upshot of that claim was that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have made the 
purchase in question but for the Suppliers misrepresentations.
As BPF didnt respond to Mr Ms claim, a complaint about its handling of the claim was 
referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. And on notifying BPF of the referral, it said 
that it hadnt received the claim.
Nonetheless, BPF told an investigator that it thought Mr Ms claim had been made out of 
time under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
The complaint was then looked at by another investigator who, having considered the 
information available to him, rejected the complaint on the basis that Mr Ms claim was late 
under the LA.
Mr M, who was now represented by a different professional representative (M), disagreed.
And, in summary, M asked the investigator to consider the following:
Irresponsible lending as no affordability checks were undertaken by the Supplier.
Pressure as the sales presentation lasted 4 to 5 hours and Mr and Mrs M werent 
allowed to leave  which clearly gives rise to an unfair relationship contrary to Section 
140A of the CCA.
Tactics used by the Supplier were nothing short of undue influence.
Mr and Mrs M were told that their membership was an investment when it clearly wasnt.
Mr and Mrs M should have had the opportunity to thoroughly review the contract and
make an informed, unpressured decision.
The Supplier was not authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority, such that the Credit 
Agreement was void in light of a breach of Section 19 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000.
The Supplier received undisclosed commission from BPF  which would give rise to an
unfair relationship under Section 140A of the CCA.
The Supplier was selling the same product to many consumers knowing full well that, if
they all wanted to holiday at the same time as Mr and Mrs M, it wasnt possible to
accommodate that. So, each and every misrepresentation by the Supplier was
fraudulent.
Mr and Mrs M could not have known that the Suppliers misrepresentations were
fraudulent or what remedy was available to them until they instructed M who, in turn, told
them that the misrepresentations were fraudulent.
Mr M can rely on Section 32 of the LA to extend the time available to claim.
In response, the investigator told M that the complaint about irresponsible lending hadnt 
been made before. So, it needed to put the allegation to BPF first before he could consider 
it. And as for Ms other arguments, he wasnt persuaded that any of them led him to a 
different conclusion to that which he arrived at in his assessment.
However, as an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred for an
ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 3 August 2022. And, in summary, I thought the 
substance of this complaint was confined to BPFs handling of a Section 75 claim for 
misrepresentation  which I also thought had been made out of time under the LA.
Neither side added to what had been said and/or provided in response to my PD. And as the 
deadline for responses has now been and gone, Ive considered the complaint for a Final 
Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think it should be upheld.
As Ive said before, the Letter of Claim focused, in the main, on alleged misrepresentations
by the Supplier and the Letter made it clear at the beginning and at the end that Mr M was 
making a claim pursuant to Section 75 of the CCA.I acknowledged in my PD that the Letter of Claim was headed RE: S.75 AND / OR S.140A 
CONSUMER CREDIT ACT 1974. But as I also said in my PD, the Letter of Claim didnt 
assert at any stage that Mr Ms claim was pursuant to Section 140A or clearly suggest that 
the relationship between him and BPF was unfair  nor, in my view, was there enough in the 
substance of the Letter from which I could reasonably infer that such a claim was being 
made in practice even though there wasnt any express reference to it. And as Mr Ms 
Complaint Form did nothing to suggest otherwise when this complaint was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, on my reading of this complaint, I thought it was confined to 
BPFs handling of a Section 75 claim for misrepresentation  which I still think is the case 
now.
So, while I continue to recognise Mr M might have a number of concerns about the way in 
which the product in question was sold to him and Mrs M that M says led to an unfair 
relationship, as I said in my PD, BPF must be given an opportunity to deal with those first
as part of a separate Section 140A claim.
The same can also still be said of the complaints about the finance being granted 
irresponsibly and the Supplier not being an authorised credit broker.
The Section 75 Claim for Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors 
[2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action 
founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr M made a like claim against BPF under Section 75 of the CCA and the limitation period 
for that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. So, this means that he 
had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr M entered into the
purchase and Credit Agreements. I say this because he entered into the purchase
agreement based on the misrepresentations of the Supplier  which he relied on. And as the 
finance from BPF was used to help finance the purchase, it was when he entered into the 
Credit Agreement that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued when Mr M entered into the purchase
agreement or, if later, the Credit Agreement  which means he had six years from either of
those points in time to make a claim. But as he didnt do that until June 2019, his claim is 
likely to have been late. And for that reason, I still think BPF had and has a defence to it
under the LA.
Grounds to Extend Time
M says that the Suppliers misrepresentations were fraudulent  which he could not have 
known until he was told that was the case by M. It also says that Mr M can rely on 
Section 32 of the LA to extend the time available to claim.
However, I still cant see why the mere fact that the Supplier sold the same product to a 
number of consumers who may have wanted to holiday at similar times of the year 
automatically leads to the conclusion that each and every misrepresentation (if made) 
would have been fraudulent. And based on what Ive seen, Im still not persuaded that the 
elements necessary to make such a finding are satisfied.Section 32(1)(b) applies when any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant. And as I said in my PD, M seems to 
suggest, though its still not entirely clear, that the undisclosed commission received by the 
Supplier engages that provision. But given the allegations fuelling Mr Ms Section 75 claim, 
it remains the case that I cant see why that particular issue prevented him from making the 
claim in question earlier.
So, Im still not persuaded that theres a reason why time might be extended in keeping with 
the provisions of the LA.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman