DRN-3771816
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain they were mis-sold a mortgage protection and critical illness policy 
by HSBC UK Bank Plc. They say they were told they had to have the cover in order to get a 
mortgage, but theyve since found out they didnt need it. 
What happened
In July 2003, Mr and Mrs L took out a new mortgage and were advised to also take out a 
mortgage protection plan with critical illness cover (CIC) at the same time.  The policy term 
and sum assured matched the new mortgage they were taking out. 
In April 2022, they raised a complaint with HSBC. They raised concerns about the suitability 
of the policy for their circumstances. They also said that they were told they had to take 
cover in order to get their mortgage agreed. 
HSBC responded. It didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
- Having reviewed the sales documentation, there was no evidence Mr and Mrs L were 
told the policy had to be taken as a condition of the borrowing. HSBC has never 
implemented the condition that customers must have CIC to hold a mortgage. 
- It found no fault with the recommendation for the policy, it matched the term and amount 
of the new borrowing and cancellation rights were provided.
As they didnt agree with the outcome, Mr and Mrs L referred that complaint to this service 
for an independent review. One of our investigators completed an assessment. He didnt 
uphold the complaint. In summary he said he hadnt seen anything to support the policy was 
a condition of HSBC offering a mortgage. He was satisfied the type of illnesses covered by 
the policy were clearly defined by the documents Mr and Mrs L received at the point of sale. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to reach 
a decision on the complaint. They reiterated that they didnt ask for the cover and had it 
forced on them at the time of getting a mortgage, misleading them into thinking they needed 
it to greater the chance of getting the mortgage they wanted.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before going on to look at the wider suitability of the advice, Ive first considered what 
appears to be Mr and Mrs Ls main complaint point. That relates to their recollection that 
they were misled into thinking they had to take out the policy in order to get their mortgage 
approved. Ive considered their testimony about this.
However, HSBC say that the policy wasnt required for the mortgage to be granted  and the 
only insurance that was a requirement of the lending was home insurance. It says it has 
never implemented the condition that customers have to have CIC to hold a mortgage.
Ive looked at the other evidence available. HSBC has provided a copy of the personal 
financial review document. This records what was discussed in the advice meeting. It 
records that Mr and Mrs L had some existing protection cover (a life and CIC policy), which 
wasnt sufficient to cover the new mortgage but they wished to keep it for family protection. It 
says they wanted to take additional cover for the new mortgage. In the summary of needs 
section, the adviser identified that Mr and Mrs L had a need for CIC. He notes that they 
would like their mortgage repaid in the event of either of them suffering a critical illness, so 
he strongly recommended they take out a CIC policy with a benefit level and term in line with 
their new mortgage. A recommendation letter was also produced. This letter set out the 
products the adviser recommended to Mr and Mrs L including the mortgage protection 
policy.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L say the adviser forced the cover on them. But the evidence 
available indicates that the adviser made a recommendation as he had identified they had a 
strong need for the cover. I think this is different to insisting the policy was taken. There isnt 
anything in the evidence from the sale that suggests there was a conditional link between 
taking the policy and the mortgage being granted. It may be that the adviser was very 
persuasive about the benefits of taking out the cover, but Ive not seen enough to satisfy me 
that he unduly pressured Mr and Mrs L.
Ive gone on to consider whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs L at the time. It's 
quite normal for recommendations of life and/or CIC to be made in conjunction with new 
mortgage borrowing. Indeed, they had another policy covering their existing mortgage. I can 
see from the documentation completed at the time that consideration was given to their 
specific circumstances and what cover they already had in place (which was insufficient to 
cover the new mortgage). Based on what I understand of their personal circumstances  
including their employment status and existing cover  CIC for their new mortgage would 
have been useful for them in the event that they were diagnosed with one of the relevant 
conditions.
I note Mr and Mr L have mentioned that they did inquire about making a claim but this was 
not accepted. While I can appreciate it will have been disappointing for them to discover that 
Mrs Ls particular health problem wasn't covered, I don't think that's an indication that the 
cover was of no use or benefit. There were many other illnesses that were covered, and they 
would not in all circumstances have led to death, so the pay out the policy would've provided 
would have been very useful. As such, I think the recommendation of CIC to Mr and Mrs L 
was still suitable.
It follows that I havent found reason to uphold the complaint, so I will not be asking HSBC to 
do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman