DRN-2658134
The complaint
Ms U is unhappy with how Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) has handled her claim for 
defects under the Defects Insurance section of her Premier Guarantee. 
What happened
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this complaint the last being on 24 February 2021 
detailing my intention to uphold Miss Us complaint. Ive included parts of this decision 
below.
There are three main issues Ms U remains dissatisfied with and asked this service to 
consider.
The first issue is rain water is getting into the property around the frames of the sash 
windows. Amtrust has accepted that this issue is considered a defect under the terms and 
conditions of the defects insurance section of the policy. Amtrust offered a cash settlement 
of £4,665.63, less the £100 policy excess. Ms U hasnt agreed as she remains unconvinced 
the cash settlement offered is a fair reflection of what it will cost her to remedy the ingress of 
water around the windows.
The second issue is regarding the effectiveness of underfloor heating system. Several 
reports have been produced detailing possible problems and adjustments have been made 
to the system to try and rectify the problem. In September 2019 the system was flushed and 
re-tested. Amtrust believes the underfloor heating is efficiently working as it should be, but 
Ms U doesnt agree.
The final issue is regarding the radiator in the bathroom. Ms U has said that this radiator 
comes on whenever the underfloor heating is switched on to heat other rooms. The only way 
she can control it is to use the thermostatic radiator valve on the radiator. Amtrust dont 
agree that this is a defect as defined by the terms and conditions of the policy so has said 
this isnt an issue covered by the policy.
Ive considered both parties comments. And it is clear both would prefer to cash settle this 
complaint. So, bearing this in mind my provisional direction is as follows.
Windows - Amtrust to arrange for a window specialist to investigate all the causes to 
the affected windows that formed the initial claim made in 2014. I dont agree that it is 
fair for the other windows to be inspected that didnt form the original claim. Based on 
the new inspection a new cash settlement will be sent to Ms U.
Heating - Amtrust to arrange for a specialised underfloor heating expert to lift some of 
the floor in the bedroom to inspect the underfloor heating pipework and insulation. If 
any issues are identified with the installation a cash offer can be made to Ms U. If no 
issue is found, then Ms U would have to accept the finding or at her own cost obtain 
another independent specialised report to show the underfloor heating isnt working 
as per the technical manual. The report can then be considered by Amtrust.
Bathroom - Amtrust to send a qualified workman to discuss and obtain quote to 
change the control from a thermostat to a single channel clock and make a cash 
settlement to Ms U.
Alternative accommodation - Appropriate provision under the alternative
accommodation section of the policy should be used if its found the property is 
uninhabitable during these works. I think this will only be if all the floors must come 
up due to the underfloor heating and Ms U doesnt have access to washing and 
cooking facilities.
I have considered the comments Ms U had about not accepting a scope of works and
therefore, a cash settlement if it included the use of Spacetherm. Having looked at 
the policy under the exclusions applicable to all sections of the policy, under the 
heading reasonableness it says:
In the event of a valid claim under the Policy the Underwriter shall only be 
responsible for costs and expenses that a reasonable person would incur if spending 
their own money. Whenever possible if items can be found to match existing items at 
a reasonable cost the Underwriter will endeavour to facilitate this. However, the 
Underwriter will have no liability and will not be responsible for any additional costs if 
a similar match is not possible at a reasonable cost.
So, while I understand Ms Us concerns, ultimately Amtrust have the right to explore 
alternative repair techniques or materials and Im satisfied that this method can form part of 
the quote.
Both parties have responded. Amtrust agreed with the provisional decision but reiterated it 
didnt think alternative accommodation would be required.
Ms U responded. In summary:
Ms U feels not all the root causes will be addressed with the windows and 
investigations should take into account both the potential damp in the cavity closures 
and problems with insulation as well as potential defective design or manufacture of 
the windows.
Ms U has asked for any quote to include works to dry-line some specific parts of the 
property. 
In response to my thoughts on Amtrust's use of the Spacetherm product, Ms U has 
reiterated her concerns that it will take up additional space and it should use an 
alternative.
Ms U has asked for an itemised cash offer from Amtrust.
Ms U also has also said she believes Amtrust had deliberately made mistakes and 
highlighted the impact of this on her - asking for compensation to be increased. 
Ms U also made a number of suggested additions to my proposed direction in light of her 
comments above.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand why Ms U has made specific requests about what should form part of my 
recommendations and the scope of the repairs for the windows. Ive considered that Amtrust 
are already aware of the issues identified to date and these were mentioned in my first 
provisional decision where I said Amtrust had identified that a number of the trickle vents to 
the heads of the windows are blocked with expanding foam, likely caused during installation. 
In addition, there are areas where cavities adjoin the window reveals and these are not fully 
insulated, allowing the cold air within the cavity to contact and cool the plasterboard, thus 
attracting moisture. The contractor also highlighted a concern that further installation and 
workmanship failures are likely to become apparent should further work proceed to strip 
back.
And in my latest provisional decision Ive specified Amtrust must arrange for a window 
specialist to investigate all the causes to the affected windows that formed the initial claim 
made in 2014. And based on this inspection a new cash settlement will be sent to Ms U. I 
dont agree with Ms U that I need to add further recommendations and will leave this to the 
window specialist that completes the inspection as this is their area of expertise.
Ms U has reiterated her concerns about the Spacetherm product. But shes not introduced 
any new arguments or evidence supporting this. So, my thoughts on this matter remain the 
same, and Im not persuaded it would be unreasonable for Amtrust to consider use of this 
method of repair.
In my provisional decision I also specified Amtrust to arrange for a specialised underfloor 
heating expert to lift some of the floor in the bedroom to inspect the underfloor heating 
pipework and insulation. And if any issues were identified with the installation a cash offer 
can be made to Ms U. If no issue was found, then Ms U would have to accept the finding or 
at her own cost obtain another independent specialised report to show the underfloor 
heating isnt working as per Amtrusts technical manual. The report could then be re-
considered by Amtrust.
Ms U has requested that the flooring is lifted, in the lounge as well as the bedroom. But I 
dont think this is practical or necessary at this stage. Should an issue be discovered, when 
part of the bedroom floor is lifted, I would expect Amtrust to reconsider this matter as its 
likely investigation would then be needed across the rooms in the property that contain the 
underfloor heating and the cash settlement would need to reflect this. Ms U has also said the 
expert should demonstrate the heating is capable of maintaining suitable room 
temperatures". Id expect this to be considered as part of my existing direction.
Ms U has also gone into detail about the impact of the claim on her, and Amtrusts handling. 
Ive thought about this carefully, and Im satisfied the offer Ive recommended previously of 
£750 accounts for whats happened.
Ms U has requested an itemised cash offer from Amtrust. I would ask it to consider this when 
providing Ms U with its cash offer, albeit I understand there may be limits to the extent it is 
able to break this down and share from a commercial cost perspective.
 
My final decisionI direct Amtrust Europe Limited to:
Arrange for an independent window specialist to investigate all the causes to the 
affected windows that formed the initial claim made in 2014. Based on the inspection 
a new cash settlement will be sent to Ms U.
Amtrust to arrange for a specialised underfloor heating expert to lift some of the floor
in the bedroom to inspect the underfloor heating pipework and insulation. If any
issues are identified with the installation; further investigation will be required across 
the property and a cash offer can be made to Ms U.
Bathroom - Amtrust to send a qualified workman to discuss and obtain quote to
change the control from a thermostat to a single channel clock and make a cash
settlement to Ms U.
Alternative accommodation - Appropriate provision under the alternative
accommodation section of the policy should be used if its found the property is
uninhabitable during these works.
Pay Ms U £750 compensation. Amtrust Europe Limited must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms U accepts my final decision. If it pays 
later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman