DRN-1151474
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, incorrectly marked his account 
as insolvent which led to considerable worry and problems with managing his direct debits. 
What happened
Earlier this summer, Mr P called Halifax to cancel a direct debit on his account. But he was 
told it wasnt possible to do this as there was an insolvency indicator on his account. Mr P 
was confused by this and he explained he wasnt insolvent  so he was advised to speak 
with the insolvency team, but they werent available at the time. Hed asked to speak to a 
manager but spoke to another member of staff.
Worried about the impact of this marker on his finances more generally and as he was due 
to go on holiday, Mr P explained that this wasnt something hed have time to follow up. He 
was also involved in property purchases and worried about those being affected. So a 
complaint was logged and Halifax looked into his concerns. 
Halifax thought the reason for why Mr P couldnt cancel his direct debit might have been that 
it had already been cancelled. But that the member of staff Mr P had spoken to had seen a 
note about insolvency and thought this must be the reason. But further investigation proved 
the note to have been added to the account in error, more than two years prior. Halifax 
agreed theyd done something wrong and offered Mr P £100 to apologise and £12 to cover 
the cost of his phone call. 
But Mr P encountered the same problem again later some weeks later  again being told 
about an insolvency marker on his account. Halifax looked into this and apologised as the 
insolvency indicator hadnt been properly removed. They offered another £125 to apologise 
but Mr P didnt think this was enough. So he referred his concerns to our service where they 
were considered by one of our investigators.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. But while he agreed Halifax had done 
something wrong, he thought their offer amounting to £250 was a fair one. Thats because 
he appreciated the surprise and worry caused  but pointed out that the insolvency indicator 
was an internal note, as opposed to a marker which would appear on Mr Ps credit file, so 
there hadnt been any impact on Mr Ps wider financial position or with any other financial 
businesses. 
Mr P remained unhappy. He felt more compensation was warranted not only because of the 
initial worry, but also the concern he had while on holiday. So the case was passed to me to 
consider. 
 
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that when Mr P first contacted Halifax, he was told some quite troubling news. 
Having not been insolvent, to hear your account has been flagged for that very reason will of 
course have been a worry. And it was only natural for Mr P to be concerned about how this 
might affect his wider financial position  especially with property purchases being planned. 
Halifax apologised and offered compensation and call costs. But the problem arose again 
some weeks later. I can appreciate that this was very unsettling for Mr P as he then lost faith 
in Halifaxs assurances that things had been rectified. 
For his concern, I do agree Mr P is due compensation. Whats important to mention here 
though is that the note on Mr Ps account wasnt a marker that appeared on his credit file  
so it didnt affect any of his other financial affairs. Instead, the note was accidentally added to 
his file, and was available internally only. I dont think we will get to the bottom of why the 
note was added, only that it was done so in error. But from all I have seen, it didnt affect 
Mr Ps credit file and it has now been removed. Halifax have offered £250 in total and I do 
think this is a reasonable sum that recognises the worry and call costs.
Mr P doesnt think £250 is enough. I see that he was on holiday just after the problem first 
arose and that he will have been concerned about the matter. But I see Halifax tried to 
contact him two days after the problem arose and left him a voicemail. So if this was 
something that was spoiling his holiday, he could have got in touch. I appreciate he says he 
wasnt contactable on his phone but I am satisfied there would have been another way to get 
in touch should he have felt the worry affected the enjoyment of his holiday. 
Given everything that I have seen, I am satisfied that the offer of £250 is enough to 
recognise the repeated errors here and the concern that will have flowed from them. So 
while I know Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, I dont direct Halifax, trading as the 
Bank of Scotland, to do any more than they have done.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc should settle this complaint as they have 
already proposed to do, by paying Mr P £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2020.
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman