DRN-3639160
The complaint
Miss M, through her representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Lending, lent to her when she could not afford it and without carrying out proper 
checks. 
What happened
Everyday Lending approved Miss M for one loan in July 2018. It was for £5,000 and with the 
interest it meant that Miss M had to repay £11,854.80. The 36 months of repayments were 
set at just over £329 each. It was repaid in full in October 2021. 
Everyday Lendings view after Miss M had complained was in its final response letter (FRL) 
dated October 2021. In that FRL it said that she earned £1,442 each month after tax, she 
lived with her parents which cost her only £200 a month. It had checked Miss Ms bank 
statements, payslip and her credit file and had checked up about her job. 
It had calculated using its formula that before its intervention her monthly expenditure was 
around £2,040 each month. Our affordability calculation conducted at the time showed she 
had a monthly disposable income of £401.96 after taking into account consolidated loans 
and Everyday Loans monthly repayments.
Miss M referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
adjudicators thought that Everyday Lending ought not to have lent to Miss M. She 
considered that Miss Ms total monthly credit payments represented a significant proportion 
of her income and so there was a significant risk that Miss M wouldnt have been able to 
meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again. 
Miss M agreed with that but Everyday Lending disagreed. It said that Miss M had been living 
at home with her parents and so she was paying little or no board and in its view her 
disposable income  was just under £402 each month. It said that the disposable income 
amount would rise to just under £756 each month if its calculations used for Miss Ms 
general day-to-day living expenses were altered. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending , each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Miss M would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss M would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss M undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending  to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
Everyday Lendings approach to the complaint is relatively simple  it consolidated her debt 
and made it easier to pay off and it had overstated her general living expenses using the 
formula it usually used to calculate living expenses. And it says to us that if her actual day to 
day expenses are considered then Miss M would have been able to afford this loan. 
So, I have reviewed the income and expenditure information I have for Miss M which would 
have been the information Everyday Lending gathered at the time it approved the loan. 
Miss M had told Everyday Lending that she was living at home with parents and so its likely 
that her household expenditure would be lower than many other applicants for loans. But 
that does not mean she had not got into debt. The credit search Everyday Lending carried out gave it this information: Miss M had two live 
loans with a total balance of £1,095, five accounts in the revolving credit category which 
can include credit card accounts  total balance outstanding on those was £3,057. And there 
were records of former and current payday loans. There were no adverse entries such as 
defaults or any insolvencies. Everyday Lending created a debt table which I have duplicated 
in part here:
Type of account Balance Settlement Repayment  all monthly 
save for one that is 
marked*
High cost short term 
loan (HCSTL)£1 £0 £0.01
High cost instalment 
loan  #£700 £1,823 £700 #
HCSTL  # £400 £371.28 £106 #
HCSTL  # £773 £816.09 £188.31 #
HCSTL  # £148 £981.83 £320 #
Credit card type 
facility attached to 
current account£515 £576.34 £15.45*
Credit Card 1 £255 £0 £7.65
Three credit cards Total o/s balance 
£2,287£0 Payments to all three 
£68.61
Loan £322 £324.28 £65
Some were marked Yes on Everyday Lendings records which demonstrates that it planned 
to consolidate those debts. These are marked with a # in the table above.
Everyday Lending had calculated that the usual monthly repayments for the loans she was 
consolidating into one loan with it was £1,330 and I reached a similar figure. And the new 
loan would have been costing Miss M £329 a month. So, the consolidation loan released 
some cash each month but the commitment was for 36 months and put back the debt  it did 
not cure the underlying issue. And Miss M had additional debt on top of the ones she was 
consolidating into the Everyday Lending loan. 
Ive seen no evidence of Everyday Lending paying down those debts directly. The loan 
account record Ive seen (Annual Statement for September 2021) shows that £5,000 was 
advanced to Miss M directly on 16 July 2018. And I have seen a copy of Miss Ms bank 
account statement and the full £5,000 did credit it on that day. I realise that sometimes the 
other lenders will not accept payments from the advancing lender such as Everyday 
Lending. But still theres no evidence Ive seen that it checked what Miss M was going to do 
with the £5,000 or had any procedures in place to ensure that was done.  
The Office of National Statistics data used to calculate Miss Ms living expenses was £354 a 
month on top of the rent she said she paid to her parents. And I can see Everyday Lendings 
perspective that the actual cost each month to Miss M was probably not £554. But still  that 
was its method and in the past it has defended that method as being the correct approach. 
And one element is that by doing it that way it builds in a margin which can be a useful 
element of a creditworthiness assessment. And this may have been important for a 
36 month loan as Miss Ms circumstances may have altered and she does have more 
household expenditure going forward. 
The bank statements Everyday Lending viewed at the time of the loan showed that Miss M had several payday loans, and returned direct debits and the revolving credit facility attached 
to her bank account. And it showed payments to her credit cards. 
Miss Ms total monthly credit repayments, even after the loan consolidation, when including 
her minimum payments to her credit card type accounts represented a significant proportion 
of her income  around 37%. That was around 5% minimum repayments on the credit card 
and credit card type facility which came to around £153 each month. And then she had 
another loan at £65 each month. Plus Miss M would have been paying the Everyday 
Lending loan of £329. So that would have come to around £547 each month which would 
have been around 37% of her income after tax. I consider that a relatively high proportion.
Plus, it cant be ignored that Miss M was required to paydown the capital sums she had 
outstanding on her credit cards (and credit card type facility)  about £3,000, and so that 
would have been more money to pay out as well. Everyday Lending knew of these 
outstanding capital sums to pay off.
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Miss M wouldnt have been able to 
meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its unlikely 
Miss M wouldve been able to sustainably meet her repayments for this loan.
And I do not think that Everyday Lending was sufficiently careful and focussed on ensuring 
that Miss M did paydown the debts for which she was taking this loan otherwise Miss M 
would have been left with debt on top of existing debt. And in any event  the repayments 
were a high percentage of her income and so not sustainable. 
I uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Putting things right
I understand that Miss M has repaid this loan in October 2021.
To put things right I think that Everyday Lending should do as follows: 
add up the total amount of money Miss M received because of having been given all 
the loan. The repayments Miss M made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss M having paid more than she received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
To remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ms credit file relating to this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and I direct that Everyday Lending 
Limited does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 Rachael Williams
Ombudsman