DRN-2405918
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (Direct Line) 
has handled her claim for subsidence.
What happened
In December 2017 Ms B noticed cracks at her home and some movement to a stone pillar 
attached to the bay window of her property. She contacted Direct Line to make a claim.
Direct Line assessed the damage and declined the claim, saying the cracking wasnt 
consistent with subsidence. As the damage got worse, Ms B got in touch with Direct Line 
again later in the year and, following a period of monitoring, the claim was accepted.
Ms B complained to Direct Line about delays in the handling of the claim. She said, among 
other things, that shed had to chase for updates on progress and that Direct Line had failed 
to make the property safe. She also said this had caused her a great deal of stress given 
some health issues she was experiencing at the time. Direct Line said claims of this type can 
take time to investigate  particularly where monitoring is necessary. But it accepted thered 
been some poor service and some delays caused, so it offered Ms B £500 in recognition of 
this.
Ms B wasnt happy with Direct Lines offer, so she referred the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered the issues and thought the complaint should be upheld. Direct Line 
didnt agree with our investigators assessment, so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I agree that the level of 
compensation offered by Direct Line doesnt adequately reflect the trouble and upset that 
has been caused by the delays and poor handling of this claim. Ill explain why.
Ms B initially reported the damage to her property and made the claim for subsidence in 
December 2017. At this time, she was told the damage wasnt caused by subsidence and 
Direct Line declined the claim. This opinion turned out to be incorrect and the claim was 
eventually accepted in August 2018. 
I appreciate Direct Line was acting on the information it had at the time, however given the 
extent of the damage by August 2018, I dont think its likely that the assessment carried out 
in January 2018 was adequate. A proper assessment in January 2018 followed by a period 
of monitoring is, in my opinion, likely to have led to an overall reduction in the time taken to 
deal with the claim and make the property stable. And this in turn wouldve led to a reduction 
in the distress Ms B experienced as a result of this claim.
Ms B instructed an independent surveyor who identified the cause of the movement to be 
shrinkage of the underlying clay soil due to nearby vegetation and said the property needed 
to be underpinned as a matter of urgency. Im persuaded by the surveyors report and Direct 
Line received a copy of this as soon as it was commissioned. 
Although Direct Line then appeared to take the issue of subsidence related damage 
seriously following receipt of the surveyors report, I can see there were still unexplained 
delays in arranging monitoring and in propping up the bay window to make the front of the 
property stable.
These delays caused Ms B considerable trouble and upset. Ive found her testimony 
compelling. She describes having heart surgery in June 2018, following which she was told 
by her doctor to avoid stressful situations and to try not to put too much strain on her body. 
However, the delays in propping up the bay window led to further damage to the front of the 
property, which meant the bay window would need to be entirely rebuilt. The delays and 
gradual deterioration of the damage also affected the front door of the property, which the 
surveyors report confirms would often get jammed, requiring Ms B to apply excessive 
amounts of pressure and strain in order to get into and out of her home. Im also persuaded 
by what shes said about this time being particularly stressful for her and I agree that the 
stress wouldve been exacerbated by the delays in handling the claim. 
Although Direct Line has offered £500 for the trouble and upset caused, I dont think it has 
fully considered Ms Bs circumstances at the time. The delays in properly dealing with this 
claim had a significant impact on Ms Bs health and caused her a great deal of unnecessary 
stress when matters could have and should have been adequately prioritised for a customer 
who had undergone major surgery. So I dont think the current offer is fair and Ive decided 
that Direct Line should increase the amount of compensation it pays Ms B for the poor 
handling of the claim and the delays caused.
Putting things right
Direct Line must pay Ms B an additional £400 compensation in recognition of the trouble and 
upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Direct Line to put things right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman