DRN-2865583
The complaint
Mr B complains about a delay by National Savings and Investments (NS&I) after he made 
deposits to his account using his debit card. 
  
What happened
On 4 and 5 September 2020 Mr B made several payments to his NS&I account using his 
debit card. Mr B has explained he needed the funds for the completion of a property 
purchase on 15 September 2020. But when Mr B tried to withdraw the funds he needed on 7 
September 2020 he found the payments he had made hadnt cleared. It later came to light 
that card payments take up to seven business days to clear into an account. 
Mr B has explained he had to borrow money from a family member to complete the 
purchase of his new property. 
Mr B complained about the delay but NS&I said it had applied the debit card payments in 
line with the account terms. Mr B says that he was told that if hed made the payments over 
the phone, instead of online, he wouldve been told about the timescale for clearing debit 
card payments. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld 
Mr Bs complaint and recommended NS&I pay him £150 for the trouble and upset caused by 
the delay in how long it took the payments to clear. NS&I asked to appeal and said it had 
acted in line with the account terms. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree the account terms say it can take up to seven business days for debit card 
payments to clear. But, I think Mr B makes a reasonable point when he says its unfair to 
expect him to recall a specific section of the account terms that were accepted several years 
earlier. 
Mr B has told us that when discussing his complaint, NS&I advised that if hed made the 
card payments over the phone he wouldve been told about the clearance times. Mr B also 
says he tried to call NS&I but was redirected online instead. Ive looked at NS&Is website 
and was able to find information about how long it takes bank transfers to go clear, but 
couldnt see anything about debit card payments. 
Its clear the timing of these payments was important to Mr B in this case. As the investigator 
has said, the account in question is called Easy Access so I think Mr B could reasonably 
assume his funds would be available without an unexpected delay. I think, in the 
circumstances of Mr Bs case, a reminder of the terms when making the payment wouldve 
meant he was aware of the timescales involved and couldve made other arrangements. 
Mr B has told us he had to borrow money from a family member to complete the purchase. I 
can see how stressful the situation was for Mr B and agree it would be fair for NS&I to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset caused. Having considered everything Mr B has 
told us about the impact of the delay on him, I agree with the investigator that the fairest way 
to resolve this complaint is for NS&I to pay a settlement to acknowledge the trouble and 
upset caused. And I agree that £150 fairly reflects the impact of this situation on Mr B so Im 
going to proceed in line with the investigators findings.  
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct National Savings and Investments to 
pay Mr B £150.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman