DRN-4165678
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  trading as ALPHERA Financial 
Services (Alphera).
What happened
On 3 June 2022 Mr C entered into an agreement with Alphera (brokered by a company that I 
will call E) for a used car he had purchased from a company that I will call C. The car 
was supplied with a free lifetime (limited) warranty from a company that I will call R.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr C undertook to make an 
advance payment of £2,000 followed by 48 monthly payments of £241.47 and an optional 
final payment of £6,323  making a total repayable of £19,913.56 at an APR of 8.9%. As of 
April 2023, Mr C had made all payments required of him under the agreement.
E says that on 8 July 2022 it referred Mr Cs concerns that the car shook when driven over 
60mph to R.
On 2 August 2022 a garage that I will call M1 raised an invoice for an inspection into Mr Cs 
concern that the car shook when driven over 60mph and for the supply and fit of two new 
tyres to remedy that concern  cost £441.56 (paid for by R).
E says that on 11 September 2022 Mr C contacted R to complain about rough driving and 
loss of power and that he was subsequently advised by R (or one of its agents) that a new 
battery was required. E says that R refused to meet the cost of a new battery (on the 
grounds it wasnt covered under its issued warranty), so it paid Mr C £91.80 towards the total 
cost of £183.60 for a new battery as a gesture of goodwill (50%).
On 1 December 2022 M1 raised an invoice for an investigation into Mr Cs concerns about 
the gear change, collision assist, and screen demister, an investigation which uncovered no 
faults  cost £0.
E says that on 8 December 2022 Mr C contacted R to raise concerns about a possible 
calliper fault and R subsequently advised him that he would need to get a diagnostic report.
E says that on 19 January 2023 Mr C contacted C to raise concerns about a possible 
gearbox fault.
On 24 January 2023 Mr C contacted Alphera to complain that three weeks after taking 
delivery of the car he started to experience issues with it.
E says that on 28 January 2023 Mr C contacted C to raise concerns about the car not 
turning over, plastic coming away from the side of the car and a burning smell from one of 
the tyres.
On 31January 2023 a garage that I will call H1 raised an invoice confirming that the car 
might be suffering from a lack of power, but further investigation was needed  cost £27.00.
On 16 February 2022 a garage that I will call M2 raised an invoice for the supply and fit of a 
new oil filter and flange gasket and for an oil change  cost £324.00. 
On 9 March 2023 Mr C contacted Alphera to complain that the rear suspension coil had 
collapsed.
On 9 March 2023 a garage that I will call H2 raised an invoice for a NSR coil spring 
replacement  cost £194.93.
On 13 March 2023 H1 raised an invoice for the supply and fit of a new air and fuel filter and 
for diagnosing the NSR coil spring was broken and needed replacing  cost  £273.48.
On 21 March 2023 and having received no response from Alphera to his complaint(s), Mr C 
complained to our service that he had been supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and that he would like to reject it and be paid compensation. 
On 5 April 2023 Alphera issued Mr C with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL Alphera said it wasnt prepared to accept rejection of the car. In summary it said:
From the information received, I can see that the initial issues with your vehicle have been 
repaired and covered by both [R] and [C], with 50% of the cost of the replacement battery 
covered. 
With regards to the suspension issues, as the fault was first reported 9 months into your 
agreement, we would require diagnostic evidence to confirm that the fault would have been 
present or developing within the first 6 months of your agreement term. 
Without this information, I am not in a position to be able to offer rejection of the vehicle.
On 21 April 203 Mr C contacted our service to say he had experienced further issues with 
the car.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr C didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but Ive seen insufficient evidence to conclude that I should 
uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, and as a result, our service is able to look into complaints about it. The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt, then Alphera, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. The car here was about 
five and a half years old and had already completed a little over 36,000 miles. So, I think 
some wear and tear was to be expected, and that the car wouldnt be fault free, as would 
perhaps be the case with a brand new car.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to fix a fault that is present or 
developing when the car was supplied. In August 2022, shortly after Mr C took delivery of 
the car, R paid for M1 to supply and fit new tyres to remedy what Mr C says was car shake 
at over 60mph. Now based on the evidence that has been provided Im satisfied that this 
repair was successful. Ive certainly not seen anything that would persuade me that this fault 
has reoccurred. 
In September 2022 it appears that that Mr C complained about rough driving and loss of 
power. Now based on the evidence that has been provided Im satisfied that this was simply 
due to the car needing a new battery. Now I accept that it would have been frustrating for 
Mr C to have to get a new battery so soon after taking delivery of the car. But in my view this 
is a serviceable item for which Mr C is liable, not Alphera. Im certainly not persuaded that 
the need for a new battery meant the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied to 
Mr C.
In December 2022 it appears that that Mr C complained about the gear change, collision 
assist, and screen demister. But given an investigation into these concerns by M1 found 
nothing wrong I cant reasonably conclude that Alphera need do anything further in this 
respect.
In December 2022 (more than six months after the car had been supplied) it appears that 
Mr C complained about a possible calliper fault. But in the absence of any documentary 
evidence from Mr C of such a fault and when such a fault might have first been present or 
developing I cant reasonably conclude that Alphera need do anything further in this respect.
In January 2023 (more than six months after the car had been supplied) it appears that Mr C 
complained about a possible gearbox fault. But in the absence of any documentary evidence 
from Mr C of such a fault and when such a fault might have first been present or developing I 
cant reasonably conclude that Alphera need do anything further in this respect.
In January 2023 (more than six months after the car had been supplied) it appears that Mr C 
complained about the car not turning over, plastic coming away from the side of the car and 
a burning smell from one of the tyres. But in the absence of any documentary evidence from 
Mr C of such a fault and when such a fault might have first been present or developing I 
cant reasonably conclude that Alphera need do anything further in this respect.
In January 2023 (more than six months after the car had been supplied) it appears that Mr C 
complained about the car lacking power. But in the absence of documentary evidence from 
Mr C, in addition to the invoice raised by H1, of such a fault and when such a fault might 
have first been present or developing I cant reasonably conclude that Alphera need do 
anything further in this respect.In February 2023 I can see that Mr C paid M2 £324.00 for the supply and fit of a new oil filter 
and flange gasket and for an oil change. But in my view these are serviceable items for 
which Mr C is liable, not Alphera. Im certainly not persuaded that the need for the supply 
and fit of a new oil filter and flange gasket and for an oil change meant the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied to Mr C.
In March 2023 (more than six months after the car had been supplied) it appears that Mr C 
complained about a collapsed rear suspension coil which he paid to have fixed on 
9 March 2023, albeit this fix might not have been successful.
Now Alphera are only responsible for faults that were present or developing on the car when 
it was supplied. That would include problems that suggested the car, or its components, 
hadnt been durable. I dont think its likely the suspension issues were present or developing 
when Mr C took delivery of the car. I say this because:
Mr C was able to drive the car without this issue for 9 months and 8,500 or so miles. I 
think the fault would have presented itself earlier if it had been present or developing 
from the start.
Given the amount of time Mr C had the car before the suspension issues presented 
themselves, I think the onus was on him to demonstrate the problem was present at 
the point of supply. So, I dont think Alphera were unreasonable not to take a more 
proactive approach here.
In March 2023 I can see that Mr C paid H1 £273.48 for the supply and fit of a new air and 
fuel filter and for diagnosing the NSR coil spring was broken and needed replacing. 
Now Ive already addressed the issue over the collapsed rear suspension coil so make no 
further comment here except to say that Mr C, if he hasnt done so already, might want to go 
back to H2 who replaced the rear suspension coil on 9 March 2023. 
Turning to the supply and fit of a new air and fuel filter these are serviceable items for which 
Mr C is liable, not Alphera. Im certainly not persuaded that the need for the supply and fit of 
a new oil filter and flange gasket and for an oil change meant the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality when supplied to Mr C.
Given what I say above I can confirm that Im satisfied that Alphera need take no action in 
respect of this complaint.
Finally, I can see that Mr C contacted our service on 21 April 2023 (after Alphera had issued 
its FRL) to say he had experienced further issues with the car. But if this is the case then this 
is something Mr C needs to raise with Alphera as a new and separate complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman