DRN-2711962
The complaint
Miss Cs complaint is about the refusal of a claim for damage to her laptop under her gadget 
insurance policy sold by Assurant Direct Limited. 
Miss C will see that the name of the financial business has changed slightly (the complaint 
was previously under the insurers name). The name has changed because it is Assurant 
Direct Limited, under a trading name, which is responsible for the sale of the policy. This 
name change does not affect the outcome of this complaint.
What happened
In December 2020, Miss C contacted Assurant to report that she had accidentally damaged 
her laptop. Assurant confirmed the policy covers accidental damage and asked Miss C to 
provide proof of purchase of the laptop in order to progress the claim. When Miss C provided 
the receipt which showed she bought the laptop in February 2018, Assurant told her that the 
laptop wasnt covered as it was more than six months old when she took out the policy. 
Assurant says the policy only covers gadgets purchased within the six months before taking 
out the policy. Miss C took out the policy in July 2020, when the laptop was around 17 
months old. 
Assurant says the policy was applied for on line and the process required Miss C to confirm 
that this item must have been purchased within the last 6 months; and there were also  
exclusions listed on the same screen, including that there is no cover if the gadget is more 
than six months old. Miss C was also required to sign a final declaration which says:
do each of your gadgets meet the following criteria? 
 You have proof of purchase that your first item was purchased in the last 6 
months. 
Assurant says Miss C ticked to confirm this declaration was true when it was not. Assurant 
refused the claim and cancelled the policy. It refunded the premiums Miss C had paid for the 
policy, of £44.81. 
Miss C is unhappy with this. She says she read the terms and conditions of the policy 
carefully to ensure she was covered, and the terms dont say anything about the age of the 
device but only that she must have purchased it new. She says there was no mention of the 
six month requirement until her claim was refused. If there was, she would not have taken 
out the policy. Miss C also told us in January 2021 that Assurant was still taking payments 
for the policy, even though it had said it had processed a refund in December 2020. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He recommended that the complaint be 
upheld and that Assurant reinstate the policy and repair the laptop. The investigator said he 
thought the exclusion relied on should have been provided at the point of sale and in the 
documentation. He said that while the online application process required Miss C to digitally 
sign a declaration about the age of the item she wanted to insure, it didnt make clear what 
would happen if the insured item was more than six months old. The investigator thought it 
was likely Miss C would have taken cover elsewhere, if she had known she was not covered 
under this policy and so Assurant should deal with the claim. 
Assurant does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to 
me. Assurant says it is a customers responsibility to ensure that a device will be covered by 
the policy; theres no regulatory requirement to put eligibility requirements in an Insurance 
Product Information Document or the policy terms and conditions; and Eligibility 
requirements are put in the application process, to ensure we only offer cover to items we 
can insure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Assurant says it does not need to put eligibility criteria in the policy documents, the 
policy covers laptops, with no exclusion in the policy document for laptops over a certain age 
at the start of the policy cover. This exclusion appears in a separate key exclusions 
document but as this is not referenced from the full policy document, it arguably does not 
form part of the contract between Miss C and Assurant. However, even if I accept that it 
does form part of the insurance contract, I have also considered whether it is fair to apply 
this exclusion. 
Those selling insurance policies are required to comply with specific regulations set out in 
the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. The regulations require sellers to make 
reasonable endeavours to prevent a consumer buying a policy under which they cannot 
claim (among other things). There is essentially a rebuttable presumption, in a case such as 
this, that the policy has been mis-sold, as no consumer would knowingly buy a policy they 
would never be able to claim under. There are also several fundamental principles set out in 
the Handbook by which Assurant must also act, including:  treating customers fairly; 
providing information that is clear fair and not misleading and acting with integrity. 
While Assurant is right that there is no specific regulation that says eligibility criteria need to 
be included in the insurance product information documents or the policy terms, I dont think 
it has done enough to fulfil its obligations mentioned above. I do not think Assurant used 
reasonable endeavours to ensure this policy was not purchased by Miss C and I do not think 
it has provided her (or other potential customers) with sufficiently clear fair and not 
misleading information about the eligibility terms. I will explain why.
  
Assurant says the online application process for this policy has not changed since June 
2020 when Miss C bought this policy Miss C says it has recently changed the process but I 
have no real reason to doubt what Assurant has said about this. I have looked at the 
information which would have been presented on screen to Miss C. 
Once the gadget insurance option has been accessed on the insurance website, the 
applicant is taken to a page with a short paragraph which includes the following: 
to help you decide if this policy provides cover that is right for you our Insurance 
Product Information Document is a summary of the main things it will and wont 
cover. 
This contains a link to the insurance product information document. However, although there 
is a section headed are there any restrictions on cover?, this document does not contain 
any reference to the device being insured needing to be less than six months old at the 
policy start date, only that it must have been bought new. The fact that there will be no cover at all for a device that is more than six months old at that 
point, would seem to me to be information which should be in this document. 
There is then a large prominent, highlighted button to click, if you want to proceed. Below the 
button, in smaller bold font, it says: 
Note: This item must have been purchased within the last 6 months.
Assurant says this is hard to miss, however, I do not agree. The sentence is clearly written, 
but its position on the screen means it has a relative lack of prominence compared to the 
button to proceed and the product information document (which the applicant has been told 
contains all the important information about the policy). In my opinion, this means it would in 
practice be easy to overlook. 
Assurant says that on the right-hand side of the same screen, there is also a link to the key 
exclusions document which contains the following information: 
Your first item must be under 6 months old, your second under 12 months and any 
third or more must be under 36 months old, when purchasing the policy. 
This key exclusions document is the third link in a list, preceded by the full policy document 
and the product information document, neither of which mention this eligibility criteria. In 
addition, I do not think it is reasonable to expect a consumer to have to follow a link to a 
further document to find out if they are eligible for cover, especially as they have before that 
been directed to read the product information document which purportedly sets out all the 
important information and which does not mention this. 
Assurant also says Miss C was required to declare that: 
You have proof of purchase that your first item was purchased in the last 6 months and if 
you added a second item, that it was purchased in the last 12 months, which she did. 
This declaration comes towards the end of the sales process, after the price of the cover has 
been given and the consumer has confirmed a couple of times that they want to proceed. 
Again, I do not think it is prominent enough and would be easily missed. 
While we should all read carefully everything that might appear on an online application 
process, we have to be realistic about how people behave in practice. We do not always 
read everything during such a process. This is why eligibility criteria which would render the 
whole policy useless, should be absolutely clear to the consumer at the start of that process. 
I also note that during the online application process, the consumer is asked for the brand, 
model and purchase price of the device to be insured but not the purchase date. If it had 
done so it would have provided an opportunity for Assurant to inform Miss C at that point in 
the application process that she was not eligible for cover. It seems to me Assurant could 
easily have ensured this eligibility requirement was made apparent to Miss C, thereby 
preventing her from buying a policy under which she could never claim. I do not therefore 
think the application process here provided the information sufficiently clearly and Assurant 
did not do enough to fulfil its obligations and the policy was mis-sold.
Having concluded the policy was mis-sold, I have to consider what is required to put this 
right. There are other policies are available which would have covered Miss Cs laptop and 
do not contain the same age restriction. I am therefore satisfied she would not have bought 
this policy if she had known shed never be able to claim under it and that she would have found another policy which would have covered her laptop. Therefore, I consider Assurant 
should deal with the claim, disregarding the eligibility criteria. Miss C has told us she has not 
yet had the laptop repaired; she says it is just about usable but there are lines across the 
screen and the screen needs to be held together. So Assurant should proceed with the 
repair.
Assurant is entitled to the premiums for the policy, as Miss C would have had to pay for the 
insurance regardless, and there would be an excess to pay as well. However, I also consider 
that some compensation is warranted for the trouble this matter has caused Miss C, 
including not being able to use the laptop properly. I consider the additional sum of £150 is 
appropriate and Assurant can offset the premiums (approximately £45) and any policy 
excess (which I understand would be £75) from this amount. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Assurant Direct Limited and require it to:
1. meet Miss Cs claim, subject to the remaining terms of the policy; and 
2. pay a total of £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
mis-sale of this policy. For the avoidance of doubt, Assurant can offset the premiums 
already refunded to Miss C and the policy excess from this amount and will only now 
need to pay Miss C the remaining balance (approximately £30).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman