DRN-4177810
The complaint
Mr M complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) isnt offering him alternative 
ways to authenticate that dont involve a phone signal.
What happened
Mr M owns premium bonds and has done so for many years. He also owns a mobile phone 
and says he has poor signal where he lives.
NS&I says it made changes in July 2022 to the way its customers log into their online 
account in order to implement, amongst other things, strong customer authentication. These 
changes meant that its customers had to enter a six-digit one-time passcode  sent by text 
message or automated call  when they first logged into their account and set up two-factor 
authentication. They also had to do so each time they logged in from a browser that hadnt 
been trusted previously.
Mr M complained to NS&I several times in September and October 2022 saying that he was 
having difficulties completing the two-factor authentication set-up process and logging into 
his account. He said he was struggling to receive one-time passcodes because he had poor 
mobile signal at home and that hed tried trusting his browser but kept on being asked to 
authenticate using a one-time passcode. He said he thought this might be due to the number 
of browsers hed need to trust given how regularly he cleared his cookie and browsing 
history. He also complained about not being able to check whether or not hed won a prize 
and about difficulties hed had changing his details. He said his wife had had to go across 
the road with his mobile and shout the code to him once it had been received.
NS&I looked into Mr Ms complaints but didnt uphold them. NS&I said that he should be able 
to trust up to 15 different browsers and explained what to do if this was a problem. In 
addition, NS&I said that he didnt need to log into his account to check whether or not hed 
won a prize  he could use its prize checker on its website or its prize checker app. Finally, 
NS&I said that he could always phone to change his details if he needed to do so.
Mr M wasnt happy with NS&Is responses and so complained to us. He complained about 
the difficulties hed had setting up two-factor authentication and logging on and the 
difficulties hed had changing his account details. He said he wanted NS&I to come up with a 
way of authenticating that didnt involve a phone signal. He said hed downloaded NS&Is 
app as a temporary measure, but that he didnt like having unnecessary apps on his phone 
as they added to his battery load. Finally, he said that he didnt have a landline  and that he 
uses a VoIP line over Wi-Fi at home if he needs to call anyone.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and said that they didnt think NS&I 
had acted fairly. They recommended that NS&I offer Mr M an alternative way of 
authenticating that didnt rely on sending text messages or making a call to a landline and 
pay him £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. NS&I 
didnt agree with our investigators recommendations. They said that Mr M was logging in 
successfully the majority of times, that it had offered him several different ways to check 
whether or not hed won a prize and that he could change his details over the phone. NS&I 
asked for Mr Ms complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, I looked into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Last month I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to not uphold this 
complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
NS&I has told us that it made changes in July 2022 to the way its customers log into 
their online account. NS&I has told us that its customers now need to enter a six-digit 
one-time passcode  which are sent by text message or an automated call  when 
they first log into their account and each time they log in from a different browser.
NS&I has told us that it made these changes in order to implement new regulations 
that came into effect in September 2019  namely the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs). These regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) to 
apply strong customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances 
are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication 
where a payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an 
account information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a 
risk of payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication 
for online banking and gave the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement 
strong customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry 
includes card issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, 
nothing to stop firms bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if 
they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as PSD2  define strong customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are 
independent, in that the breach of one element does not compromise the 
reliability of any other element, and designed in such a way as to protect the 
confidentiality of the authentication data, with the elements falling into two or 
more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic 
payment is permitted to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question 
using factors based on knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at 
least two independent factors when doing so. They cant, for example, check using 
only knowledge based factors, but they can check using one or more knowledge 
based factors and one or more possession based factors. The changes that NS&I 
made to its processes  and its reliance on a phone signal according to Mr M as a 
way of authenticating  are at the heart of this complaint.
NS&Is approach to implementing strong customer authentication
NS&I has said that it made changes to its processes in order to implement strong 
customer authentication  and that the changes were important measures designed 
to combat fraud. In addition, NS&I has said that its provided several alternative ways 
of authenticating, and that Mr M can, in any event, check if hes won a prize without 
having to log onto his account and can phone to change his details too. And finally 
NS&I has said that Mr M has been able to log in successfully the majority of times, 
possibly having moved around in his house to find a better mobile signal, and that 
this shouldnt cause him real difficulties.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its 
expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about 
strong customer authentication and its expectations, and it has written to firms about 
this too. In a paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic 
Money  Our Approach  the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment 
services and e-money related rules in its Handbook. The FCA said the paper 
provides guidance for a practical understanding of the requirements, our regulatory 
approach and how businesses will experience regulatory supervision. The FCA 
added that its guidance is intended to illustrate ways (but not the only ways) in which 
a person can comply with the relevant regulations and rules.
In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary 
for a PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of 
authentication, to comply with their obligation to apply strong customer 
authentication in line with regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not 
all payment service users will possess a mobile phone or smart phone and 
payments may be made in areas without mobile phone reception. PSPs must 
provide a viable means to strongly authenticate customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that 
businesses shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers 
and should provide viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA 
has, in my opinion, also made it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes 
people in areas with limited mobile reception. The FCA has talked, for example, 
about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication on 
different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged 
or located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the 
need for firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all 
groups of consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different authentication methods for your customers.
Ive spoken to Mr M before issuing this provisional decision and Ive said that Id 
probably agree with what our investigator has said  particularly in light of the 
guidance the FCA has issued  if hed been complaining about a current account. 
But hes not complaining about a current account. Hes complaining about premium 
bonds. Thats something  along with the regulations and guidance, amongst other 
things  that I have to take into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Should NS&I have done more for Mr M when he originally complained?
Mr C has told us that he owns a mobile phone but has poor mobile reception in his 
house. So, Ive taken the papers the FCA has published on strong customer 
authentication and its thoughts  particularly in relation to people who live in an area 
without mobile reception  when deciding whether or not NS&I should have done 
more when Mr M originally complained and whether or not its actions were fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In addition, Ive taken the Payment Services 
Regulations  in particular, Article 100  into account as well as FCA Principle 6  
that firms must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive also taken into account the nature of the account Mr M is complaining about and 
what he wants to be able to do as well as how often.
my provisional thoughts
Having taken everything into account, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of 
NS&I to make changes to its processes in light of strong customer authentication  
its an important measure to help combat fraud. I agree with Mr M that NS&I could 
offer alternative ways for customers to authenticate that dont involve a phone signal, 
but I dont think I can say NS&I has acted unfairly and unreasonably in this case 
given that there are a number of other ways in which Mr M can check whether hes 
won a prize or change his details that dont rely on him having a mobile signal or a 
landline. In the circumstances, I dont agree that this is a complaint that should be 
upheld.
Both parties were invited to reply to my provisional decision, but only Mr M did. He said he 
was disappointed with my provisional decision as he doesnt feel anyone should be forced to 
use a mobile phone for anything if they dont have one or cant use one. He also said this 
account wasnt like a bank account where he could switch to another provider as theres no 
alternative to premium bonds. And he also said that his complaint wasnt just about being 
able to check winnings but also updating his details. I agree with a lot of what Mr M has said. 
What I have to decide, however, is whether or not NS&I has acted unfairly.
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Ms complaint was not only about being able to 
check whether or not hed won a prize, but also about being able to change his details. Its 
clear from the conversation that we had  and the file  that Mr M has needed to change his 
details over the last year or so, but its also clear that this isnt a regular occurrence. The 
more important factor for me was that there are a number of ways in which Mr M can check 
whether hes won a prize or change his details that dont rely on him having a mobile signal 
or a landline. And I didnt think that NS&I had acted unfairly in the circumstances. I remain of 
that view. I, therefore, remain of the view that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman