DRN-2643012
The complaint
Mr C complains about the outstanding debt on his account with Secure Trust Bank plc, 
trading as Moneyway, relating to a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement. Mr Cs mother is helping him with his complaint.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase agreement with Moneyway that he 
signed in July 2011. He didnt make all of the payments under the agreement so a default 
notice was issued to him in March 2013. The car was then repossessed in July 2013 and 
was sold at auction  the proceeds of sale of £4,500 were credited to his account but there 
was an outstanding balance of £5,841.40.
The debt of £5,841.40 was sold to a third party in May 2014. Mr C says that he was 
contacted by a debt collection agency about the debt in January 2019 and he complained to 
Moneyway in August 2019. It said that the outstanding balance was correct and it was 
unable to agree that it had acted inappropriately.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service in January 2020. I 
issued a jurisdiction on this complaint to Mr C and to Moneyway in January 2021 in which I 
said: 
I consider that this service does have the legal power to consider Mr Cs complaint 
to the extent that it relates to what Mr C says he was told by Moneyway about the 
amount received from the auction of the car clearing his outstanding debt and any 
actions that have been taken by or on behalf of Moneyway within the six years 
preceding the date of Mr Cs complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered those parts of Mr Cs complaint but he didnt recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr C was told about the outstanding debt and 
he didnt believe that Moneyway needed to do anything more regarding the areas of Mr Cs 
complaint that this service is able to investigate. Mr C has asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman and hes explained why he doesnt feel that hes been treated 
fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C didnt make all of the payments that were due under the agreement and he was 
sent a default notice in March 2013 and the car was repossessed in July 2013;
the car was then sold at auction and Mr C says that he was told that that the amount 
received from the auction of the car would clear his outstanding debt - but I dont 
consider it to be likely that Moneyway would have told him that;
the outstanding balance of Mr Cs account when the car was repossessed was 
£10,035.56 and the price of the car when it had been supplied to him two years 
earlier was £10,359.58  so I consider that he would have known, or ought 
reasonably to have known, that it was highly unlikely that the sale proceeds would 
clear the balance on his account;
Moneyway has provided evidence to show that the outstanding balance of his 
account after the sale proceeds of £4,500 had been applied was £5,841.40;
Moneyways account notes show that account statements were sent to Mr C in June 
2013 and June 2014 but theres no reference in those notes to any collection activity 
being undertaken;
the account notes show that Mr Cs debt of £5,841.40 was sold to a third party in May 
2014;
although I consider that it would be reasonable to expect Moneyway to have 
contacted Mr C about the debt between July 2013 and May 2014, it had already sent 
him a default notice and repossessed his car, and Im not persuaded that it was 
required to contact him about his outstanding debt;
the third partys contact notes show that it sent a letter to Mr C in May 2014 about his 
debt being transferred to it and those contact notes also show that it has regularly 
sent letters and account statements to Mr C and that it has tried to contact him by 
phone;
Mr C clearly received the letter that it sent to him about his outstanding debt in 
January 2019 and I consider it to more likely than not that Mr C would also have 
received at least some of the communications that were sent to him by the third party 
so he would have known that he had an outstanding debt; and
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Moneyway has acted 
incorrectly in its dealings with Mr C and I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to arrange for the third party to reduce or waive his debt, to pay him 
any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman