DRN-3146559
The complaint
Mr F and Miss W complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined their claim 
against their travel insurance policy following curtailment of their trip. Reference to URV 
includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 19 February 2020, Mr F and Miss W bought a single trip,  
explorer, backpacker travel insurance policy, master policy number RTBEX40039. They 
planned a trip with intended departure and return dates of 24 February 2020 and            
7 June 2020 respectively. The policy started and ended on those dates. I understand 
that they booked their flights and accommodation separately. 
On 23 March 2020, whilst Mr F and Miss W were on their trip, the Foreign 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO, formerly the FCO) advised all UK 
tourists to return home. That advice remained in place for the remainder of Mr F and 
Miss Ws planned trip. Mr F and Miss W also say that the government of the country they 
were in advised foreign tourists to return home. 
 
Mr F and Miss W curtailed their trip following the FCDO advice and returned to the UK 
on 31 March 2020. They claimed against their policy in relation to the additional cost of 
their early return flights. URV declined their claim. It said that what happened here isnt  
covered by the policy. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that whilst what 
happened here wasnt one of the insured events under the policy, in the particular 
circumstances, it was fair and reasonable for URV to deal with the claim under the 
curtailment section of the policy. 
The investigator said that was because an exclusion in the policy meant that if Mr F and 
Miss W had remained abroad, they would have been doing so against FCDO advice and 
would have had no cover under the policy. He said that Mr F and Miss W werent  
covered if they followed FCDO advice and curtailed their trip but also werent covered if 
they remained abroad. The investigator didnt think that the exclusion had been brought 
to Mr F and Miss Ws attention and that the combined effect of the policy wasnt clear to 
them. The investigator didnt think that Mr F and Miss W would have bought the policy if 
theyd realised that there would be no cover if FCDO advice changed. 
URV didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman consider the 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain 
things  including excluded risks. 
The IPID
At the top of the IPID it says:
The following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of the contract 
which can be found in your policy documentation. []
Under the heading, What is insured? it says:
The policy covers up to the following
[]
If you need to come home early  £1,000
On page 2 of the IPID, under the heading, Where am I covered? it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region when the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all or all but essential travel. []
The Policy Terms and Conditions
Page 8 of the policy terms and conditions says:
What is not covered  applicable to all sections of the policy
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from:
[]
14. Travelling against FCO advice
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from which you are 
travelling has advised against all, or all but essential travel.
[]
Section B of the policy, on page 14, sets out the cover available for curtailment. Curtailment 
cover applies if the insured have to return home early for one of a specified number of 
reasons, none of which apply here. 
The terms say that the policy doesnt cover anything mentioned in What is not covered, the 
relevant part of which Ive set out above. Has Mr F and Miss Ws claim been declined unfairly?
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the curtailment 
section of the policy because: 
Mr F and Miss W curtailed their trip because the FCDO advised UK tourists to 
return home. Thats not something thats covered under the terms and conditions of 
the policy, as its not a specific or listed insured event. However, taking into account 
the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain. 
If Mr F and Miss W had remained abroad after the change in the FCDO advice on 
23 March 2020, they would have done so against that advice. URV said that if Mr F 
and Miss W had remained abroad and submitted a claim for something that 
happened after 23 March 2020, it wouldnt have declined the claim. This service 
asked URV about this and gave it an opportunity to demonstrate - with underwriting 
guidance and/or claims data  - that it covered consumers who chose to stay abroad. 
But it hasnt done so. And Ive not seen any other persuasive evidence that URV 
would have covered Mr F and Miss W as it said it would. Based on what Ive seen, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr F and Miss W wouldnt have been covered by 
the policy terms and conditions if they had remained abroad after 23 March 2020. 
Mr F and Miss W would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in 
order to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And I dont think 
that this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent 
way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently 
clear. 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr F and 
Miss W and URV. I think its unlikely that Mr F and Miss W would have purchased 
the policy if they had realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO 
guidance changed whilst they were abroad.  
Putting things right
Im directing URV to treat the claim as covered under the curtailment section of the policy. 
URV should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold Mr F and Miss Ws complaint. I now direct Union 
Reiseversicherung AG to take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman