DRN-3755549
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) 
has treated her while shes been experiencing financial difficulties with her mortgage, and 
about how it has calculated her monthly payments. 
Although this is a buy to let mortgage, Miss B has been living in the property for some years.
What happened
Miss B has a buy to let mortgage with BM. This was once part of a wider property portfolio, 
but following a series of unfortunate events and personal difficulties, Miss B was declared 
bankrupt some years ago and most of her properties  including her then home  were sold 
or repossessed. With the consent of the trustee, Miss B retained this property and has lived 
in it in recent years, though it continues to be a buy to let mortgage.
As a result of health difficulties Miss B is unable to work and is in receipt of benefits, 
including Support for Mortgage Interest (SMI) which contributes to her mortgage payments. 
Although shes made occasional one-off payments, in general Miss B has been unable to 
pay anything to the mortgage herself in recent years. 
When the mortgage was taken out in 2008, Miss B borrowed £130,687 over 20 years on 
interest only terms. It was on an initial fixed rate of 5.75% until 2010, and then moved to a 
tracker rate, tracking the Bank of England base rate with a margin of 2% (that is, the interest 
rate would always be 2% above base rate) until the end of the term.
Unfortunately Miss B has had payment difficulties over the years. And shes also 
experienced wider financial difficulties, for the reasons Ive said. As a result shes been 
unable to pay the ground rent on the property, and so the freeholder has contacted BM  
which has paid the ground rent on her behalf several times, adding the payments to the 
mortgage balance. This means that that the mortgage balance is now significantly higher 
than it was at the start  at the time of the events which first triggered this complaint, in 
September 2021, the balance was just under £160,000.
BM has kept the original amount borrowed on interest only terms. But the remainder of the 
balance, above the original borrowing, has been put on repayment terms. 
Miss B is very unhappy with how BM has managed her mortgage, and she believes it hasnt 
treated her fairly. She doesnt think its fair that BM has put part of the mortgage on 
repayment terms, which has increased the amount she has to pay each month, and 
therefore the amount by which shes in arrears. She believes that BM has wrongly 
capitalised arrears without her consent, which is unfair and against the regulators rules, and 
this is the extra amount shes being asked to pay. Miss B wants the whole mortgage put on 
interest only terms. She believes that this would mean that her SMI payments would 
increase and the monthly payments would reduce, meaning that the mortgage would 
become more affordable. And she says that BM hasnt taken account of her vulnerabilities 
and not treated her fairly or sympathetically.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of all the difficulties Miss B has experienced over the years. I havent 
gone into details as our decisions are published  in anonymised form  but these include 
bereavements, serious health concerns following accidents and illnesses, and having 
survived abusive relationships. Ive taken into account everything that shes said about that, 
and Ive also borne in mind the regulators guidance both for mortgages in general, and for 
the treatment of vulnerable customers.
With all that in mind, Ive looked very carefully at how BM has managed her mortgage. 
Having done so, Ive not seen any evidence that its treated her unfairly. I appreciate that 
wont be the answer Miss B is looking for, but I hope my explanation helps her understand 
why Ive reached that conclusion.
Is this a regulated residential mortgage, or a buy to let mortgage?
Miss B told our investigator that this was originally a regulated residential mortgage, which 
BM later changed to buy to let. She said this because she had a letter from the propertys 
freeholder which said she was sub-letting against the terms of her lease  so BM must have 
changed the mortgage to allow letting later.
Im afraid I dont agree with Miss B about that. This is a buy to let mortgage. It was taken out 
as a buy to let mortgage in 2008, and has remained a buy to let mortgage ever since. 
The letter from the freeholder, sent in 2013, is not proof that this was a residential mortgage 
 then, or at any other point.
The freeholders letter is sent to her as leaseholder, and says that it believes she is letting 
the property out. As she herself is leasing the property from the freeholder, and then in turn 
letting it to a tenant, she is sub-letting  granting a lease when she herself is a leaseholder. 
The freeholder says that this is a breach of her lease, which does not allow her to grant 
tenancies or rent the property out. 
This is nothing to do with the mortgage; its about the agreement between Miss B and the 
freeholder covering the terms on which her own lease was granted.
If anything, this is evidence that the mortgage has always been buy to let  since it shows 
that Miss B was letting the property to tenants in 2013, as would be intended with a buy to let 
mortgage.
As a buy to let, this is an unregulated mortgage. Even though Miss B is now living in the 
property, its still formally an unregulated buy to let mortgage.  
Was the balance correct when BM wrote to Miss B in September and December 2021?
In September 2021, BM changed its systems. It wrote to customers  including Miss B  to 
notify them of the change. It told Miss B that it had worked out her monthly payment again, 
and was changing the monthly payment to £462.54, an increase of £1.68 per month. It said 
the monthly payment did not include arrears, which at that time were around £11,500. BM 
said that her account was made up of three sub-accounts:
Sub-account 1, on repayment terms, with a balance of £28,519.91 and a monthly payment of £233.54;
Sub-account 2, on interest only terms, with a balance of £130,893.14 and a monthly 
payment of £228.66; 
Sub-account 3, on repayment terms, with a balance of £26.20 and a monthly 
payment of £0.34.
The interest rate on sub-accounts 1 and 2 was 2.1%, and no interest was charged on sub-
account 3. The mortgage is on a lifetime tracker rate which tracks at 2% above the Bank of 
England base rate, which at the time was 0.1%.
BM explained that because of the change of systems, it had changed how it calculated 
interest. On the old system, it had calculated interest from one payment due date to the next. 
But on the new system, it calculated interest each calendar month. That meant that there 
was a small amount of interest  in the gap between a payment due date and the start of the 
next month  which had been calculated by the old system but not collected by the new one. 
This was the small balance placed in sub-account 3. 
In December 2021, BM said that it had mis-calculated the balance and the monthly payment 
slightly - £22.56 was placed on sub-account 1 rather than sub-account 2. This was 
corrected, and reduced the monthly payment by £0.74.
Other than that small correction, Ive seen no evidence that BM has mis-calculated the 
balance. But Ill consider Miss Bs argument that nevertheless how BM has arrived at the 
balance is not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Has BM capitalised arrears, contrary to the regulators guidance?
Ive started by considering whether the balance is correct. Ive seen no evidence that BM 
has mis-calculated the balance  other than by a small amount when it changed systems in 
2021, which Ive dealt with above.
Miss Bs mortgage balance is higher now than it was when the mortgage was taken out. I 
dont agree that this is because BM has wrongly capitalised arrears, or wrongly included 
arrears in the monthly payment, though. Ive looked carefully at what Miss B has said about 
that, and Ive also carefully considered the regulators guidance on auto-capitalisation. And 
Im satisfied that this is not what has happened to Miss Bs mortgage.
As at September 2021, Miss Bs mortgage balance was made up of £130,893 on interest 
only terms and £28,519 on repayment terms. 
Miss B says this isnt fair. She says that the extra £28,519 is capitalised arrears  which 
should not be included in the mortgage balance, or the calculation of the monthly payment, 
at all. And secondly that in any case since this is an interest only mortgage even if arrears 
were capitalised they should be on interest only terms not repayment terms.
Im afraid that this isnt correct. The £28,519 is not arrears. Arrears has a specific meaning  
it means contractual monthly payments Miss B has missed. And while Miss B has missed 
monthly payments (or payments have not been made in full), BM continues to treat those 
missed payments separately.
So when BM wrote to Miss B in September 2021 to tell her what her mortgage balance was, 
it said her account was made up of three sub-accounts:Sub-account 1, on repayment terms, with a balance of £28,519.91 and a monthly 
payment of £233.54;
Sub-account 2, on interest only terms, with a balance of £130,893.14 and a monthly 
payment of £228.66; 
Sub-account 3, on repayment terms, with a balance of £26.20 and a monthly 
payment of £0.34.
And it said in that letter that the sub-accounts and the monthly payments didnt include the 
separate arrears balance, which at that time was £11,477.74.
Im satisfied this is correct. Up to September 2021, Miss B had missed around £11,500 of 
payments which she hadnt made up. This was her arrears balance.
That £11,500 was not included in the main mortgage balance, on either sub-account 1 or 
sub-account 2. 
Sub-account 2 was the original borrowing. As the borrowing was on interest only terms, the 
balance had not reduced in the years since 2008.
Sub-account 1 was additional amounts added to the mortgage over the years, from a 
number of different sources. These include: 
Arrears fees  administration fees charged by BM in months where Miss B has 
missed a payment (though some of these were refunded in 2018, so would not have 
been on the balance by 2021).
Payments made on Miss Bs behalf  in particular, payments of ground rent to Miss 
Bs freeholder.
Additional interest charged.
Where payments are missed, its reasonable that BM charges an arrears fee where it has to 
do additional work in connection with the missed payment  such as trying to get in touch 
with Miss B and understand why the payment was missed and whether she can make it up.
It's also reasonable for BM to pay ground rent on Miss Bs behalf and add it to the mortgage 
balance. Where Miss B doesnt pay the ground rent herself, the freeholder of her property 
can forfeit her lease  which would mean Miss B loses the property, and BM loses its 
security for the borrowing. To prevent that happening, it can make payment on Miss Bs 
behalf and then recover it from her via the mortgage. And once the payment is added to the 
balance, its also reasonable for BM to charge interest on it until Miss B repays it. 
That leaves the third factor  additional interest. With an interest only mortgage like this one, 
BM charges interest daily and adds it to the balance each month. Miss B is then asked to 
pay the monthly payment, which is the same amount as the interest charged. And so if she 
makes the payment, the balance stays the same  and therefore the same amount of 
interest is chargeable the next month.
But where Miss B doesnt make a payment, the interest for the month is added to the 
balance but not then taken off again with the payment. This means the balance goes up. 
And next month, because the balance is higher, so is the amount of interest charged. At the 
same time, the missed payment is recorded as arrears, since Miss B has an ongoing 
obligation to make those payments even if they are late. The increased balance is not the same as the arrears, and even if Miss B later clears the arrears in full the balance would still 
be higher because of the extra interest charged in the meantime.
This means that when Miss B hasnt been making payments, or hasnt made them in full, her 
balance has increased because of the unpaid interest and because of extra interest charged 
on the higher balance. 
This is not the same as automatic capitalisation of arrears. Miss Bs arrears werent 
capitalised and remained outstanding. But because of the arrears, the mortgage balance 
had also gone up while the arrears remained outstanding. BM requires Miss B to repay 
interest on the increased balance as part of the ongoing monthly payment  including the 
additional interest charged  and separately to repay the arrears (the past missed 
payments).
The monthly payment was not increased to recover the arrears  which is what capitalisation 
means. It was increased to reflect the fact that more interest was being charged now the 
balance was higher. This is not therefore against the regulators guidance, and does not 
amount to automatic capitalisation. Miss Bs arrears have not been capitalised and are not 
included in her mortgage balance.
It's worth noting that in any case the guidance Miss B has referred to doesnt apply in this 
case  since it only applies to regulated residential mortgages. This is not a regulated 
residential mortgage, its an unregulated buy to let mortgage (even though Miss B is living in 
the property). So even if BM had automatically capitalised her arrears  which it hasnt  it 
wouldnt be obliged to follow the remediation guidance. Though it would be something I 
could take into account as representing good industry practice. 
The guidance also applies to repayment mortgages rather than interest only mortgages. 
With repayment mortgages, the borrower repays part of the capital as well as interest each 
month. When a payment is missed  when arrears arise  then not only does the interest 
charged go unpaid (and attract more interest), so does the capital. These missed capital 
payments can then be caught up in one of two ways. Either the borrower pays the missed 
capital repayments separately (repaying the arrears), or the mortgage is re-scheduled so 
that the remaining capital is repaid over the term as part of future monthly payments 
(capitalisation of arrears). 
While interest only mortgage arrears can be capitalised too, the regulators remediation 
guidance was aimed at situations where lenders increased the monthly payments on capital 
repayment mortgages to ensure the capital was paid back in full over the remaining term. 
Thats another reason why it doesnt apply to Miss Bs mortgage, which is largely on interest 
only terms. 
Im therefore satisfied that BM has acted fairly here. It has not capitalised Miss Bs arrears; it 
always has treated missed payments as arrears and continues to do so, it does not include 
them in the contractual monthly payment, and it expects Miss B to make up the arrears 
separately if she can in addition to the contractual monthly payment. Where it has adjusted 
the monthly payment, it has done so to reflect changes in the interest rate, and to reflect the 
fact that missed payments result in more interest being incurred and therefore needing to be 
paid each month. It has not done so to collect past missed payments. 
Sub-account 1 is not made up of capitalised arrears, it is primarily made up of payments 
made on Miss Bs behalf, interest charged on those payments, and additional interest 
charged as a result of payments missed by Miss B. 
Has Miss B missed payments even though shes been claiming SMI?In recent years, Miss B has experienced financial difficulty. Shes been claiming SMI but not 
generally making additional payments herself.
SMI is government support for mortgage borrowers, paid as a benefit until 2018 and as a 
loan thereafter.
There are particular rules around what SMI is, how it operates and how much is paid. Miss 
Bs mortgage balance is low enough to qualify for SMI support in full. BM says that the 
amount above the original borrowing doesnt qualify for SMI because only the original 
mortgage balance and borrowing for essential repairs is covered. But I dont think its right 
about that  thats the case for SMI recipients on legacy benefits and pension credits. But for 
recipients in receipt of Universal Credit, such as Miss B, SMI covers the whole of a loan 
secured on the home (subject to the maximum balance limit).
However, SMI only covers mortgage interest. It doesnt cover capital repayments, even 
where a mortgage is wholly or partly on repayment terms.
In addition, SMI is not paid at the recipients mortgage interest rate  its paid at a standard 
interest rate for all recipients, set centrally by the government. If as a result more is paid in 
SMI than is charged in interest by a lender, the extra can be used to reduce the mortgage 
balance. But if less is paid in SMI than is charged by the lender, then the mortgage 
payments arent met in full and if the recipient doesnt pay the extra, the difference is 
counted as arrears.
The standard rate was 2.61% until April 2021, when the government reduced it to 2.09%. 
Comparing that to the interest rate on Miss Bs mortgage, which tracks Bank of England 
base rate plus 2%:
Date* SMI payment 
interest rateBank of England 
base rateMiss Bs 
mortgage 
interest rateDifference 
between SMI 
and Miss Bs 
interest rate
April 2018 2.61% 0.5% 2.5% 0.11%
September 2018 2.61% 0.75% 2.75% - 0.14%
April 2020 2.61% 0.1% 2.1% 0.51%
April 2021 2.09% 0.1% 2.1% 0.01%
January 2022 2.09% 0.25% 2.25% - 0.16%
March 2022 2.09% 0.5% 2.5% - 0.41%
April 2022 2.09% 0.75% 2.75% - 0.66%
June 2022 2.09% 1.00% 3.00% - 0.91%
July 2022 2.09% 1.25% 3.25% - 1.16%
September 2022 2.09% 1.75% 3.75% - 1.66%
October 2022 2.09% 2.25% 4.25% - 2.16%December 2022 2.09% 3.00% 5.00% - 2.91%
* The month following a base rate change, as Miss Bs mortgage offer says that her interest rate will increase on 
the first day of the month following a change to base rate
As can be seen from the above table, SMI has only paid enough to cover the interest on 
Miss Bs mortgage up to September 2018, and then again between April 2020 and January 
2022. At all other times, the SMI rate has been less than Miss Bs mortgage interest rate  
and therefore SMI payments would not have covered the interest charged on Miss Bs 
mortgage even if it was fully on interest only terms. 
Indeed, by July 2022, the monthly payment on the interest only element of Miss Bs 
mortgage had increased from £228 to £413  while the amount of SMI being paid was still 
only £262. 
So there are two reasons why the amount Miss B receives in SMI each month is less than 
the amount of her contractual monthly payment  and why, when she doesnt make up the 
difference herself, the mortgage falls further into arrears:
Other than for part of 2018, and between April 2020 and January 2022, the SMI 
interest rate was less than the mortgage interest rate. This means that SMI did not 
cover the full amount of interest charged to Miss Bs mortgage. This is not because of 
any error or unfair act on BMs part. It has applied the mortgage interest rate fairly 
and in line with the mortgage offer (and, in fact, a rate that tracks 2% above base rate 
is a relatively low interest rate in the mortgage market). Rather, it is government 
policy which has set the amount to be paid by SMI at 2.09% instead of the actual 
interest charged.
SMI only covers mortgage interest, not capital. Part of Miss Bs monthly repayment 
includes the capital part of the repayments to sub-account 2  this is not eligible for 
SMI.
Im therefore satisfied that BM has correctly applied the SMI received to Miss Bs mortgage. 
And where, each month, the SMI receipts are not enough to cover the payments due, the 
shortfall is  fairly  treated as arrears (payments Miss B is obliged to make and has not 
made) and added to the arrears balance unless Miss B makes up the difference herself. 
Its fair and reasonable for BM to continue to charge the contractual interest rate, even 
though thats more than the SMI interest rate. Thats what the terms and conditions allow for, 
a lifetime tracker rate of 2% over base rate is a competitive rate and not unfair of itself, and 
decisions as to what rate SMI is paid at are a matter for government not BM.
As to whether its fair and reasonable that sub-account 2 is on repayment terms, thats what 
Ill consider next.
Is it fair sub-account 1 is on repayment terms?
When Miss B took the mortgage out in 2008, BM sent her a mortgage offer and the 
mortgage terms and conditions. 
The mortgage offer says:
For the agreed term of the loan we will accept payments of interest only, although 
any additional charges (for example, fees for additional services) will need to be paid 
in addition as and when they fall dueWhere your mortgage is set up on an interest only basis, and at any time the capital 
amount owed to us exceeds the total amount of the loan initially advanced to you, 
(the Initial Loan Amount), then the excess of the capital amount owed to us over 
and above the Initial Loan Amount (the Conversion Amount) will with effect from the 
date that the Conversion Amount arises (the Conversion Date) be converted to a 
repayment basis (so that both capital and interest will be repaid monthly on the 
Conversion Amount).
This means that BM has operated the mortgage in line with the conditions in the mortgage 
offer. As Ive explained above, sub-account 2 is the original borrowing, and sub-account 1 
represents the amount by which the balance has increased above the amount Miss B 
originally borrowed  mainly through ground rent paid on her behalf, and through additional 
interest charged on those payments and resulting from missed payments Miss B has not 
made. 
Im therefore satisfied that BM is contractually entitled to put sub-account 1 on repayment, 
not interest only, terms. But Ive also thought about whether doing so was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  and whether it remains fair and reasonable now, or 
whether BM should convert sub-account 1 from repayment to interest only terms, as Miss B 
wants it to do.
Miss B says that sub-account 1 should be converted to interest only because that will reduce 
her contractual monthly payments and bring them closer to the level covered by her SMI 
payments. In turn, this will reduce her arrears and potentially allow her to start reducing the 
arrears. This will improve her credit file and make it easier for her to re-mortgage at the end 
of the term in six years, if not before.
Ive taken that into account. But on balance, and after careful consideration, Im not 
persuaded that BM ought fairly to have put sub-account 1 on repayment terms, or that it 
should do so now.
Putting the additional balance on interest only terms might have reduced the monthly 
payments  but would also mean that it would still be outstanding at the end of the term. 
Miss B has told us that she has no means of repaying the capital. While she says shes 
prepared to sell the property if she has to, that would leave her with nowhere to live. Based 
on the estimate of the propertys value she has given us, she has little equity in the property. 
And as her SMI is a loan, not a benefit, it will also have to be repaid to the government on 
sale of the property (plus interest). So increasing the balance at the end of the term means 
that Miss B will be left with less equity with which to move on  and a higher loan to value, 
making it harder for her to re-mortgage even if doing so was affordable.
I dont therefore think it was unfair for BM to treat the additional balance as being on 
repayment terms. The mortgage offer said thats what it would do. And doing so reduced the 
amount of capital Miss B would have to find at the end of the term.
In fact, however, Miss B hasnt been able to make the repayments and reduce the balance. 
So Ive also thought about whether it would be fair to ask BM to convert sub-account 1 to 
interest only terms now, as a form of forbearance.
But again, I dont think it would. Ive said this is not a regulated mortgage, and the rules of 
mortgage regulation dont strictly apply. But nonetheless Ive taken them into account, given 
that Miss B is actually living in the property, as representing good practice in handling 
mortgages on residential property.
Contractually, this part of Miss Bs mortgage is on repayment terms. The regulators rules (at MCOB 11.6.41 R) say that switching a repayment mortgage to interest only is only permitted 
if there is a clear repayment strategy in place at the end of the term  which is not the case 
here. MCOB 11.6.43 R and MCOB 13.3.4A R (1) (b) allow a temporary change to interest 
only for reasons of forbearance. But a permanent switch can only be done where there is a 
credible repayment strategy  or, if theres not, where making the change would otherwise 
be in the borrowers best interests taking into account MCOB 11.7.3 R.
In this case, Im not persuaded that a permanent switch to interest only for this part of the 
mortgage account is in Miss Bs best interests, or a reasonable form of forbearance BM 
should be expected to offer. 
It increases the capital balance Miss B will have to find at the end of the term. And it does 
not solve the immediate problem  as at July 2022, BM told our investigator that if the whole 
mortgage was on interest only terms the monthly payment would be around £512 (this will 
have increased since then following further increases in Bank of England base rate). As only 
£263 was being received in SMI each month, this would leave a shortfall of £249 that Miss B 
would have to make up herself. 
But Miss B told our investigator in August 2022 that her income was £790 per month, and 
her expenditure (excluding the mortgage) was £740 per month. She offered to pay £40 per 
month towards the mortgage. 
Therefore even if sub-account 1 was converted to interest only terms, this would not solve 
the underlying problem or make the mortgage affordable for Miss B. And in those 
circumstances, given the contractual requirement for it to be on repayment terms, and given 
the lack of a capital repayment strategy for the end of the term, Im not persuaded that BM 
ought fairly and reasonably to convert the mortgage to fully interest only. It would not change 
the underlying fact that, as things stand, the mortgage is not affordable for Miss B or make 
enough difference for there to be a reasonable prospect of bringing the mortgage back on 
track  which is the reason for offering forbearance. 
Conclusion
As I said at the start, Im very sorry to hear about everything Miss B has been through in 
recent years. I can see she has had a very difficult time  and with all that has happened, 
and the ongoing impact it has on her, her continuing problems with the mortgage and the 
worry that she might lose her home must be very hard for her.
Ive thought very carefully about everything shes said. I know Ive not been able to agree 
with her that her mortgage has been mis-managed or that BM has treated her unfairly. But I 
hope at least my explanations have shown why Ive reached the conclusions I have.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that:
This is, and always has been, an unregulated buy to let mortgage  though in the 
circumstances Im pleased to note that BM is not objecting to her living in the 
property (subject to the mortgage being paid);
BM has correctly calculated her mortgage balance and monthly payments. The 
original borrowing is on interest only terms, further borrowing (caused by payments 
made on her behalf, interest on those payments, and interest due to missed 
payments) is on repayment terms. 
Separately to that, Miss B continues to be in arrears because her SMI payments do 
not cover all the interest charged to the mortgage or the capital repayments due on sub-account 1. Miss B has not been able to afford to make up the shortfall herself, 
resulting in arrears each month. BM manages the arrears balance separately and 
has not capitalised the arrears.
Under the terms of the mortgage contract, its right that sub-account 1 is on 
repayment terms. Miss B has no way of repaying the capital at the end of the term, 
and even if sub-account 1 were to be changed to interest only terms, the mortgage 
would still be clearly unaffordable for her based on her current circumstances and 
Miss B would not be able to make up the shortfall after SMI payments each month. In 
those circumstances, I dont think converting sub-account 1 to interest only would 
ultimately resolve Miss Bs situation, and so I dont think its unfair that BM hasnt 
done so. This might be an appropriate thing to do in the future, if Miss Bs 
circumstances change  but that would need to be assessed at the time. And I dont 
think BM has acted unfairly in not converting it to interest only before now.
BM has recognised that Miss B is a vulnerable customer, and Im pleased to see that her 
account is being managed by its specialist team. It will need to continue to treat her fairly 
and sympathetically moving forward.
But it is also important to note that for as long as Miss B continues to be unable to meet the 
shortfall in SMI payments  even on just the interest element of her mortgage  her balance 
will continue to grow. Between September 2021 and July 2022, the arrears balance 
increased by £4,000 and the main mortgage balance increased by over £3,000. 
As long as the balance continues to grow, Miss Bs situation in the long term will get more 
difficult  any equity she does have in her property is being eroded not just by the increasing 
mortgage balance, but also by the SMI loan. And BM will need to take that into account in 
considering what further forbearance its able to show Miss B. 
I do understand how difficult things are for Miss B. But I would strongly encourage her to 
take some advice, if she feels able to do so. She might be entitled to more benefits than 
shes currently claiming in view of her disabilities, for example. And she might be able to get 
financial and debt management advice to help her situation. Shes also talked about her 
plans for returning to work, and I hope shes able to do that and able to start paying more 
towards her mortgage each month.
Whatever her plans, she will need to engage with BM about the mortgage and try to agree a 
way forward by which she can increase the amount shes paying and, ultimately, bring the 
arrears down. I very much hope thats possible.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman