DRN-4405838
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited, following 
an accident he had in his car in May 2023.
Mr B made several complaints to Admiral following the accident. Some of those complaints 
have been considered by this service under a separate reference. This reference and 
decision consider Mr Bs concerns about Admirals liability decision and how it handled 
matters from 14 June 2023 to 14 September 2023.
What happened
Mr B was driving around a roundabout in May 2023 when he and another car collided. Mr B 
told Admiral that he felt the other driver was at fault and that a police officer attending the 
scene had advised him that a nearby CCTV camera was not working. He provided Admiral 
with the details of a witness to the accident. By 14 June 2023 Mr B was unhappy that 
Admiral had not yet decided liability. He was then disappointed to receive an email on 
22 June 2023 which advised that Admiral were viewing him as at fault for the accident  but 
that it would continue to look for further evidence and let him know if its view changed.
In September 2023 Mr B said he was unhappy that Admiral still hadnt decided liability. He 
said it had produced no evidence to support its view that he was likely at fault. He noted that 
whilst the email of 22 June 2023 referred to Admiral waiting for CCTV evidence, he had told 
it the police had said there was none. Mr B said it made no sense for both drivers to be left 
showing as at fault. He said he felt Admiral was biased towards the other driver.
In letters of 6 and 14 September 2023 Admiral confirmed its primary duty was to Mr B and 
that it had been supporting him  but it had to be mindful of the evidence available. It said its 
decision was to view Mr B as being at fault for the incident. It explained that his own 
statement of the loss, compared with the damage to his car, didnt support his argument that 
the other driver was likely at fault. It explained that the owners of the nearby CCTV camera 
had confirmed it was working and it had now seen accident footage from it. It said the 
footage supported its view that Mr B was at fault. It said it had progressed the claim 
reasonably but thought there had likely been some small delay in it reviewing that footage 
and replying to Mr Bs complaint. It said it would pay £50 compensation for the upset caused 
by each of those two delays.
Mr B told our Investigator that his outstanding concerns with Admiral were:
It had delayed the liability decision.
He didnt believe he was at fault.
In his view, Admiral was likely assisting the other driver.    
Hed received poor customer service.
Our Investigator felt Admiral had thoroughly investigated the accident and made its final 
liability decision within a reasonable time. She didnt think it had acted to assist the other 
driver. She was satisfied it had reached its decision fairly. She didnt think it had provided 
any poor service or caused any avoidable delays. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B was unhappy. He said our Investigator had rushed her investigation, coming to her 
view on the complaint too quickly. He said he felt her view was one-sided. His complaint was 
referred for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr B, I find my view on the 
complaint is the same as that of our Investigator. But I can assure Mr B that in reaching my 
findings Ive thoroughly considered everything hes told us along with all of the detail thats 
been made available to us from both parties in respect of this complaint. Its an unfortunate 
consequence of the nature of our decisions (and views) that sometimes one of the parties to 
the complaint is unhappy with the findings because they arent in their favour. Finding in 
favour of one party of the other though doesnt mean the decision itself is one-sided. 
It isnt part of my role to decide which driver was at fault for the accident. What I have to do 
is determine whether or not Admiral made a fair assessment on the liability issue. Here I can 
see that it acted to gather relevant evidence. I can also see that whilst it was obtaining that it 
considered the evidence it did have to hand  Mr Bs own statement and the known damage 
to his car. I can understand why Admiral felt that detail alone suggested Mr B was at fault. 
But I also see it was prepared to revise its position if other evidence suggested a different 
outcome should be reached. I think that was fair of it. 
I know Mr B felt it wasnt fair for Admiral to seek or wait for CCTV footage, when hed been 
told none was available. But, in June 2023, Admiral had been told by the owners of the 
camera that there was footage. I think it was reasonable that it then sought to obtain that and 
view it to see if it did support Mr Bs recollection of events. Unfortunately for Mr B the footage 
did not assist in that respect. Im satisfied that Admiral undertook reasonable investigations, 
considered things reasonably and moved matters on where it could. I havent seen anything 
which makes me think it was acting in favour of the other driver, such as by ignoring 
evidence of failing to follow up on evidence which might support Mr Bs statement.
I understand this has been an upsetting time for Mr B. But Im not persuaded Admiral 
provided any poor service in the period I am considering. I think Admiral acted reasonably in 
June 2022 to put Mr B on notice that the available evidence made it inclined to think he was 
at fault. Im satisfied that it continued its considerations in this respect though because 
independent evidence was outstanding which was potentially available. I think that was fair. 
I accept it had little control over when that evidence would be provided. I think that once it 
was, in August 2023, it reviewed it and updated Mr B in a reasonably timely manner.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman