DRN-4180110
The complaint
Mr O and Ms O are unhappy Aspen Insurance UK Limited turned down a claim they made 
on their wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O and Ms O were due to get married abroad in October 2020 and took out wedding 
insurance with Aspen to cover this. Following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic they 
rescheduled the wedding for May 2021. At the start of that year they contacted their wedding 
planner and queried whether the wedding was likely to go ahead given ongoing restrictions 
relating to the pandemic. The planner said the situation was uncertain and offered to move 
the wedding to a later date. 
There was discussion over possible alternatives and the planner proposed two dates in July. 
Mr O asked for the wedding to be moved to the earlier of those. The planner emailed the 
following day attaching a revised contract and said it is now all moved to 23 July 2021. The 
following day Ms O emailed and said theyd decided to postpone the wedding until 2022. 
She said that was because of potential Covid restrictions for the July date and because 
some guests were unable to make that date because of weddings that had been moved from 
the previous year. 
The planner said they could move the date to later in 2021 at the same rate but would need 
to discuss a 2022 date with vendors to see what the price would be. It queried whether Mr O 
and Ms O did want to move the date or wait and see. At the start of February 2021 they 
cancelled the wedding as they were concerned about new Covid variants and lockdowns. 
The planner confirmed the cancellation and said the wedding and all the vendors are 
booked on July 23 2021 as per our latest conversation but it would seek to recover 
payments made. 
Mr O and Ms O claimed on their insurance for the costs they werent able to recover (around 
12,000 euros). Aspen turned down the claim. It believed the wedding had been rescheduled 
for 23 July 2021. And it didnt think the reason for cancelling on that date was covered by 
one of the specified reasons set out in the policy. 
Our investigator agreed the wedding had been moved to 23 July. And as it could have gone 
ahead on that date he didnt think the cancellation was covered by the policy. 
Mr O and Ms O didnt agree. In summary they said:
They hadnt signed a contract for the 23 July and hadnt agreed to that date. It was their 
wedding planner which had pushed that date but it was the May 2021 date that had been 
cancelled. 
Aspens position that the wedding could have gone ahead on 23 July was made with the 
benefit of hindsight. Local media coverage up until May 2021 expressed uncertainty 
about whether weddings would be allowed which was only a few weeks before the July 
date.  
They referred to a case study on our website where the complaint was upheld despite 
the fact government restrictions had been lifted at the point the wedding was due to take 
place
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this has been a distressing experience for Mr O and Ms O and they had difficult 
choices to make as to whether to go ahead with their wedding. But the question for me is 
whether the claim they then made is one thats covered under the terms of their policy with 
Aspen. And in common with other insurance policies Mr O and Ms Os doesnt cover them 
for every eventuality. For cover to be available what happened needs, as a starting point, to 
fall within one of the insured events set out in the policy. 
And although the policy does provide cover for unavoidable cancellation, thats only where it 
results from one of a specified list of reasons. That includes:
the booked venue for the wedding or wedding reception being unable to hold your wedding 
and/or wedding reception due to bankruptcy, liquidation, ceasing to trade due to financial 
failure, an outbreak of infectious disease, damage to the venue, natural catastrophe or 
adverse weather conditions, murder or suicide at the venue or its closure by a
relevant authority
So if their venue had been unable to host the wedding because of Covid-19 restrictions 
thats something the policy would potentially cover. I dont think its in dispute the venue 
wouldnt have been able to do so for the rescheduled May 2021 date; their wedding planner 
has confirmed it wouldnt have been able to do so. The question is whether that was the 
wedding date Mr O and Ms O cancelled. Or if their wedding had in fact been rescheduled for 
July 2021 and, if so, whether the reasons for cancellation of that date are covered by their 
policy. 
Ive reviewed the evidence in relation to this. I dont think its in dispute Mr O and Ms O didnt 
sign a contract for the 23 July date. But there is other evidence which suggests they had 
agreed to this. The discussion over a date in July was initiated by Mr O and Ms O. The 
planner then offered two alternatives but said they were waiting on confirmation from some 
suppliers. Mr O said the later date wouldnt work and asked if the wedding could be moved 
to 23 July. In response the planner confirmed it is now all moved to 23 July 2021. And in a 
later email they said the wedding and all the vendors are booked on July 23 2021 as per our 
latest conversation. 
When Ms O emailed to say they wanted to postpone to 2022 she didnt make any mention of 
the May 2021 date but did say that one of the reasons for rescheduling was that guests were 
unable to make 23 July because of other weddings they needed to attend. That also 
suggests she believed that was the date on which the wedding was now due to take place. I 
also note the evidence Mr O and Ms O provided in support of their claim included an invoice 
from their wedding planner which listed the wedding date as 23 July 2021. So I think, on 
balance, that was the date Mr O and Ms O had moved their wedding to. Ive gone on to consider whether their reasons for cancelling that date are covered by their 
policy. I can see in correspondence with Aspen Mr O and Ms O said it wasnt possible to go 
ahead with that date because the grooms sister was due to give birth that month and the 
grooms father advised he would not be able to attend because of this, as he is the familys 
only surviving parent. Ms O has also referenced the inability of other guests to attend 
because of other weddings that had been rescheduled. I understand why that meant Mr O 
and Ms O didnt want to go ahead with the wedding but those arent reasons that are 
covered by the cancellation terms in their policy. 
I appreciate the ongoing uncertainties about the Covid-19 pandemic are also referenced in 
their emails and in their claim form. But by July 2021 restrictions in their wedding location 
had been eased meaning the venue would have been able to hold their wedding on that 
date. So I dont think this reason for cancellation is covered by their policy either.  
Mr O and Ms O have drawn attention to a case study on our website which was upheld and 
which they believe has a read across to their own. However, there were a number of 
reasons why that complaint was upheld including that the effective cause of cancellation was 
Covid-19 because the venue had been unable to get the staff or supplies it needed. That 
isnt the case here. 
But I appreciate the broader point Mr O and Ms O are making is that when they cancelled 
they reasonably thought the venue would be unable to host their wedding because of Covid-
19 restrictions. And so it isnt fair of Aspen to rely on the fact it was subsequently able to do 
so when that wasnt something they knew at the time. 
Where a consumer reasonably thought a venue was going to be unable to hold their 
wedding due to Covid 19, and they needed to take action for a good reason rather than 
await further announcements, it might be fair for an insurer to cover a claim even if the 
wedding could in fact have gone ahead.
But I dont think thats what happened here. I appreciate that wedding receptions werent 
permitted at the point Mr O and Ms O cancelled. But at the time they did so the venue gave 
an option of retaining their existing date or finding an alternative the following year. It said in 
both cases we can manage a delay of the payments with the vendors. And by early April 
lockdown measures in their destination were being eased. Later that month a road map for 
the further lifting of restrictions was announced and weddings and receptions were permitted 
from mid May which was over two months before their wedding was due to take place.
I think Mr O and Ms O could have waited for further announcements from the relevant 
authorities about the next steps prior to cancelling their wedding. In fact the evidence 
suggests the reason Mr O and Ms O decided to cancel when they did was driven by 
concerns over which guests would be able to attend coupled with a general uncertainty 
about the Covid-19 travel situation (which ultimately led them to hold their wedding in the UK 
later that year). I understand why they did that but those cancellation reasons arent covered 
by their policy. As a result I dont think Aspen acted unfairly in turning down the claim they 
made. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Ms O to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 
2023.
 
James ParkOmbudsman