DRN-2768295
The complaint
Mr S complains that a van acquired with finance from Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In December 2019 Mr S was supplied with a van and entered into a finance agreement with 
BMF. 
Mr S noticed that there was a loud noise coming from the roof rack and that the front bumper 
was coming off.
Mr S contacted BMF in January 2020 to report his concerns. He asked to withdraw from the 
finance agreement and return the car. BMF arranged an independent inspection of the car 
which found that there was a noise coming from the roof but concluded that this was due to 
wear and tear. On the basis of the findings of the report, BMF declined Mr Ss request to 
reject the car.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Initially, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Mr S wouldve been aware 
of any faults with the roof rack when he viewed the van. Mr S didnt agree. He said the noise 
caused by the roof rack wasnt apparent at the test drive because he hadnt travelled at 
speed.
Mr S obtained a further inspection report. This found damage to the roof panel and 
excessive noise and vibration from the roof. It said the roof panel should be replaced.
Our investigator looked at everything again and upheld the complaint. He said the damage 
to the roof panel was the cause of the noise inside the van and said he thought that a 
reasonable person would find this unsatisfactory. The investigator didnt think it would have 
been possible for Mr S to have seen the damage to the roof panel prior to the point of 
supply. He recommended that BMF arrange repairs to the roof panel.
BMF didnt agree. It provided further comments from the engineer who had carried out the 
first inspection, who said the noise could be caused by the roof rack itself.
Mr S provided further comments from the engineer who carried out the second inspection. 
And following this, another investigator looked at everything again and reached the view that 
the van wasnt of satisfactory quality at the pint of supply. He also said that because Mr S 
had exercised his short term right to reject within the first 30 days, he should be allowed to 
reject the van rather than have to accept a repair.
BMF didnt respond to the view so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMF supplied the van under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars and vans are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors 
such as the age and mileage of the van and the price paid. 
I would expect a second-hand van  such as that supplied to Mr S  to have a degree of 
wear and tear. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the van 
had an inherent fault, as opposed to an issue caused by general wear and tear. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 30 days theres an 
immediate right to reject the vehicle if it is of unsatisfactory quality. After 30 days  and 
within the first 6 months  if a fault occurs its presumed to have been present at the point of 
supply and its generally up to the busies to put things right. The business is allowed one 
attempt at repair. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the vehicle. After 6 
months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car or 
van wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Mr S and BMF disagree about whether the van has a fault which makes it of unsatisfactory 
quality. Theres no dispute that Mr S asked to reject the van in the first 30 days. Ive looked 
at all the available evidence with a view to deciding, on the balance of probabilities, whether 
the van was of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Ive looked at the engineers reports. Theres a difference of opinion between the engineers 
as to whether its the roof or the roof rack which is the cause of the noise. The Scotia 
engineer said the damage to the roof was cosmetic and that the roof rack was causing the 
noise. The Ace engineer said there was substantial damage to the roof panel which was the 
cause of the noise.
Based on the findings of the engineers, Im of the view that the Ace report is more 
persuasive. Its more detailed than the other report and addresses the issue of the roof rack 
but says that even thought the roof rack may be a factor, the excessive noise and vibration is 
due to the damaged roof panel. The engineer is clear in his findings that the damage to the 
roof panel isnt recent, so it follows that the roof panel was damaged at the point of supply.
Theres nothing in the further comments from either engineer which changes my opinion. 
Scotia makes the point that the van has passed a MOT, but I dont think this is relevant to 
whether the van was of satisfactory quality when supplied because an MOT doesnt involve 
an inspection of the roof panel, nor is the van driven at significant speed during an MOT test 
(which is when the noise and vibration is apparent).
Taking all of the available information into consideration, Im persuaded that the roof panel 
was damaged at the point of supply and that it is the damaged roof panel which is causing 
the excessive noise and vibration. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to be 
supplied with a vehicle with damage of a type which causes such excessive noise. I dont 
think the damage wouldve been visible at the point of supply because its only visible from 
the top of the vehicle, and I dont think the noise wouldve been apparent on a test drive 
because a vehicle doesnt tend to be driven at high speed on a test drive.
Putting things right
The Ace report recommends that the roof panel is replaced. However. Im satisfied that the damaged roof panel makes the van of unsatisfactory quality. And because Mr S exercised 
his immediate right to reject, he should be allowed to reject the van rather than accept a 
repair. 
Mr S has paid for an engineers report. Hes had to do this because he was supplied with a 
van which he didnt think was of satisfactory quality. Hes been shown to be correct in the 
belief. So I think its fair to ask BMF to refund the cost of the report. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Blue Motor Finance Limited must: 
Allow Mr S to reject the van
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the van to be collected at no cost to Mr S
Refund any deposit paid plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Refund the cost of the ACE report
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman