DRN-3944165
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc have held him liable for payments from 
his account which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In September 2022 a new payee was 
created through Mr Ws mobile banking. There was then a series of payments, made over a 
few days, through mobile banking to the new payee which totalled £1,397. 
On 29 September 2022 Mr W contacted NatWest to report that he hadnt set up the new 
payee nor made any of the payments. NatWest investigated but ultimately held Mr W liable 
for the transactions. Mr W complained and NatWest say they paid him £200 as a gesture of 
goodwill but maintained their position on the disputed transactions. The complaint was 
referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend it should be upheld. In 
a broad summary she thought the outcome NatWest had reached was fair. Mr W disagrees 
and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr W, so Ill explain why. 
Mr Ws testimony is that he didnt set up the new payee nor make any of the payments. The 
technical evidence from NatWest shows that each of the payments was instructed through 
Mr Ws mobile banking. NatWest say the IP address from which the instructions came is one 
that Mr W had commonly used for transactions he hadnt disputed. The evidence also shows 
that the device ID used to make the payments was Mr Ws phone as it had been used for 
other transactions (which havent been disputed) both before and after the payments 
relevant to this complaint. 
Mr W has provided some evidence from his phones manufacturer which indicates that his 
device hadnt been compromised and suggesting that the IP address may have been the 
source. Hes also shared that one of his social media accounts was hacked. Ive considered 
this and have taken it into account when making my decision. 
But overall, Im more persuaded by NatWests technical evidence. Specifically, the device ID 
to show that the payment instructions came from Mr Ws physical device. The evidence from 
the manufacturer supports that the device itself hadnt been compromised and Mr Ws own 
testimony is that no-one else has access to his phone. There also isnt a plausible point of 
compromise for the security details that would have been needed to log in to mobile banking, 
set up a new payee and instruct a number of payments. 
Mr W has made much of the fact that he says he didnt get a SMS message when the new 
payee was set up. Ive considered this and all the evidence from NatWest supports that a 
message would have been sent. But in any case, even if it could conclusively be shown that 
a message wasnt sent when it should have been, that wouldnt change my mind as to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
Im also aware of declined card transactions to a crypto-currency exchange which were 
attempted shortly prior to the disputed payments made through mobile banking. Mr W says 
he didnt attempt those payments either. But as they were declined by NatWest for policy 
reasons and didnt therefore leave his account, Ill not comment further on them as there was 
no loss to Mr W as a result. For clarity these declined card payments dont influence my 
thoughts on the disputed payments that did leave Mr Ws account, and which form the crux 
of his complaint.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly when 
concluding that Mr W had most likely made or given permission for another to make the 
payments he disputes. It follows that their £200 payment as a gesture of goodwill is more 
than fair and Im not going to require them to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman