DRN-2700696
The complaint
Mr T and Miss Rs complaint is about the information they received from Target Servicing 
Limited, which administers their help-to-buy loan. They say that when they were thinking of 
selling their property, they asked Target how to pay off the loan, Target didnt explain the 
process properly and that resulted in Mr T and Miss R paying for a valuation when they 
didnt need to.
Mr T and Miss R also said they werent told about the costs associated with repaying the 
loan when they took it out. They have also said that they werent told how the loan 
arrangement worked. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr T and Miss R bought a home together. In order to do so, they took out a 
conventional mortgage and a help-to-buy loan. 
On 7 September 2020 Mr T called Target to discuss the help-to-buy loan. He said they were 
thinking of moving and needed to understand what they had to pay to Target to clear the 
loan. Target explained he and Miss R would need to pay back the higher of 20% of the 
property valuation or the sale value. Target then said that there were some things Mr T and 
Miss R would need to do for the redemption process. These were to obtain a valuation, 
provide solicitors details and pay an admin fee of £200. When all those things were done, 
Target could give Mr T and Miss R a redemption quote and this would be sent to them and 
their solicitors. Target explained the valuation would only be valid for three months and if the 
sale went over that time period, they would have two weeks to provide a desktop valuation, 
which would extend the validity of the valuation to six months.
While the above conversation was ongoing, Target sent Mr T an email with a customer 
information pack attached. It said to process a redemption quote it needed the three items it 
had told Mr T about in the conversation earlier that day. It also gave him details to be able to 
make the £200 payment to it.  
The customer information pack detailed under Process Steps for Redeeming your loan in 
full said that Before you proceed with any changes to your loan, it is important that you 
understand the effects of that change. We recommend that you consider seeking 
independent legal and/or financial advice.
The document went on the explain the stages needed for redemption to happen. The first 
was that a valuation would need to be produced in order to allow Target to calculate how 
much needed to be paid to clear the loan. It went on to say the valuation report would only 
be valid for three months. If the loan repayment was not completed within three months of 
the date of the valuation, the borrower would need to provide a desktop valuation, 
reconfirming the property value. It went on to confirm the loan would need to be redeemed 
within six months of the valuation report. 
Mr T and Miss R have said that Mr Ts understanding of the conversation with Target was 
that they needed to get the valuation done immediately in order to be able to sell their 
property. 
Around a week later Mr T called Target again. He said hed spoken to one of the call 
handlers colleagues and had been told they had to get a valuation and pay a £200 
administration fee to find out what the redemption figure was. He then asked whether, as 
they would be paying off the loan within the initial five years of the term, if there were any 
other fees they would need to pay. He was told there werent. Mr T confirmed with the call 
handler that once he had the valuation, had returned the solicitors form and paid the admin 
fee, Target could tell him how much he and Miss R would have to pay back. 
On 23 September 2020 a surveyor completed a valuation of Mr T and Miss Rs home. Mr T 
called Target again and asked about the process for getting a redemption quote  which way 
around the different requirements had to be done and when he needed to pay the admin fee. 
Target essentially told him it didnt matter which way around, but it wouldnt do anything until 
it had all three things. Timescales for the validity of the valuation, solicitors form and admin 
fee were given. 
Later the same day Mr T called Target back. He said he had spoken to a solicitor and it had 
told him he didnt need to do anything until the final sale value of the property was known. 
The call-handler explained how a redemption quote would be produced and that Mr T could 
send in the documentation whenever he wanted to. Mr T said the property wasnt going on 
the market until Friday and he was unhappy that the clock on the validity of the valuation had 
already started to run down. Mr T complained that hed been told by Target that he had to 
complete the requirements for a redemption quote before the property was put on the 
market. 
Target responded to the complaint. It said that its representative had told Mr T that in order 
for a redemption quote to be produced it would need a RICS valuation, a solicitors form and 
an administration fee of £200. It highlighted that Mr T had been told that the valuation would 
only be valid for three months and a desktop valuation would be required if completion took 
more than that time period. The period the valuation would be valid was highlighted in a 
further conversation with Mr T the following week. Target also said that it wasnt aware at the 
time of the conversations with Mr T that the property wasnt then currently for sale and 
couldnt have advised Mr T not to get a valuation until there was a potential sale in progress. 
Mr T and Miss R werent satisfied with Targets response and referred their complaint to this 
service. They told the investigator looking into their complaint that Mr T had got the 
impression from his first conversation with Target that the requirements it listed had to be 
fulfilled right away. It was also confirmed the property was taken off the market in early 2021, 
as it hadnt sold. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
was satisfied that Target hadnt told Mr T that the valuation had to be done immediately in 
order to place the property on the market. The investigator highlighted that Mr T had been 
told the steps needed to be completed to get a quote for how much he and Miss R would 
need to pay to clear the loan. It was also highlighted in the customer information pack they 
received, that legal and/or financial advice was sought before any action was taken to alter 
the loan.
Mr T and Miss R werent happy with the investigators conclusion and they asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. They reiterated that Mr T was led 
to believe they needed to get a valuation done immediately and at no point during the 
conversations was he told they didnt need to start the process of getting a valuation straight 
away. What Ive decided  and why
Before I consider the details of this complaint, I would reiterate our investigators comments 
that a financial business is entitled to the opportunity to consider a complaint before this 
service becomes involved. The issues that have been raised in the communications with this 
service about what Mr T and Miss R understood from the time of the sale about how the loan 
worked and the fees involved in repaying it, arent matters included in their complaint to 
Target. As such, Mr T and Miss R would initially need to raise them with the business that 
sold them the loan.  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T and Miss R have said Mr T was told by Target that they had to fulfil the requirement to 
get a redemption quote before they could place the property on the market. I have listened to 
the conversations between Mr T and Target and I dont agree that Mr T was told he had to 
undertake any actions before the property could be placed on the market.  There was a 
discussion about how Target would calculate the amount Mr T and Miss R would need to 
pay it to clear the loan and how to get a redemption quote was explained in detail. There 
was no comment from Target as to when, during the sale process, the redemption quote 
process needed to be undertaken. It did, however, tell Mr T about the timescales for the 
validity of the valuation  three months, which could be extended to six. Target also provided 
Mr T and Miss R with written details of the process to pay off the loan. Again, no comment 
was made about when in the process to sell the property these actions should be done. 
I can understand Mr T and Miss R thinking they needed to get a redemption quote early in 
the process, so that they had an idea about how much they would need to pay back when 
selling the property. However, I am not persuaded that anything Target said to them would 
have brought them to the conclusion they needed to get a redemption quote as soon as the 
property went on the market.
In addition, while the solicitor Mr T spoke to said that a redemption statement shouldnt be 
requested until a sale had been secured and the sale price was known, that is not 
necessarily the case. Each consumer will be in a unique situation. If that consumer wants to 
sell and immediately buy, they may want or need to know how much theyd have to pay to 
clear the loan so they could know how much equity they would likely have and what they 
could afford to buy going forward. Target wasnt providing advice and wasnt in a position to 
tell Mr T and Miss R when they should complete the actions mentioned and ask for a 
redemption quote. 
Again, in the documentation Target provided to Mr T and Miss R during Mr Ts initial 
conversation, it didnt give any indication of when they should request a redemption quote. 
However, what it did suggest, before doing anything relating to the loan, was for legal and/or 
financial advice to be taken. It would be such advice that would take their individual situation 
into account and determine when best to complete the actions needed for a redemption 
quote to be undertaken. 
I know this will disappoint Mr T and Miss R, but I am not persuaded Target made an error 
when giving information to Mr T when he enquired about paying off the help-to-buy loan.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T and Miss K to accept or reject my decision 
before 22 July 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman