DRN-3539184
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Santander UK Plc wouldnt extend the terms of their mortgage 
offer. As a result, they had to select a higher interest rate product.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D applied  via a broker  for a mortgage with Santander for a property they 
wanted to buy. Santander issued a mortgage offer on 4 September 2020. The mortgage 
offer confirmed that the rate offered was 1.74% fixed for approximately two years. And it 
confirmed the offer was valid until 31 December 2020. 
The purchase of their original property fell through in October 2020. Mr and Mrs D found a 
new property to buy and Santander asked for a new application to be submitted. But Mr and 
Mrs D say Santander told the broker they could proceed on the original interest rate product. 
Santander asked the broker for up-to-date self-employed income evidence for Mr D on       
23 November 2020. The broker responded on 27 November 2020 saying Mr D was waiting 
for his accountant to prepare 2020 accounts and it would supply those as soon as possible.
On 21 December 2020 the broker asked for the deadline for the rate product to be extended 
again due to covid related delays at HMRC, meaning Santanders requirements for self-
employed income wouldnt be provided on time. The broker provided that evidence on          
7 January 2021, but Santander told Mr and Mrs Ds broker they couldnt proceed on the 
original rate product soon after and the broker appealed that. Santanders internal notes 
indicate that efforts were made to secure the original interest rate but Santanders 
underwriters decided that couldnt be offered. Santander informed the broker on                 
23 February 2021 and the broker selected a new interest rate product  2.67%. Santander 
issued a new mortgage offer on 11 March 2021 and it released the funds for completion on  
9 April 2021.
Mr and Mrs D complained to Santander in February 2021. They said they think they should 
receive £9,275.76 from Santander to compensate them for the additional cost of the rate 
they received over the fixed period of two years. And they say their broker was twice told by 
Santander that the original rate applied for would be secured. Mr and Mrs D say that they 
had no choice but to proceed on the higher rate as they were at a late stage in their 
purchase and were told they could complain and get the difference refunded.
Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs D on 4 March 2021 with its final response to their complaint. 
It said the rate they initially applied for wasnt available when their broker tried to proceed 
with the application in January 2021, as the original offer had expired.
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, Mr and Mrs D, via their broker, asked us to consider 
their complaint. The broker said Santander didnt leave Mr and Mrs D any time to change 
their plan  had they been informed at an earlier date they could not have the rate product 
they wanted, Mr and Mrs D would have had the time to make an informed choice as to 
whether to seek an alternative mortgage with a lower rate with another lender. But on three 
separate occasions Mr and Mrs D were informed by Santander, that the original rate would 
be honoured. The broker said the delays were not the issue  as Santander has claimed. 
The relevant issue was that Mr and Mrs D were informed several times they would be able to 
proceed on the original interest rate product.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. He found that Santander was not 
required, either by its regulatory obligations or internal policies to grant an extension to       
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage offer.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. They say the broker was given many assurances by Santanders 
business development manager (BDM) that it would honour the interest rate offered. The 
broker has provided copies of email chains which it says supports that assertion. But our 
investigator didnt agree. He said he hadnt seen from any of the emails provided by the 
broker that itd received assurances Mr and Mrs D could proceed on the original interest rate 
after the original offer had expired.
As Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr and Mrs Ds complaint Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for 
Santander to decline to extend the original rate they applied for. Ive also thought about 
whether the evidence indicates that the broker was given assurances by Santander that it 
would extend the rate and what any such assurances would mean in the circumstances.
Both parties  the broker on behalf of Mr and Mrs D, and Santander  have provided 
evidence of the communication between Santander and the broker to show what happened 
around the time Santander declined to extend the rate Mr and Mrs D initially applied for. 
While not illustrating a complete picture, the perspective from both sides has helped me 
reach my decision.
As mentioned above, Ive seen that, in October 2020, Santander required Mr and Mrs D to 
submit a new application after they lost the property they initially wanted to buy. Mr and Mrs 
D had a mortgage offer which was due to expire on 31 December 2020. But because they 
needed to re-apply, that mortgage offer was no longer valid. 
Santanders case tracking notes show that it asked the broker for new product details on    
20 October 2020. The broker responded the same day saying Santanders BDM had said 
Santander would honour the original interest rate product. The contact notes dont confirm 
Santander told the broker it would honour the interest rate product at that time, though I 
havent seen that Santander has contested that point. Assuming it did agree then, I would 
consider that a concession on Santanders part, given that it no longer offered that rate and 
Mr and Mrs D didnt have a valid mortgage offer for that rate.
On 23 November 2020  following receipt of the valuation report around 2 November 2020 -   
Santanders underwriter noted that the income evidence it held was out of date and wanted 
to know about an apparent large drop in self-employed income for Mr D. And Santanders 
case notes show the broker was asked for the information required on 27 November 2020.
The broker responded on 21 December 2020 thanking Santander for the extension it had 
allowed to date and asked for another extension. The broker said Mr Ds accountant 
confirmed his tax return had just been completed and submitted to HMRC, but HMRC will 
not be able to provide the reports you require for your deadline due to increased business 
levels, reduced staffing, Covid-19 restrictions and the Christmas and New Year period. From that I can see that the broker was aware of a deadline of sorts, but I havent seen that it was 
explicitly told of a deadline by Santander. So, I think its likely that the broker referred to the 
expiry of the original mortgage offer  31 December 2020. But Santanders case notes dont 
show that it responded granting another extension.
The broker provided the outstanding income evidence on 7 January 2021 and, again, 
thanked Santander for extending the case. But Santanders notes from 21 January 2021 
then show that it required Mr and Mrs D to select a new product as the original was no 
longer available. The notes explain that Santander would have honoured the original rate as 
the funds were booked, had the purchase completed before the original offer expired. The 
notes also explain that an extension to the offer couldnt be made because the offer wasnt 
actually valid. The notes indicate that message was communicated to Santanders BDM on 
26 January 2021 and 4 February 2021. The notes also show that Santander communicated 
internally in an effort to overturn that decision but established that it couldnt on                   
15 February 2021, when Santanders BDM was informed. 
The brokers submissions in relation to communication with Santander are copies of emails 
with the BDM, internal emails and screen shots of a Santander portal it uses to track the 
progress of mortgage applications.
An email from the broker to the BDM on 3 February 2021 asked why the original product 
was not being honoured, when it was in October [2020] and asked the BDM to look into it 
again. The email asserted that nothing had happened between October 2020 and 
confirmation of the old rate no longer being available on 21 January 2021. But I think its 
clear that what had happened was the expiry of the original offer on 31 December 2020  
that being the date the mortgage rate product would always have expired. 
The brokers internal email says that the BDM had received confirmation that the original 
interest rate couldnt be applied but the BDM would appeal that decision. Another internal 
email, dated 8 February 2021, says the broker had spoken to the BDM and the original rate 
had been agreed and that Santanders portal confirmed that. The screen shot of Santanders 
portal shows the broker was asked to provide new product details on 21 January 2021 and 
on 5 February 2021 says case reinstated.
Its not possible from the evidence available to conclude exactly what the BDM told the 
broker on 8 February 2021. But the portal entry from the 5 February 2021 says case 
reinstated  not rate or product. And Ive seen no entries later than that date. So, I dont 
think the portal supports the assertion that the BDM had secured the original rate on or 
around 8 February 2021. And a further internal email from the broker says: Yes, said hes 
sorting it but Santander are working out how they do it as rate not available. He seemed 
semi confident! 
I think that shows that, even after the date when the broker says the BDM had confirmed 
hed secured the original rate  8 February 2021  there was still some doubt about whether 
Santander would be able to do so. And its clear to me that the broker was aware of that 
doubt. So, I think the evidence indicates that Santander didnt confirm the original rate would 
be available to Mr and Mrs D after the first mortgage offer expired, only that it would try to 
secure it.
I understand that, in all the circumstances, Santanders request for additional income 
evidence towards the end of November 2020, didnt allow Mr and Mrs D much time to 
provide it before their original mortgage offer would have expired. But, just as HMRC 
appears to have been experiencing delays at that time, the same, as I understand it, was 
true of the mortgage industry due to the restrictions and backlogs caused by the covid 
pandemic. So, while Santander may have made that request sooner in ordinary circumstances, its understandable that it may have taken longer at that time. And the broker 
has said the complaint isnt about the delay.
Santander appears to have taken some time to consider further whether it could allow        
Mr and Mrs D the rate they originally applied for. That includes considering whether it could 
extend under its temporary policy to allow for covid related delays. Its supplied a copy of its 
policy in that regard. Its said that it couldnt apply this policy because the rate had expired 
and Mr and Mrs D didnt have a mortgage offer to extend, given that the original offer was 
withdrawn when the original purchase fell through. I think thats reasonable  if Mr and Mrs D 
didnt have an offer, it couldnt be extended.
Based on all the evidence and submissions Ive seen I dont think Santander has acted 
unreasonably by not extending the interest rate product beyond the date of Mr and Mrs Ds 
original offer. So, I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman