DRN-3307436
The complaint
Mr W complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) unfairly charged him
for excess mileage and for damage after he took the decision to voluntary terminate a hire
purchase agreement (in respect of a car) in his name.
What happened
In December 2014, Mr W acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from
BMWFS. The total repayable under the agreement was £24,765.55. Mr W was required to
make an advance payment of £48.82, 47 monthly payments of £356.59 and there was a final
optional payment of £7,957 if he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement.
The agreement set out that Mr W had the right to terminate the agreement at any time
before the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this
was £12,382.78.
In March 2018, Mr W chose to exercise his right to terminate the agreement early. After
Mr W handed the car back, BMWFS charged him £704.38 for excess mileage and £258 for
damage.
The agreement set out that Mr W could terminate the agreement early by returning the car
and by paying:
any arrears and any other sums which have become payable under the agreement
before the termination (including any excess mileage charge)
the amount (if any) by which one-half of the total amount payable exceeds the
aggregate of the advance payment and repayments paid
compensation for damage to the car that is deemed beyond fair wear and tear
The agreement also set out that Mr W had an annual mileage allowance of 10,000 and a
total mileage allowance of 40,010 (inclusive of 10 delivery miles). It said that if he exceeded
this allowance BMWFS could charge him 4.65 pence for every mile that he exceeded the
allowance by. It said that in the event he terminated the agreement early, the mileage
allowance would be pro-rated for the time the car was on hire.
Mr W didnt think either charge was enforceable so referred the matter to our service for
investigation.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
should be upheld in part.
She was satisfied that BMWFS had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line
with the terms of the hire purchase agreement and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
She also found that the terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of an
excess mileage charge being payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, she said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination.
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable
under the hire purchase agreement. It doesnt include charges for items that are
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent
to be affected by the termination.
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Ws agreement was clear that the
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination.
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in
the total price of the agreement.
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the
total price of the agreement. Mr Ws accrued liability under S100 therefore included
paying an additional amount of £704.38.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage
would be charged, when it would accrue, and how much it would cost.
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded.
When considering all the terms of the agreement as a whole, she was satisfied it was
made clear and not misleading about when an excess mileage charge could be
applied and for how much. She was therefore satisfied it was fair and reasonable for
BMWFS to charge the additional amount.
However, she came to the view that BMWFS was only able to charge Mr W £30 for damage
and not £258.
In summary she said:
BMWFS had provided no evidence in support of the two dent charges raised totalling
£228
Mr W accepts the tyre inflation kit (for which BMWFS had charged £30) wasnt in full
working order when the car was returned.
The investigator then went on to say that BMWFS should:
Reduce the damage charge of £258 to £30. And if Mr W had paid anything towards
this charge then anything paid over and above £30 should be refunded together with
interest.
Remove any adverse information recorded with third party credit reference agencies
in respect of the damage charge.
But she added that BMWFS could:
continue to hold Mr W liable for the excess mileage charge of £704.38 and if not
paid, the reduced damage charge of £30.
Both parties responded to say they didnt agree with the investigators view.BMWFS responded to say [Mr W] is contractually obligated to pay the excess mileage and
fair wear and tear amounts as he agreed to them at point of sale and it had reported
accurately the status of Mr Ws agreement to third party credit reference agencies. It also
said that given it had heard nothing from our service for over a year it had started, or had
restarted, collection of the debt and Mr W had been in conversation with it in this respect.
Mr W responded to say that he accepted he should be held liable for a reduced £30 damage
charge, but he shouldnt be held liable for the excess mileage charge. In respect of his
liability for the excess mileage charge Mr W, as well as reiterating and expanding on his
previous submissions, said (in summary):
In his view the purpose and intention of the voluntary termination provisions is to
allow people tied into long term contracts and who fall into financial difficulties the
ability to exit those contracts with no further liability where 50% of the cost has been
paid.
As previously explained to our service he was in financial difficulties when he took
the decision to voluntary terminate.
The investigator considered both parties responses to her view, but she wasnt persuaded
to change her mind. Therefore, the complaint was passed to me for review and
decision.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement
allowed Mr W use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of
£7,957. While Mr W was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain conditions,
such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each
year and overall, throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set out what
would happen should Mr W not meet those requirements.
Mr W exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary
termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay anything more.
But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement,
whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess
mileage or other charges are due.
In this case Mr W accepts that he was required to pay at least £12,382.78 to voluntary
terminate the agreement. But he disputes the excess mileage charge of £704.38 that has
been added on top of this figure.The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of
Mr Ws hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and in
his case, that was £12,382.78. Various sections of the agreement Mr W had with BMWFS
also referred to the liability on early termination, including where excess mileage, damage
charges or other charges may increase the final liability.
Whether or not its fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to every case, as it will
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what Ive
to decide is has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow the charging for
excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding voluntary
termination? In Mr Ws specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why.
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to
termination arent affected by the termination. What this means is that Mr W is liable to pay
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Ws hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage
Charges. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that
mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance
will be reduced to reflect the shorter period of hire and that your obligation to pay any
excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Mr Ws
agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue.
The agreement also has a section headed Termination: your rights. This section contains
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary
sets out that so long as Mr W has paid at least half the total amount payable under the
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts with
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for exceeding
the mileage might apply.
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been
constructed has prejudiced Mr W.
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mr W is liable to pay the
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under
S99 of the CCA.
So overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in
seeking from him £704.38 in respect of excess mileage.
After Mr Ws complaint was passed to me for decision, BMWFS provided our service with a
copy of the inspection report that was undertaken on 12 April 2018 and under which the
following charges were identified and invoiced for:
tyre inflation kit  incomplete  sealant missing  replace £30
door LHR  dented  across swage line  repair and repaint £114
door RHF  dented  greater than 10mm  repair and repaint £114
total £258Mr W doesnt dispute he is liable for the £30 for the tyre inflation kit being incomplete. So,
Ive restricted my consideration here to whether BMWFS has acted fairly and reasonably in
charging Mr W £228 for damage to two doors (LHR and RHF).
Photographs have been provided as part of the inspection report. Ive reviewed these and
Im satisfied that they show damage to both the LHR and RHF doors that are beyond what
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) deem to be appropriate wear
and tear and which, under the terms of Mr Ws agreement, BMWFS can charge for.
And because of this, Im satisfied that BMWFS is entitled to charge for the damage to the
LHR and RHF doors. Im also satisfied that the sum of £258 in this respect is, in all the
circumstances, both fair and reasonable.
So overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in
seeking from him £258 for damage.
Notwithstanding what I say above, which for the avoidance of doubt are my current findings,
BMWFS confirmed to our service in December 2021 that it has cleared Mr Ws account to
£nil with nothing further to pay. I can also see that Mr Ws credit file (dated November 2021
and provided by Mr W) shows his account with BMWFS as having a balance of £nil with no
adverse information being recorded.
BMWFS responded to my provisional decision to say it accepted it and had nothing further to 
add.
Mr W didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date I gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that BMWFS has confirmed it accepts my provisional decision and Mr W didnt 
respond to it by the date I gave, I can confirm I see no good reason to depart from my 
provisional findings and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited has done nothing wrong
in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman