DRN-4285650
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Santander UK Plc dealt with a claim he raised under the 
connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr S made some room bookings with T, a third party. He used his Santander credit card to 
pay in full. The rooms were booked on a non-refundable basis in the event of cancellation. 
Mr S subsequently cancelled his bookings. He hasnt specified his reasons for doing so. He 
sought a refund from T, taking the matter to court as a breach of contract claim where he 
obtained default judgment in his favour.
T didnt settle the judgment debt and Mr S turned to Santander to pursue the claim, as under 
section 75 liability is both joint and several. Santander didnt agree to meet the claim. It said 
Mr S had made the booking on a non-refundable basis, and suggested he pursue recovery 
under the judgment hed already obtained against T.
Mr S was unhappy with Santanders stance and referred the matter to us. He says the non-
refundable term breaches the unfair contract terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA).
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He noted the court hadnt made 
a ruling in respect of the contract terms, having issued default judgment in the absence of a 
response from T to Mr Ss claim. The investigator also found it relevant that Mr S had 
obtained a lower rate for his bookings on the basis that they were non-refundable. He didnt 
think that Mr S had satisfactorily demonstrated a breach of contract such that Santander 
ought to have treated his claim differently.
Mr S hasnt accepted the investigators conclusions. Hes asked for this review, reiterating 
his point about the term being unfair under the CRA (which also formed the argument in his 
court claim). In addition, hes supplied a transcript of a county court judgment he believes 
supports his position. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
None of the key facts in this case appears to be in dispute. Its accepted that Mr S made the 
bookings on a non-refundable basis, that he subsequently did cancel, that he paid using his 
credit card, and that the transaction amounts and structure meet the requirements for him to 
seek to make a claim under section 75.
Our investigator mentioned the possibility of using the chargeback facility under the card 
scheme rules, but discounted this because the time period for doing so had long passed. I 
note this for the sake of completeness, as I appreciate Mr Ss complaint isnt founded in 
whether Santander ought to have raised the claim via chargeback.
For what its worth, I share the investigators view on whether this was an avenue open to 
Santander. I would simply add that, as the cancellation policy appears to have been clearly 
brought to Mr Ss attention when he made his bookings, there would appear to be little 
purpose in attempting a chargeback on these grounds even if it had been in time.
On the matter of whether Santander has acted unreasonably in the way it responded to the 
section 75 claim, I accept that Santanders response didnt set out its position on whether it 
considered the cancellation term unfair. That doesnt make the banks response to the claim 
unreasonable; the position its taken is that it considers it would be able to rely on the term.
The CRA gives courts and certain regulators the power to determine whether a term is 
unfair. While our service isnt one of those listed in the CRA, I must have regard for (among 
other things) relevant law when dealing with a complaint. The judgment Mr S has provided is 
in some ways helpful. It doesnt offer any form of precedent and isnt in my view sufficiently 
similar  it deals with the return leg of a flight booking rather than a hotel booking. But it does 
set out the test a court will apply as to whether a term is unfair.
Under the CRA, a term is unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a 
significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations under the contract to the detriment 
of the consumer.
and Whether a term is fair is to be determined
(a)taking into account the nature of the subject matter of the contract, and
(b)by reference to all the circumstances existing when the term was agreed and to all 
of the other terms of the contract or of any other contract on which it depends.
Mr S has based his claim on the list of terms appearing in Schedule 2, Part 1 of the CRA, 
which sets out consumer contract terms which may be regarded as unfair  the so-called 
grey list. According to the CRA, the terms on the list are not automatically unfair, but may 
be used to assist a court when considering the application of the fairness test Ive 
mentioned. So it doesnt follow that a term that makes the hotel booking non-refundable in 
the event of cancellation would be deemed unfair simply because it could meet the definition 
in the grey list. It would still need to be assessed based on the fairness test above.
While I can see the argument Mr S has made, I think its quite possible a court could 
nevertheless determine that the term doesnt meet the threshold for unfairness. As I 
understand it, Mr S would have had the option to use T or other accommodation providers. 
He also had the option to book the rooms with T at a different price under which he would 
have been able to receive a refund if he cancelled. These are just some of the 
circumstances existing when the term was agreed, and could well affect the conclusion in 
respect of whether the term caused a significant imbalance.
With this in mind, I dont consider its sufficiently clear that the term would be deemed unfair 
and could not be relied upon such that Santander was acting unreasonably when it declined 
to meet Mr Ss breach of contract claim. That doesnt mean a court would deem the term 
fair, of course  and as Mr S has a default judgment against T, that question has yet to be 
determined. However, based on the current position I cant properly say that the fair way to 
resolve this complaint would be for Santander to reimburse Mr S. In my view, the bank 
hasnt treated him unfairly in the way it responded to his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman