DRN-3243952
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mrs M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
Background
Briefly:
In 2006 Mrs M took out PPI at the same time as applying for a credit card by post.
At the time Mrs M was employed and she told us she was entitled to three months sick pay 
and six months redundancy pay. She also said she couldve relied on friends and family to 
help with her card payments if she wasnt working. Finally Mrs M told us she was in good 
health at the time.
According to Capital Ones records, Mrs M paid a total of just over £100 for PPI during the 
policys lifetime.
The adjudicator didnt think PPI has been mis-sold  they thought Mrs M chose to take out 
the policy and there was nothing to indicate it was wrong for her. But they thought Capital 
Ones payment in relation to the non-disclosure of high commission and profit share was fair 
in the circumstances.
Because Mrs M, through her representative disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Capital 
One has provided a copy of Mrs Ms credit agreement sent to her following her postal 
credit card application. Looking at this I can see Mrs M ticked a box and signed 
separately to agree to take out the cover  it was also described here as optional.
I can see Mrs M has said that she felt pressured to take out the policy. But I find it 
implausible that this could be the case  this was a postal application which Mrs M 
completed in her own time and with no interaction from a member of Capital Ones staff. 
The application didnt say or imply PPI had to be taken out  so Im not persuaded undue 
pressure was placed on Mrs M to take out PPI. I think she had a real choice about it.
Because this was a postal sale Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M  so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time she appears to 
have been eligible for the cover and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
significant exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as those for unusual employment 
circumstances or existing medical conditions. So I think it would have been useful for her 
if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mrs 
M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above Ive decided that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One 
(Europe) plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Because it has already done this, 
theres nothing more it needs to do to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman