DRN-3831398
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) is refusing to refund him the amount he 
lost as the result of a scam. 
Mr W is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr W 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr W saw a breakfast news video on YouTube about a business called 
Blueprint Capital (X) explaining how someone had made a lot of money using the investment 
service it offered. After finding positive online reviews Mr W decided to call the number 
shown on the video.
X explained the investment process to Mr W and was very convincing. X asked for a large 
investment to start but agreed with Mr W that he could start investing with a smaller amount.
X explained that the investment had to be funded through a Coinbase wallet and as Mr W 
didnt know how to do this X directed Mr W to download the screen sharing application 
AnyDesk. This gave X access to Mr Ws device.
X provided Mr W with access to a platform where he could see his investment. When the 
investment started to fall X explained Mr W would need to invest more to see higher returns. 
When Mr W explained he didnt have access to further funds X persuaded him to take 
several loans and take money from his pension to fund the investment.
By the end of the scam Mr Ws investment was showing a substantial balance. But when Mr 
W attempted to make a withdrawal, he was asked for a large payment to cover taxes. The 
website was then taken down and Mr W realised he had fallen victim to a scam.
Mr W made the following payments to the scam from his HSBC account:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
7 October 2021 Coinbase £550 Debit Card
7 October 2021 Coinbase £500 Debit Card
26 October 2021 Coinbase £24,500 Transfer
18 November 2021 Coinbase £25,000 Transfer
15 December 2021 Coinbase £25,000 Transfer
Mr W was able to retrieve a small amount from the Coinbase account (£438.95) but other 
than this he has been unable to recover any of the payments he made.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr W 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr W has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mr W and HSBC sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether 
HSBC should refund the remaining funds Mr W lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr W made
Mr W made payments into the scam by both his debit card and the method of transfer.
When a payment is made by debit card the only method of recovery HSBC has is to request 
a chargeback.
HSBC was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr W made in relation to this 
scam to Coinbase.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr W was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr W didnt 
make the debit card payments to the scammer directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency 
exchange (Coinbase). This is important because HSBC was only able to process 
chargeback claims against the merchant he paid (Coinbase), not another party.
The service provided by Coinbase would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Ws payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Coinbase provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr W paid. As Coinbase provided 
the requested service to Mr W any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
I have considered whether Mr W should have received a refund under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code for the payments he made by transfer. But the CRM 
code only applies when domestic payments (as the result of a scam) are sent to another 
person. Here Mr W sent the payments to an account held in his own name and the scam 
occurred when he moved his purchased crypto from that account to the scammer. Im 
satisfied the CRM code wouldnt apply in this scenario.
Should HSBC have reasonably prevented the payments Mr W made?
Mr W has accepted he authorised the payments he made to Coinbase, so the starting point 
here is that Mr W is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers 
(PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to 
undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.The question here is whether HSBC should have stepped in when Mr W was attempting to 
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
I have considered the payments Mr W made into the scam. The first two payments, although 
made to a new payee, were for relatively low amounts. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
say HSBCs fraud prevention systems should be triggered every time a customer pays a 
new business especially when that business appears to be legitimate as is the case here. 
So, I dont think these payments would reasonably have triggered HSBCs fraud prevention 
systems.
The remaining three payments made into the scam were for significantly higher values. 
However, the payments were spread out over three months and by the time Mr W made his 
first payment he had already made two smaller successful payments to Coinbase without 
complaint.
In addition to the above I have looked over the payments Mr W has made from his account 
in the 12 months prior to the payments he made into the scam. Mr W has previously made 
large payments of up to the amounts he paid into the scam so Mr Ws account had a history 
of sending large payments, and the sending of large amounts would not be considered 
unusual when compared to the normal operating of the account.
Mr W had also previously sent many payments to the business eToro, a platform 
specialising in trading cryptocurrency and other assets. While Mr W has correctly pointed out 
the two platforms are different, I think they share some similar attributes and as Mr W had 
made numerous payments to eToro without any concerns over a long period of time, I think 
these payments would have caused HSBC to have less concern over the payments Mr W 
was making to Coinbase.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable that the payments Mr W made into the scam did 
not trigger HSBCs fraud prevention systems, so HSBC did not miss out on an opportunity to 
prevent the scam and is therefore not responsible for Mr Ws loss.
Mr W has said that the pattern of taking loans and incoming payments coming into his 
account to then be sent directly to Coinbase should have triggered HSBCs fraud prevention 
systems. But I dont think this is necessarily true as it wasnt unusual for Mr W to receive 
funds to his account and transfer them elsewhere, and I dont think its reasonable to 
suggest this should have been considered uncharacteristic behaviour that should cause a 
trigger either.
The Investigator in this case has also said the incorrect reasons Mr W gave when he applied 
for a loan to fund the investment, and the content of a call recording from a separate case 
showed that even if HSBC had intervened and discussed the payments with Mr W it is 
unlikely Mr W would have given honest answers allowing HSBC to uncover the scam. 
However, as I dont think it was unreasonable that HSBC didnt intervene when Mr W was 
making the payments from his HSBC account, I have not made a finding on these points.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman