DRN-3678904
The complaint
Mr H and the estate of Mrs S (the estate) complain that Nationwide Building Society 
blocked a request to transfer funds from Mrs Ss savings account to a nominated account 
with another bank. 
What happened
Mrs S was as an existing customer of Nationwide. All of Mrs Ss affairs, including financial, 
were undertaken by relatives appointed under a power of attorney (PoA) established in 
2014. The PoA had been properly registered, and Nationwide had also been provided with 
and recorded a copy of this in relation to all accounts Mrs S held with them.
A Nationwide One Year Triple Access Online Savings account (savings account) was 
opened under the PoA for Mrs S in January 2021. A current account (nominated account) 
held in Mrs Ss name with another bank was nominated to receive payments from and send 
payments to the savings account. The savings account deposit matured on 1 February 2022 
and the proceeds were transferred by Nationwide into a new Instant Access Savings 
account (instant access account) pending receipt of further instructions.
On 5 February 2022, telephone instructions were given to Nationwide under the PoA to 
transfer the matured funds from the instant access account to the nominated account. But 
Nationwide prevented this from happening. The attorneys say Nationwide initially said the 
PoA wasnt attached to the instant access account and would take four days to resolve. The 
attorneys were also told withdrawals could only be made online in tranches of £10,000 and it 
would take nine days to provide this service to the attorneys. 
After nine days, Nationwide confirmed the PoA had been properly applied but online access 
wasnt yet available and would need to be referred internally. Nationwide then asked the 
attorneys questions about the proposed transfer. It was suggested they visit a local branch 
with identification. They could then close the account and a cheque for the balance would be 
provided. But, on visiting, the branch manager said theyd be wrongly advised. So, the 
attorneys raised a complaint. They were unhappy with Nationwides actions and conflicting 
advice. They wanted them to complete the requested transfer and reimburse lost interest as 
a result of the delays. 
A few days later, they received a call from Nationwide asking to speak to Mrs S. But as Mrs 
S had been resident in a care home for some time, they spoke to an attorney. Nationwide 
asked further questions about the nature of the proposed transaction. Nationwide wanted to 
know where the money was going, for what purpose and what interest rate it would be 
attracting. The attorneys provided this information to Nationwide on or around 11 March 
2022.
Nationwide responded to the complaint in a letter dated 15 March 2022. They didnt agree 
theyd made an error when blocking Mrs Ss account. They said they were acting in Mrs Ss 
best interests under their account terms and conditions. They wanted to ensure the interest 
she would be earning was better than she was receiving on their instant access account. 
Nationwide said theyd consider the information provided to enable the requested transfer 
but werent able to redress any loss of interest. Nationwide did agree they hadnt kept in 
contact with the attorneys within the correct timescales. As an apology. They offered 
compensation of £75.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, the attorneys rejected their offer and referred the 
complaint to this service. Sadly, Mrs S died in April 2022. So, the PoA ended at that point. 
But the estate asked this service to continue to investigate the complaint.
Having considered all the information available, our investigator thought Nationwide had 
acted within their terms and conditions, so hadnt done anything wrong.
The estate didnt agree with our investigators findings. They believed their reasons for 
moving the funds were sound and didnt agree the account terms and conditions allowed 
Nationwide to block the transaction in this way. The attorneys thought Nationwides actions 
were unjustified.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the estates complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering the 
estates complaint here. 
It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. Its also 
not our role to ask a business to alter their procedures or processes or impose 
improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly 
within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of the estates experience with them. When considering this complaint, Ive 
also considered any relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their handbook  
where they apply.
Nationwide have explained they retain a responsibility to ensure they always act in the best 
interests of their members/customers. This is true of all financial businesses. A PoA is a 
legal document which allows someone to make decisions on behalf of the grantor. Here 
thats Mrs S. However, the existence of a PoA doesnt relinquish Nationwides responsibility 
to ensure it acts in Mrs Ss best interests. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions specific to Nationwides savings accounts. Under the 
heading Stopping money being paid into or being taken out of your account, section 45 
says:
We may also refuse to carry out a withdrawal on your accountif:
a) We reasonably believe that you did not give us the instruction;
c) It might cause us to act contrary to law, regulation, code of practice, court order or 
other duty which applies to us.
The instruction was received from the attorneys. And while I accept they had the power to 
give that instruction, it wasnt directly from Mrs S. So, Nationwide thought it appropriate to 
verify and clarify the circumstances of the instruction. In particular, they wanted to ensure 
Mrs Ss funds wouldnt be disadvantaged either from a security perspective or in terms of the 
return they would receive. 
As well as having a duty of care towards Mrs S, I believe the account terms allow Nationwide 
to take the action they did here where they have concerns about an account or transaction. 
And while I realise the estate may not agree; overall, I think their actions were fair, 
reasonable and proportionate. A temporary block on the account was proportionate and in 
the interests of protecting Mrs Ss funds while Nationwide looked into things.Nationwide have agreed their communication couldve been better. And while Ive not been 
able to verify some of the information and advice the attorneys say they were given, I think 
Nationwides compensation offer of £75 feels fair here. Nationwide have confirmed their offer 
still stands should they wish to accept it. And I also understand the savings account funds 
have since been transferred as requested.
Having considered all the information available, I cant reasonably conclude that Nationwide 
did anything wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably. And while I accept the estate will be 
disappointed, I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr H and the estate of Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and the 
estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman