DRN-1274349
 
The complaint
Ms B complains that U K Insurance Limited cancelled her motor insurance policy and later 
reinstated it and took an additional premium without her authority. She wants a refund of the 
additional premium, £1,000 compensation, records of the cancellation removed and a letter 
saying the policy had been cancelled in error.
What happened
Ms B took out a policy with UKI and it asked for proof of her No Claims Discount (NCD) 
entitlement. Ms B tried to provide this, but she couldnt obtain what was required by UKI 
within its timescale. UKIs call handler told her that her policy wouldnt be cancelled. But it 
was. UKI realised the error and reinstated the policy but it charged Ms B an additional 
premium for having no years NCD. UKI apologised and paid Ms B £100 compensation for 
cancelling her policy and £100 further compensation for reinstating it without her authority. 
But Ms B was unhappy with this. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had 
unfairly cancelled the policy and then reinstated it. So he thought it was unfair for Ms B to 
have a cancellation marker against her name. But Ms B had made a claim on the policy and 
this was still open. So he thought Ms B was entitled to a pro-rata refund of the premium if 
she cancelled the policy when the complaint was closed. 
The investigator thought UKIs communication with Ms B had been poor. He thought its 
errors had caused her significant stress. So, to put things right, he thought UKI should pay 
Ms B an additional £150 compensation for her trouble and upset. He also thought UKI 
should remove records of the unfair cancellation from any databases and provide a letter 
saying she isnt required to declare the cancellation to future insurers.
Ms B replied that if shed been caught driving without insurance her career would have been 
significantly affected. She thought UKI should pay her an additional £600 to £700 for the 
stress caused her. She also told us that UKI had said it would provide her with a full refund 
of her premium from the date it was cancelled onwards. 
UKI replied that the cancellation hadnt been recorded on any internal or external databases. 
It said that it wouldnt agree to provide a letter about the cancellation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms B made genuine efforts to provide the required proof of her NCD to UKI. 
This was gained whilst she had a company car and UKI wanted proof that she was the cars 
sole driver in this time. The company car insurer couldnt provide this and so the cancellation 
process was invoked. But UKIs call handler told Ms B that her policy wouldnt be cancelled. Unfortunately, he didnt record this on the file and the process continued. So I think the 
policy was cancelled in error. 
UKI accepts that it cancelled Ms Bs policy in error and then reinstated it without her 
authority. Its agreed that its communication with Ms B was poor. When a business makes 
mistakes we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as its possible to do so. We 
also consider the impact the errors had on the consumer. 
Ms B was driving whilst uninsured for four days. She was concerned that this could have 
endangered her and other drivers and affected her career. Fortunately, nothing untoward 
occurred in this time and Ms B wasnt stopped by the police for driving whilst uninsured. As 
the policy had been cancelled in error, wed expect UKI to indemnify Ms B if anything 
untoward had occurred. I cant consider potential losses, only actual ones. So I cant say that 
UKI should compensate Ms B for driving whilst uninsured for four days.
When it realised its error, UKI reinstated the policy with an additional premium to take into 
account the lack of proof of NCD. It said it couldnt refund this as Ms B had made a claim on 
the policy and it was still open. I think that was fair and reasonable.
The claim has now been closed. Ms B has cancelled the policy and has been provided with 
a pro rata refund taking into account her time on cover. Ms B told us that she understood 
that she would receive a full refund. But I havent seen evidence to show this. I think a pro 
rata refund is fair and reasonable as Ms B made use of the policy. I note that UKI didnt 
charge Ms B a cancellation fee, which I think was fair. 
UKI has told us that the cancellation isnt recorded on any internal or external databases. I 
think thats fair and reasonable. But Ms B needs assurance that she neednt declare the 
cancellation to future insurers. Shes already done so and incurred an increased premium. 
So I think UKI should provide her with a letter stating that she neednt declare a cancellation 
to future insurers. 
UKI has offered Ms B £200 compensation in total for the trouble and upset caused by its 
errors. But I agree with the investigator that this isnt sufficient in the circumstances. I can 
see that Ms B was caused significant stress and anxiety by the cancellation of her policy and 
by its reinstatement without her authorisation. She didnt receive promised call backs and 
had to spend a considerable amount of time on hold or repeating herself in dealing with the 
problems. 
I think an additional £150 compensation for the distress this caused would be fair and 
reasonable. I can understand that Ms B feels that further compensation is warranted. But I 
think an additional £150 is in keeping with what Id award in similar situations.  
Putting things right
To put things right for Ms B, I think UKI should:
Provide Ms B with a letter stating that she doesnt need to declare a cancellation to 
future insurers.
Pay Ms B £350 in total (£150 in addition to what it has already offered) compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to provide Ms B with the compensation set about above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman