DRN-4416183
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt refunded the 
premiums they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. 
For ease, any reference to IPA also includes its agents.
What happened
On 9 February 2023, Mr and Mrs M purchased a holiday and at the same time chose to take 
out a travel insurance policy with IPA. The policy was to cover a European trip for 10 days 
departing in mid-March 2023. 
Mr and Mrs M contacted IPA on 27 February 2023 to inform them that they hadnt received 
their insurance documents yet. IPA resent the insurance documents on 1 March 2023. 
This led to Mr and Mrs M finding their initial insurance documents in the spam folder of their 
email inbox. Mr and Mrs M asked IPA to cancel their policy later on the 1 March 2023 
sighting an incorrect date of birth, no medical declarations and already having annual travel 
insurance through their property insurance. 
IPA declined to refund any premiums as they stated the 14-day cancellation period had 
passed. As a result, under the policy terms and conditions, no refund was required. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with this response as they had asked to cancel the policy within 
14 days of becoming aware they had the policy terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs M were 
also unhappy with the time it took IPA to acknowledge and respond to their complaint. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think IPA had done anything wrong. 
They thought that IPA had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs M 
didnt agree as although they werent disputing the policy had a 14-day cooling off period, 
they think it should have started when they realised they had the policy documents. 
They also said they didnt realise they had bought a policy through IPA. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant regulators rules, a consumer has a right to cancel an insurance policy, 
without penalty, and without giving any reason within 14 days. The rules set out that the start 
of the cancellation period begins either from the day of the conclusion of the contract or the 
day on which the consumer receives their contractual terms and conditions if later. However, 
a firm may voluntarily provide longer or additional cancellation rights. 
Looking at the terms and conditions relevant to the policy Mr and Mrs M took out, the 
cancellation period was as follows: 
You are free to cancel this policy at any time. If you wish to cancel within 14 days of the 
policy start date, or the receipt of the policy documents whichever is later, you may do so by 
contacting [holiday provider] on [phone number] for a full refund providing you have not 
travelled and no claim has been made. 
Depending on when you cancel your policy, the following premium refunds will be made: 
- Within 14 days of policy issue: Full refund providing you have not travelled, made a 
claim or intend to make a claim.
- Outside 14 days of policy issue: No refund available. 
Looking at the policy terms above, Im satisfied that they meet the minimum standard of the 
regulators rules. 
Whilst I accept that Mr and Mrs M may not have realised they had the policy documents until 
1 March 2023, Ive seen evidence to show that they received them on 9 February 2023. 
As set out in both the terms and conditions and the regulators rules above, the 14-day 
cooling off period begins from when the documents are received, not from when the 
consumer realises theyve received them. This means that the 14-day cancellation period 
ended on 23 February 2023. This was before Mr and Mrs M first contacted IPA about the 
policy. As such, I dont think IPA has done anything wrong in not offering Mr and Mrs M a 
refund of their premiums. 
Mr and Mrs M have said that they didnt realise theyd bought a policy. However, this 
contradicts the first email they sent to IPA on 27 February 2023. In this email, they raised the 
following: 
I have not received any notification regarding my travel insurance and am unsure whether 
this has went through. I am now questioning whether or not I added this to my holiday 
booking 
The above indicates that they intended and wanted to take out the policy. This doesnt 
change my above outcome. 
I can see Mr and Mrs M raise issues about IPAs complaints handling. Complaint handling 
isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the law, if the 
complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into things. Where 
complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we can take into account 
complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. In this case, I cant say 
the issues which Mr and Mrs M raise about the complaints handling are an extension of the 
issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint handling part of 
the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Anthony MullinsOmbudsman