DRN-1642161
 
The complaint
Mrs T complains that an international transfer request she made through Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide) wasnt completed and the amount returned to her reduced 
because of exchange rate differences.  She would like this to be reimbursed.
What happened
Mrs T had used her Nationwide current account to send funds to a foreign charity previously. 
In April 2019 she visited her branch to send a further amount. She completed the 
documentation provided by Nationwide, using the same bank details as before and paid the 
£20 fee. A few days later she noticed a credit to her account that was £1,455.55 less than 
the amount transferred. She contacted Nationwide and was advised the transfer had been 
returned. It wasnt clear why.
Mrs T complained to Nationwide. It said the amount returned was lower because of changes 
in the exchange rate between the funds being sent and being returned. It said the funds had 
been correctly sent but were rejected by the other bank as unable to cover funds. It said it 
hadnt made an error and Mrs T would need to contact the foreign bank about this.
Mrs T referred her complaint to our service. She said she didnt know what Nationwide 
meant by unable to cover funds and when shed queried it Nationwide couldnt explain it 
either.
Our investigator looked into it. She raised various queries about the information required to 
make a successful overseas payment as several banks can be involved in the process. It 
looked like there was a problem with some of the information between the banks. Nationwide 
said making sure certain information was correct was Mrs T responsibility. Our investigator 
said this wasnt clear in the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the account and wasnt 
reasonable. 
She upheld the complaint and said Nationwide should put this right by covering the loss, 
paying interest, reimbursing the bank charge and paying £200 compensation for the trouble 
and upset Mrs T had suffered.
Nationwide disagreed. It made some points about the process and other banks involved 
saying the charitys bank was at fault for not updating changes with other banks. It said it 
had been ten months since Mrs T had made a transfer and it expected customer to check 
the details before sending a significant amount.
Our investigator disagreed. She said Nationwide was ultimately responsible for making the 
payment. 
The charitys bank subsequently emailed Mrs T saying it hadnt changed any of its details.
As Nationwide doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint.
The bank processes here are complicated and have been considered thoroughly by our 
investigator and both parties know the details. Mrs T paid a fee for the service, and provided 
the information asked for by Nationwide who didnt raise any queries.
Several banks were involved in the process and to some extent they blame each other for 
the failure of the transaction. Nationwide used its bank (HSBC) to complete the currency 
exchange and to send the funds. There was a problem and HSBC raised a query with one of 
the other banks involved, apparently without response. It then converted the funds back to 
Sterling before returning them to Nationwide. This exchange generated the loss. 
As Nationwides own records state, it didnt understand why the transfer was returned. I think 
expecting the customer to have more knowledge than the banks is unreasonable. If 
something unusual happened with the transfer, as is suggested, I think the banks involved 
might have reverted back to Mrs T before carrying out the exchange back to Sterling. This 
might have enabled the issue to have been resolved and the loss avoided. 
I think the T&Cs of the account support this. These set out the information needed to make 
an international payment and say:
If we need anything else we will ask you at the time.
 
Mrs T was arranging this in branch and she provided the same details that had been used 
successfully previously, which the charitys bank say were unchanged. 
 
The T&Cs also say:
Liability for incorrect payments
64. If you ask us to make a payment to another person and the payment is not made 
properly or the person you are paying does not receive it, we will investigate what went 
wrong if you ask us, and will refund the amount of the transaction and any charges or 
interest you paid, and pay you any interest we would have paid on that amount, unless:
a) we can show that the payment was received by the recipients bank; or
b) you provided us with incorrect payment details. In this case, we are not responsible but 
if you ask us, we will make reasonable efforts to recover the payment and will tell you 
the outcome (we may charge our reasonable costs for doing so). 
In this case, for whatever reason the payment wasnt made properly. It wasnt received by 
the charitys bank and there is no evidence the details that Mrs T was asked to provide were 
incorrect. So I think it is fair and reasonable that Nationwide should refund the amount of the 
transaction and charges involved. As Mrs T had to bring a complaint to get the problem 
resolved I think she has suffered more trouble and upset than she should have and should 
be paid £200 compensation for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building Society. I direct Nationwide Building Society to reimburse Mrs Ts loss of £1,455.55, the fee of £20 
and to pay her interest on both at the rate of 8% p.a. simple from 7 May 2019 to the date of 
payment if Mrs T accepts my decision. 
I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs T £200 in compensation for her trouble and 
upset. 
Nationwide Building Society must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mrs T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Nationwide Building Society considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs T a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman