DRN-3091982
The complaint
Miss S says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) irresponsibly lent to her.  
What happened
This complaint is about two high cost credit loans ELL provided to Miss S from 
November 2017. Miss S borrowing history is as follows:
Loan 
numberStart date Loan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentEnd date
1 30/11/2017 1,500 24 months 167.48 20/07/2018
2 20/07/2018 2,500 30 months 226.83
Our adjudicator upheld Miss S complaint in part and thought loan 2 shouldnt have 
been given but thought ELL wasnt wrong to lend loan 1. ELL disagreed and the 
complaint was passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
- including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Miss S complaint.
Miss S hasnt disagreed with the adjudicators finding on loan 1 and so there isnt a 
continuing dispute and so I have focused on giving my decision for loan 2. Having carefully 
thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions that I need to 
answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss S complaint. These two questions 
are:
1. Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss S would be able to repay loan 2 without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss S wouldve been able 
to do so?
2. Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S would 
be able to repay loan 2 without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
ELL provided loan 2 while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required ELL to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss S ability to make the repayments under 
this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss S. In practice this meant 
that ELL had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Miss S 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss S. Checks 
also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications 
of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are 
seeking. Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for 
different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments 
for an extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications 
of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that loan 1 should be upheld and neither Miss S nor 
her representative have disputed this. Ive looked at the circumstances around the 
lending of loan 1, and I agree that ELL wasnt wrong to lend that loan.
For loan 2, ELL has provided evidence to show that it searched Miss Ss credit file It also 
says it used the statistics from the ONS to work out Miss S living costs. ELL also says it 
saw her bank statements for the month before the loan was approved, but I havent seen 
copies of these bank statements from ELL. However, Miss S has provided copies of her bank statement from the time.
ELL lent on the basis that Miss Ss income was around £1,875, her living costs including 
her housing were around £957 and her credit commitments including the repayment for 
this loan was around £730.
I think ELLs checks went far enough as I think the checks were sufficient for it to 
understand Miss S financial circumstances at the time.
Was the lending decision fair?
Ive now gone on to think about whether it made a fair lending decision. From what I can 
see there were a number of concerning results from ELLs checks. Firstly, Miss S had a 
number of accounts on her credit file that showed she was struggling to manage her credit, 
she had a CCJ and appeared to have a number of her accounts with a debt collector. While 
I can see that most of these were on her credit file at the time of loan 1, Im conscious that 
between loans 1 and 2 her debt burden had also risen. So, along with these accounts that 
Miss S had been unable to keep up with payments, shed taken out another high cost loan 
with a different lender. Also, Miss S was approaching ELL for a second loan, for a larger 
amount and over a longer period of time and less than half way through repaying her first 
loan.
And so although this loan looks affordable as ELLs calculation shows that Miss S 
had sufficient disposable income, I think ELL ought to have known that she likely had 
wider financial issues. Im also mindful that Miss S was due to pay a significant 
portion of her income towards her credit commitments. 
Taking all these factors together, the lending was unsustainable for Miss S and ELL 
shouldnt have been lending to her.
Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in some other 
way. So I dont think ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in some other 
way.
As ELL has lent to Miss S when it shouldnt have, and I think shes lost out and so it needs 
to put things right.
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
remove all interest and charges applied to loan 2;
treat all payments made by Miss S as payments towards the capital amount of
£2,500;
if this results in an overpayment pay interest of 8% simple a year on any 
overpayments from the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of 
settlement;
if theres still a balance outstanding, ELL should come to a suitable 
repayment arrangement with Miss S.
remove any negative information about loan 2 from Miss S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Miss S a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss S complaint. Everyday 
Lending Limited should out things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman