DRN-1366773
The complaint
Mr T complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
Mr T was given five loans by Cashfloat between March 2015 and February 2016. Each of 
the loans was due to be repaid in monthly instalments over periods of between one and four 
months. Mr T appears to have faced some problems repaying the last loan but all of the 
loans have now been fully repaid. A summary of Mr Ts borrowing from Cashfloat is as 
follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 31/03/2015 30/04/2015 £   300
2 03/06/2015 28/08/2015 £   400
3 31/08/2015 16/10/2015 £   400
4 18/12/2015 08/02/2016 £   800
5 08/02/2016 02/03/2018 £   700
Mr Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think Cashfloat 
had been wrong to give the first two loans to Mr T. But she didnt think the remaining loans 
should have been agreed. So she asked Cashfloat to pay Mr T some compensation.
Cashfloat didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr T accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr T could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Cashfloat did some checks before it lent to Mr T. It asked him for details of his income, and 
his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive seen the 
outcome of those checks and I will consider the results later in this decision.
I think that the checks Cashfloat did before agreeing the first two loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Mr T needed to repay were relatively small compared with the disposable 
income hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Cashfloat to ask him for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first two loans. And there 
was nothing in the other information Cashfloat gathered, such as the results of its credit 
checks, that suggested Mr T might struggle to repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
The credit checks that Cashfloat did before the remaining loans suggested that Mr T was 
facing serious problems managing his money. At the time he asked for loan 3 Mr T already 
had at least three other short term loans outstanding. And that position continued over the 
rest of the time he was borrowing from Cashfloat. I think it should have been clear to the 
lender, from the number of open and closed loans showing on Mr Ts credit check, that it 
was most likely he was borrowing to support his day to day living costs and using new 
borrowing to repay previous loans. So I dont think Cashfloat should have agreed to give 
loans 3 to 5 to Mr T.I also think that, by looking at the overall pattern of its lending history with Mr T Cashfloat 
should reasonably have seen that further lending at the time of loan 5 was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that it shouldnt provide loan 5 for 
that reason either.
By that time Mr T had been borrowing from Cashfloat, with barely any break, for almost a 
year. I dont think the two month gap between loans 3 and 4 should have given Cashfloat 
any confidence about the stability of Mr Ts finances. And the amount he was now borrowing 
was significantly larger than his initial loans. Mr T asked for loan 5 on the same day that he 
repaid loan 4 more than two months early. I think the nature of repaying a loan early, and 
then borrowing a similar amount on the same day should have indicated to Cashfloat that 
Mr T was most likely having significant problems managing his money. Cashfloat ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr T was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ts indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr T lost out when Cashfloat gave him loan 5 because this loan had the effect of 
unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit intended for 
short-term use over an extended period of time. The length of time hed been borrowing was 
likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ts ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So in summary I think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to give the first two loans to Mr T. But 
I dont think Cashfloat should have agreed to lend the remaining loans to him. Cashfloat 
needs to pay Mr T some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think Cashfloat should have agreed to lend to Mr T after, and including, the loan that 
he took on 31 August 2015 (loan 3). So Cashfloat should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr T paid on loans 3 to 5 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to loans 3 
and 4
The length of time Mr T had been borrowing before loan 5 means any information 
recorded about that loan is adverse. So all entries about loan 5 should be removed 
from Mr Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ts complaint and direct Western Circle Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman