DRN-2954303
The complaint
Mrs J complains about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) handled her home insurance claim.
 
References to Mrs J may include her husband, Mr J, who is acting as her representative. 
Similarly, references to QIC may include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs J holds home insurance underwritten by QIC. In March 2020, she raised an escape of 
water claim as their bath had cracked, causing damage to the bathroom and kitchen. 
Around a week later, QIC told Mrs J it couldnt send a surveyor for two weeks due to recent 
floods and storms affecting their availability. It suggested that Mrs J send pictures of the 
damage, so it could use those to validate the claim.
Based on these photographs, QIC offered a cash settlement. But Mrs J was unhappy with 
the amount. She got her own quote for repairing the damage, which she submitted to QIC 
in mid-May 2020. The following day, she called and explained there had been further 
damage. There was more staining and a crack in the ceiling. QIC said her quote was being 
reviewed and she could submit pictures of any further damage.
A few days later, QIC agreed to match the quote Mrs J had submitted (minus the excess). 
She asked about the further damage. It said that its contractors estimate, including the 
additional damage, was less than her quote excluding this. It said it would meet her quote, 
but would consider increasing this if she provided a quote for the additional damage. Or it 
could send out its contractors to do the work. Mrs J wasnt happy with the call or offer, so 
raised a complaint. She said she was constantly having to chase QIC, and that the claim 
delays were affecting her and her family.
Following this, Mrs J provided a further quote in June 2020 and QIC agreed to increase its 
settlement to match this. In its final response to the complaint, it said it had paid more than 
it was obliged to as it had matched Mrs Js estimates when its liability was capped at what 
its own contractors was charged. Mrs J referred the matter to our service. She said her 
family had been left in a house without proper washing facilities, and theyd had to travel to 
Mr Js parents house to wash. She also said she had to keep chasing up QIC.
QIC told our investigator that, according to its report to assess the damage, Mrs J had 
another bathroom in her home. But she sent evidence proving that was incorrect. QIC had 
relied on online information that actually related to another property.
Ultimately, the investigator recommended that QIC should pay Mrs J: £1,280 for her travel 
costs to access washing facilities; anything remaining from the quotations it had accepted; 
plus £400 compensation.
In response, Mrs J said she also wanted QIC to cover the costs incurred by Mr Js parents. 
QIC said it would only offer £400 compensation, asserting that:
Mrs J failed to mitigate her losses as she could have accepted the initial cash 
settlement and used that to make the washing facilities useable. It was her choice 
to spend time getting her own quote.
It hasnt seen evidence of her travel costs.
At no point during the claim did Mrs J raise that she was making trips to 
access bathing facilities, or that she didnt have those facilities at her home.
I then issued my provisional decision in July 2021, explaining I was minded to award:
Anything outstanding from the agreed damage settlement of £1,950, less the £350 
excess (so £1,600 in total);
£10 per day for the reasonable additional travel costs incurred whilst the property 
was uninhabitable from 7 March up to and including 30 May 2020
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Both sides have confirmed that they have nothing to add, so the case has been 
returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J has confirmed that she is happy with the provisional decision, and QIC has confirmed 
that it has nothing further to add. I therefore see no reason to change my findings from my 
provisional decision. Ive set these out again here: 
Settlement for the damage
QIC has accepted Mrs Js accidental damage claim. So I dont need to comment further 
on whether the claim should be met; thats not in dispute. What Im considering is whether 
the claim has been considered and handled fairly.
As a starting point, Ive checked what the terms and conditions of the policy say about how 
QIC will settle the claim:
When settling your claim, if we decide that we can offer rebuilding work, repairs or 
replacements, we will ask you to choose one of the following options.
i)We will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to carry 
out the rebuilding work, repairs or replacements.
ii)We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost us 
to use our preferred contractor.
If we cannot offer rebuilding work, repairs or replacements (as defined by us) 
through our preferred contractor, we will pay fair and reasonable costs to have the 
work carried out by your chosen supplier
Mrs J provided photographs of the damage on 20 March 2020. QIC used these to offer a 
cash settlement, based on its contractors estimate, on 27 March 2020. But Mrs J says that, 
at that point, QIC couldnt provide a contractor to do the repairs. Thats supported by a call 
Ive listened to from 19 May 2020, in which QIC confirmed that it couldnt provide a 
contractor. On balance, I accept that QIC couldnt offer to do the repairs.In line with the terms, Mrs J was therefore entitled to seek her own supplier  and QIC would 
pay those costs, rather than limiting this to what its own contractor would charge, so long as 
they were deemed fair and reasonable.
Mrs J sought her own quote and submitted this on 18 May 2020. The following day, she 
reported that there was further damage. QIC said she could submit pictures of this, or it 
might need further evidence such as a quote.
On 22 May 2020, QIC said that, using her photographs, the figure estimated by its 
contractors for both the original and newer damage was less than the quote for the initial 
damage shed provided. So instead it would meet the higher quote shed submitted. 
During this call, it also said it had contractors available in the area who could carry out the 
works.
Mrs J sought her own quote for the further damage and submitted this on 15 June 2020. 
This was accepted a few days later. Shes told us she had the work completed the 
following month.
As QIC accepted Mrs Js quotes, Im satisfied this fairly meets its obligations under the 
policy. I understand the settlement wasnt paid initially, but it appears this was because
Mrs J didnt want to take payment until the complaint was resolved, not because QIC 
refused to pay. I dont consider it fair to expect QIC to pay interest for loss of use of funds, 
when it was willing to make payment sooner.
I also understand that, when payment was made, a small sum (~£7) was missed off. As 
our investigator advised, this should now be paid if its still outstanding. Overall, Im 
planning on directing QIC to pay anything remaining of the £1,950 agreed for the damage, 
less the excess (which, given the claim type, I understand to be £350).
Whilst Mrs J wants the excess to be waived, this is the un-insured amount shes agreed to 
pay directly in the event of a claim. So Im not planning on directing QIC to waive this. But 
as Ill go on to address below, Ive considered whether QIC needs to do anything else to 
settle the claim or her complaint.
Alternative accommodation
As well as cover for the damage, Mrs Js policy provides alternative accommodation cover 
for her and her family if:
you cannot stay in your home because your home has become unfit for living in 
following loss or damage that is insured by this section.
Its been established that the damage was insured. So Ive considered whether alternative 
accommodation should have been offered. Without a bath or shower, I think its reasonable 
to conclude that the home was lacking basic washing facilities and so was unfit for living 
due to the damage. This case for this is strengthened in the context of Mrs Js family, which 
includes two children, one of whom has autism. Mrs J has explained how important it was 
for him to (as far as possible) maintain his usual bathing/washing routine.Whilst QIC say Mrs J didnt flag up their lack of facilities, or the fact they were travelling to 
another home to wash, Im conscious that it completed a virtual report which erroneously 
concluded that they had another working bathroom in their home. Im also conscious that 
policyholders wont always know exactly what theyre entitled to. Unprompted, Mrs J 
probably didnt know the relevance of mentioning that they were travelling to access 
facilities elsewhere. My understanding is they may have been wary about this (without 
knowing the relevance) due to pandemic restrictions in place at that time  even though 
they were travelling to access necessary help.
If QIC hadnt made an error in its report when assessing the damage, I consider that it likely 
would  and should  have offered alternative accommodation cover, due to the lack of 
washing facilities. So it would likely have either incurred alternative accommodation costs 
or, if Mrs J and her family had opted to stay at home, paid a disturbance allowance for 
reasonable additional costs incurred. Such as reasonable travel costs to access washing 
facilities.
In this case, Mrs J says they were making daily round trips of 40 miles to Mr Js parents to 
use their washing facilities. She thinks QIC should therefore cover this, at a rate of £0.25 
per mile, as well as paying for the wear this caused their car and her parents-in-laws costs.
As our investigator has explained, wed only expect QIC to pay for reasonable additional 
costs incurred by Mrs J and her family  as that is who is covered for alternative 
accommodation, in line with the terms of the policy. Im also not persuaded it would be fair 
to direct QIC to pay an additional amount for wear to their car. Its unclear how this could 
be attributed to the additional travel compared to their general use. And the £0.25 per mile 
figure Mrs J has proposed comes from a government allowance scheme which is also 
intended to cover the overall impact/cost of use, rather than solely covering petrol costs.
There is an industry standard that, as it can be difficult and time consuming to 
evidence additional everyday expenses, an allowance can be paid instead to cover a 
reasonable estimate of costs. That may be £10 per day for adults, and £5 per day for 
children. As Mrs Js household consists of two adults and two children, the allowance 
could be £30 per day. But instead, excluding the costs Ive deemed not to be covered, 
Mrs J is asking for an allowance to cover a round trip of 40 miles per day, at £0.25 per 
mile. That comes to £10 per day. I consider this a reasonable estimate for her 
additional costs. So I think QIC should pay her £10 per day as a disturbance 
allowance, due to its failure to offer alternative accommodation.
Next, Ive considered over what period QIC should pay this allowance. From what Ive been 
told, the damage wasnt repaired to make the home habitable until July 2020. But Im 
conscious that, prior to this, QIC had already offered to send a contractor to do the works in 
May 2020. This is in addition to increasing the settlement in June 2020, once she provided 
further evidence of the additional damage (which, from what shes told us, was already 
evident when she provided the original quotation).
The earliest evidence Ive found of QIC confirming it could provide contractors to do the 
works is 22 May 2020. Its contractors have also advised that it would have taken two to 
three days to complete the works. I appreciate that Mrs J instead opted to arrange the 
repairs herself, as well as her reasons for this. But Im minded to conclude that it would be 
unfair to expect QIC to keep paying this allowance beyond the point at which it could have 
made the home habitable, thereby preventing further costs from being incurred. Based on 
what Ive seen, Ive no reason to conclude that the contractors were unprofessional and 
unsuitable, even if Mrs J was unhappy with the claim handlers.I cant know for sure how long it would have taken for QIC to book contractors, and for 
them to complete the repairs. In the circumstances, I consider it reasonable to expect QIC 
to pay a disturbance allowance of £10 per day from 7 March 2020 (which is when the 
house became uninhabitable due to the damage), up to and including 30 May 2020 (by 
which point it seems reasonable to conclude that QIC could have arranged and completed 
the repairs). Please note, my provisional decision said this would come to £860  but, as 
confirmed following this, it will come to £850. 
Compensation
Mrs J says QIC communicated with her poorly, leaving her to chase things up, and was rude 
over the phone. Ive considered whether QICs errors caused her distress and inconvenience 
 and if so, what level of compensation would be fair to address this.
Whilst Mrs J did call to chase up responses from QIC, Im conscious that it did largely 
progress the claim and get back to her within a reasonable timeframe. It put forward the 
option of using photographs to save time due to their surveyors being booked for two 
weeks. And it considered and accepted her information promptly. Its reasonable that it 
would need some time to consider the quotations/damage. And I cant fairly say its at fault 
for the time taken for Mrs J to get her own quotes.
That said, I do think the service provided was, on occasion, poor. For example, listening to 
a call between Mrs Js husband and QIC on 22 May 2020, I found that the call handler 
wasnt as professional and helpful as Id expect. Mr J said that he felt patronised, and from 
listening to the call I can understand why. This was in the context of them facing a difficult 
living situation. Whilst QIC isnt at fault for the damage itself, it did  in my view  
exacerbate the impact on Mrs Js family by failing to identify their lack of facilities and offer 
appropriate support for this. And the upset and stress this caused is separate to the 
additional costs incurred as a result.
Overall, Im minded to award Mrs J £150 compensation. Im satisfied this is a fair reflection 
of the distress and inconvenience caused by QICs errors in relation to this claim.
Putting things right
As no further points or evidence have been submitted following my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to depart from the principles set out in my provisional findings on how QIC 
Europe Ltd should put things right. I therefore direct it to pay Mrs J:
Anything outstanding from the agreed damage settlement of £1,950, less the £350 
excess (so £1,600 in total);
£850 for the reasonable additional travel costs incurred whilst the property was 
uninhabitable; and
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct QIC 
Europe Ltd to put things right in the way Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Rachel LoughlinOmbudsman