DRN-3126947
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Alex Cox trading as M.A.S. Mortgages (Alex Cox.) mis-sold
them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage in 2007. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage in December 2007, which was repayable over a 15-year
term. At the same time, they bought a PPI policy  a single premium policy where the upfront
cost was added to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage. The policy had a term of five years and the
single premium was £3,150 before the addition of interest. The policy was set up on a 70/30
benefit split in favour of Mr R.
At the time of the sale both Mr and Mrs R were employed  Mrs R said she was entitled to
12 months full sick pay and Mr R said he wasnt entitled to any enhanced sick or
redundancy pay. They indicated they had savings of at least six months of their pay and
both were in good health at the time.
In 2011 Mr and Mrs R first raised a complaint with Alex Cox that their PPI was mis-sold. Alex
Cox responded saying that it didnt agree and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R
contacted Alex Cox again in 2019 about their complaint and Alex Cox said it had already
dealt with the complaint in 2011 and had nothing further to say.
Mr and Mrs R subsequently brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
We considered if we could look at this complaint as it had first been raised with Alex Cox in
2011. An ombudsman issued a decision saying there were reasons why we could still
consider this complaint, despite the time since it was first raised with the business - so it was
within our jurisdiction.
We then considered the facts of the complaint to determine if the PPI policy had been mis-
sold. And our adjudicator recommended that the mis-sale complaint should be upheld.
Alex Cox responded saying it was willing to offer £900 to settle the complaint in line with
DISP App 3.71. This relates to offers of alternative redress, which can be made when there
is evidence to show the consumer would have taken out a regular premium policy, if offered,
rather than the single premium that was bought. Alex Cox didnt say why alternative redress
was appropriate in this case or how it had arrived at a figure of £900  but in summary said it
was made to settle the complaint and move on.
I issued my provisional decision of October 2021 in which I said intended to uphold the 
complaint because I didnt think a single premium PPI policy was suitable in the 
circumstances. But I said that I thought a regular premium policy was suitable, so I intended 
1 Dispute Resolution Rules  Appendix 3 (Handling PPI complaints) can be found in the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook
to make an award in Mr and Mrs Rs favour effectively paying them the difference between 
what they paid and what they would have paid had things happened as they should have.
Both Alex Cox and Mr and Mrs R said they accepted my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im mindful that both parties have accepted my provisional decision, for the sake of 
completeness I think its appropriate in the circumstances to issue my final decision. And my 
decision is that I uphold this complaint and made an award in favour of Mr and Mrs R. My 
reasons are set out below.
Did Mr and Mrs R have a choice about taking out PPI?
Alex Cox had to make it clear that PPI was optional and gain Mr and Mrs Rs explicit consent
to proceed. And I think the evidence suggests this happened. Alex Cox has provided some
of the paperwork from the time of the sale including a document titled Accident, Sickness &
Unemployment Cover Protection. Looking at this I can see the form asked Mr and Mrs R to
tick one of three boxes  Option 1 a regular premium PPI policy, Option 2 a single premium
PPI policy or Option 3 no cover. And Option 2 is ticked.
Mr and Mrs R also signed this form, so taking everything into account I think Mr and Mrs R
chose to take out PPI and likely did so without undue pressure.
Did Alex Cox provide advice and recommend PPI?
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Alex Cox advised Mr and Mrs R to take out PPI. But in
any event, while not all of the pages are now available, it appears Alex Cox completed a
fact-find document (20 plus pages) presumably recording detailed information about Mr and
Mrs R circumstances to ascertain their demands and needs. So I think this was an advised
sale.
This means Alex Cox had to ensure PPI was right or suitable for Mr and Mrs R taking
account of their needs and circumstances at the time. They also had to provide enough clear
and timely information about the policy so that Mr and Mrs R could decide whether to go
ahead with the recommendation or not.
Was PPI suitable  did Mr and Mrs R have a need for cover?
Unfortunately, because Alex Cox no longer has a full copy of the fact-find document
completed at the time of the sale, I havent got a record of Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at
the time. But I do know that Mr and Mrs R were taking on a mortgage, which required them
to make a regular monthly payment of around £550.
Mr R has told us that he wasnt entitled to any enhanced sick pay and any redundancy pay
would be at the statutory rate. So while I dont know Mr Rs annual income or whether he
was the main wage earner for example, given the mortgage was in joint names I think it is 
reasonable to assume that he was contributing to the mortgage repayment. 
As such I think Mr and Mrs R would have come under some financial strain if Mr R was 
unable to work for an extended period of time or if he was made unemployed. There was 
nothing about Mr Rs employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for him to make a claim and he was in good health at the time. So I think, in principle Mr R had a need 
for cover.
Mrs R was also in good health and there wasnt anything about her employment or
occupation which might have made it problematic for her to make a claim. She told us she
was entitled to full sick pay for 12 months and so she didnt need cover. But I dont think her 
sick pay entitlement was at that level. 
Based on my understanding of the benefits provided by Mrs Rs employer, her sick pay was 
more likely payable at half pay for a period  so six months at full pay followed by six months 
at half-pay. Because of this, I also think Mrs R had a need for cover. If she was unable to 
work through accident or sickness for an extended period, her income would reduce. So a 
policy that would pay out for up to 12 months per claim would have been of use to both Mr 
and Mrs R and helped them out at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain 
time.
Ive also not seen anything to persuade me that a policy arranged on a 70/30 benefit split in
favour of Mr R was unsuitable or inappropriate. I say this because Mr R didnt have any
enhanced employee benefits and so the financial impact of Mr R being unable to work would
have been more immediate. So a greater proportion of the policys monthly benefit would
have been needed in this case. Whereas in Mrs Rs case, because of her sick pay 
entitlement the impact wouldnt have been so immediate  therefore a lower proportion of 
the benefit in favour of Mrs R wasnt in my view inappropriate.
So based on what I think Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances likely were at the time, I think they 
had a need for cover and the principle of recommending PPI to them to protect
their mortgage payments wasnt wrong.
Was the recommendation Alex Cox made suitable for Mr and Mrs R?
Despite my finding that Mr and Mrs R likely had a need for cover, I dont think the
recommendation Alex Cox made to them to take out a single premium policy to protect their
mortgage was suitable  I dont think they acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs R.
I say this because the policy recommended had a term of five years  so Mr and Mrs R
could only claim on the policy for the first five years of their mortgage term. But their
mortgage had a term of 15 years, which meant that their mortgage payments wouldnt be
protected by this policy for the remaining 10-year term. And this is despite the fact that Mr
and Mrs R would continue to pay for the policy for the remaining term of their mortgage. So
there is a term mis-match between Mr and Mrs Rs PPI and their mortgage.
Ive not seen anything to persuade me why a policy with a five-year term was suitable  Mr
and Mrs R werent going to reach retirement age at this point for example, and Ive not seen
any evidence to show or suggest they had plans to stop working and so wouldnt have a
need for cover after five years.
Ive also not seen anything to show that Mr and Mrs R were properly advised and informed
about the implications of taking out a single premium policy given the term mis-match  i.e. 
that if they wanted to continue protection for their mortgage payments after five years they would have to take out and pay for another policy while continuing to pay for the old policy, 
so that in the long term this would be an expensive way to fund cover; or that if either of 
them contracted an illness or disease during the five years of cover this wouldnt typically be 
covered by a new policy because it would likely be deemed a pre-existing medical condition.
I accept that Mr and Mrs R were given some information to indicate they were told that the
single premium would attract interest over the full term of the mortgage. And another
document referred to the term of the policy being five years. But it was for Alex Cox to
properly advise and inform Mr and Mrs R  it wasnt for Mr and Mrs R to decide for
themselves if the policy was right for them. I think Mr and Mrs R relied on what they were
told by Alex Cox and the advice they were given  I dont think they were in a financially
sophisticated position to query that advice.
So taking everything into account, I dont think the recommendation for a single
premium PPI policy was suitable in the circumstances  I dont think Alex Cox acted fairly
and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs R.
But if things had happened as they should have and if Alex Cox had properly advised and
informed Mr and Mrs R, given my findings above that they ultimately had a need for cover, I
think that Mr and Mrs R would have otherwise taken out a regular premium PPI
policy instead with the same level of cover and benefit split. In the circumstances I think this
would have met their needs at the time.
I can see that Mr and Mrs R were provided with a cost comparison sheet showing them the
cost differential between taking out a single premium policy versus a regular premium policy.
While I think the figures shown here are mis-leading, because Ive found that Alex Cox
shouldnt have recommend a single premium policy, I dont need to consider this any further
 it doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint.
Putting things right
Alex Cox needs to do something to put things right. In this case, because Ive
decided that Mr and Mrs R would otherwise have taken out a regular premium policy instead
of the less flexible single premium policy, it meets the circumstances in which alternative
redress can be offered (as Alex Cox indicated it was willing to do.) In my view, putting Mr
and Mrs R in the position they would have otherwise been in had they taken out a regular
premium policy instead, represents fair compensation in this case.
The amount of compensation that should be paid
To be fair to both parties  and to make things easier for Alex Cox - Ive had a calculation
completed to work out the extra Mr and Mrs R have paid because they were sold a single
premium policy instead of a regular premium policy. Ive had to make a number of what I
consider are reasonable assumptions to estimate the extra cost to Mr and Mrs R. Ive
explained these assumptions in the section below. 
Ive worked out the extra amount Mr and Mrs R will have paid for the single premium policy
by the time their mortgage is due to end in 2022. Ive worked out that in total, Mr and Mrs R
will pay £4,081.69 extra because the PPI was added to their mortgage at the start. Ive
worked out that Mr and Mrs R have already repaid £3,821.94 towards this cost  assuming
they make their normal repayment in October 2021.
The other £259.75 is the remaining cost of the single premium and interest on that amount
worked out up to the estimated end date of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage. Ive also worked out the cost of a regular premium policy. The rules by which this service
must follow say that the cost of a regular premium policy should be £9 per £100 of benefit. In
this case, Mr and Mrs Rs monthly benefit was £600.
So the cost of a regular premium policy is assumed to be £54 per month. As Mr and Mrs R
cancelled the PPI policy at the end of May 2012, Ive taken the assumption that theyd have
paid 54 payments towards the cost of a regular premium policy.
So, if Mr and Mrs R had been sold a regular premium policy instead, Ive worked out it
wouldve cost them £2,916 in total. With that in mind, Alex Cox should pay Mr and Mrs R the
difference between the cost of their single premium policy and a regular premium policy.
This amounts to £1,165.69.
Mr and Mrs R have also been out of pocket. This is because over the full term of their
mortgage, the cost of the single premium policy is more than the cost of a regular premium
policy. So, Mr and Mrs R should be paid compensatory interest for the time theyve been out
of pocket. The rate of compensation is 8% simple, per year. To work this out, Ive compared
what Mr and Mrs R have paid up to and including October 2021. Ive compared this to what
they wouldve paid each month for a regular premium policy. The monthly cost of a regular
premium policy was much higher than the monthly cost of the single premium policy. Mr and
Mrs R are only out of pocket from the point at which what theyve actually paid exceeds what
they wouldve paid for a regular premium policy. 
With that in mind, Ive worked out 8% simple interest per year on each of Mr and Mrs Rs 
monthly overpayments from that point up to 30 November 2021. The gross amount comes to 
£129.31. Compensatory interest is taxable at 20% - this is £25.86 and should be paid to 
HMRC on Mr and Mrs Rs behalf. The net total compensatory interest is £103.45.
So in total Ive worked out Alex Cox should pay Mr and Mrs R a total of £1,165.69 plus
£129.31 compensatory interest. This amount could change if its not paid before 30
November 2021 as the calculation will have to be updated. 
I think this is a reasonable resolution to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and represents fair 
compensation.
The information and assumptions Ive used to calculate the compensation
The calculation has been based on the information provided to date and with some
reasonable assumptions were appropriate.
The paperwork from the time of sale in 2007 gives information about the single premium cost
(£3,150), the mortgage amount and monthly repayments, plus an indication that the interest
was initially fixed for two years. Though theres nothing to confirm what the fixed rate of
interest was for the first two years, based on the total amount being borrowed over the term
of 15 years and the monthly mortgage repayments, a rate of interest of 5.74% seems likely.
So this is the interest rate Ive used to work out how much extra interest was charged for the
single premium in the first fixed rate period.
Paperwork from the time suggests that there was a re-mortgage in 2009 after the first fixed
rate period ended. The paperwork suggests an interest rate of 3.65% fixed for another two
years until October 2011. 
This is the rate Ive used in my calculations for the second fixed rate period.
The paperwork from 2009 also states that after this, the standard variable rate would apply.
At the time that was 2.79% (2.25% above the Bank of England base rate, which at that timewas 0.5%). The Bank of England base rate has changed a number of times since then. But
for simplicity sake, Ive assumed a rate of 2.79% was charged from the end of the second
fixed rate period up to the end of the mortgage.
In total, using the above rates, Ive worked out that Mr and Mrs R will have been charged
£931.69 interest for the PPI policy by the end of their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim on the policy and received a benefit of £420. But I
dont think this should be deducted from the compensation. This is because the
compensation is designed to put Mr and Mrs R in the position theyd have been in had they
taken a regular premium policy instead. And Mr and Mrs R would still have been able to
make that claim on the policy.
When a single premium PPI policy is cancelled early theres often a refund (a rebate) of
some of the unpaid cost of the policy. But in this case the insurer says it has no evidence
this was ever paid to Mr and Mrs R. And Alex Cox say they did not make any rebate and
were unaware of this. So Ive worked out the compensation on the basis no rebate was paid.
As explained above, 8% simple interest per year compensatory interest has been worked
out. This has been worked out on the overpayments Mr and Mrs R have made from the point
the amount theyve paid exceeds the amount they wouldve paid for a regular premium
policy. The calculation of 8% on those overpayments has been worked out from the date of 
each overpayment up to 30 November 2021. This is subject to change if the payment is not 
made by 30 November 2021.
Its been assumed that Mr and Mrs Rs monthly mortgage repayments have been made
each and every month since the start of the mortgage, inclusive of the October 2021
payment. As I dont know the actual repayment date, to be fair to both parties Ive assumed
Mr and Mrs R have made their payments on the 15th of the month.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I direct Alex 
Cox trading as M.A.S. Mortgages to pay Mr and Mrs R an amount of £1,269.14  subject to 
a review of the compensatory interest amount if  payment is not made to them by 30 
November 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman