DRN-2169559
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos havent 
refunded the cost of a gaming chair which she purchased and returned.
What happened
Ms B purchase a gaming chair from her local Argos branch using her store card. Having 
received the chair, Ms B discovered that it was faulty and returned it to the branch for a 
refund.
The return didnt appear on Ms Bs account statement, so she complained to Argos. Argos 
asked her to provide proof of return, but Ms B says she wasnt given this. Argos has refused 
to refund her account as a result.
Ms B brought her complaint to this service with the help of her local MP. She doesnt think 
its fair that she should have to pay for an item that she returned.
Our investigator considered a number of possible scenarios and thought that it was most 
likely that Ms B had tried to return the item in branch but that the return hadnt been 
accepted. The investigator didnt think it was fair to ask Argos to refund Ms B because there 
was no proof that the chair had been returned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Ms B purchased the chair. The issue is whether she returned it and 
whether she should receive a refund.
Ms B cant remember the exact date when she returned the chair. She initially thought it was 
in February 2019, but this date later changed when Ms B advised this service (via her MP) 
that the chair had been returned on 19 July 2019.
I can see that Argos has checked its records for a return of a chair on 19 July 2019 but has 
found nothing.
Ms B has said that she returned the chair to the branch but wasnt given a receipt or 
anything else to show that shed returned it. Argos has said it wont issue a refund without 
proof of return.
Although the investigator put forward a number of possible scenarios, I dont think its helpful 
 or necessary - to speculate as to what might have happened here.
Ive no reason to doubt what Ms B has said about returning the chair to the branch, although 
I cant be certain of the date of return as shes provided conflicting information about this. Id 
expect a retailer such as Argos to process a refund and issue a receipt at the point when an 
item is returned. Ms B has consistently said that she wasnt given a receipt for the return. I 
think its unlikely that Argos would accept a return and fail to issue a receipt. Even if I were to 
accept what Ms B has said about the staff being rude to her, this still doesnt explain why no 
receipt was issued. On balance, I think its more likely that Ms B tried to return the item but 
for some reason the return wasnt accepted, which is why a return receipt wasnt issued and 
why Ms Bs account wasnt credited.
Taking everything into account, I dont think it would be fair to ask Argos to refund Ms B 
because theres no clear evidence to show that Argos made an error here. I think Argos has 
acted fairly by trying to identify the return using the details provided by Ms B, but it wasnt 
able to find a record of the same. Ultimately, its up to Ms B to show that she returned the 
item and in the absence of a return receipt, Im unable to safely conclude that she has. I 
dont think Argos has acted unfairly by refusing to refund her account without proof of return. 
Because of this, I wont be asking Argos to credit the account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman