DRN-3841187
The complaint
Mr M says American Express Services Europe Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to 
a transaction on his credit card which paid for light aircraft flights abroad.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr M used his American Express Services Europe Limited credit card 
(Amex for short) to pay for these flights purchased via a website marketplace Ill call Firm F 
who arranged the flights to be supplied by a supplier Ill call Firm A. He paid Firm A direct 
just over £260 for the flights for four people. 
The Pandemic escalated and a few days before he was due to take these flights, Firm F sent 
Mr M an email saying We have cancelled your tour for you and your group, you will receive 
the full refund of the price of the tours (please note we cannot refund the card fee as this 
money goes to the banks) in your respective bank accounts in up to 45 business days, this 
time frame is due to all the cancellations we are receiving due to the Coronavirus.
Mr M says that he relied on this email knowing that there was a contractual term on the 
documentation he had which said if he cancelled the flights hed get 90% of his money back.
Firm F then later wrote to Mr M after the flights were due to fly, saying that they were relying 
on Force Majeure clause in the contract and as a consequence they werent paying any 
refund. Having reached deadlock with Firm F, Mr M took his dispute to Amex to see if it 
could help. 
Amex says it considered Chargeback and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund 
him the amount hed lost. So Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigators have issued assessments saying Amex doesnt have to do anything more. 
Mr M remains unhappy and so this complaint came to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision in November 2022 explaining for different reasons why I thought Amex 
didnt have to do more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have been sent my provisional decision. Neither party responded within the time 
frame set out. Im satisfied the decisions were sent to the parties properly. As neither party 
has chosen to make any representations on this matter I see no persuasive reason to 
deviate from the position I set out in my provisional decision. Accordingly my final decision is 
that this complaint is unsuccessful, and Amex doesnt have any further to do for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision. Ive quoted the key points of that decision below in italics.
Mr M used his Amex credit card to pay Firm A for the flights. This means Amex can have 
certain responsibilities to Mr M (if certain criteria are met) which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). There is no need for 
me to go into great detail about how this operates, but in summary, if certain criteria are met, 
Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr M to hold Amex liable for breaches of contract, or 
misrepresentations made by the supplier in relation to the agreement made. Again without 
going into a large amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract 
fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. Misrepresentation is when 
something is said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment.
This credit card is also part of a card network. And this network has rules which includes 
giving Amex an avenue for card transactions to be disputed, namely through the 
Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Amex and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr M fairly. This decision isnt about Firm F or 
Firm A which arent within this services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. 
I hope this distinction is clear.
could Amex challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr M doesnt dispute that he used his Amex credit card here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Amex couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr M didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Amex did raise a chargeback here. And it received a defence to the chargeback pointing to 
the terms and conditions stating that in such a situation there was no refund due. The test 
here is that Amex should start or continue a chargeback claim whilst it feels the chargeback 
has a reasonable prospect of success within the rules of the card scheme. Chargeback isnt 
a right and the only factors to be considered are what happened in the context of the 
network rules on the matter.
Having considered what we know I dont think Amex acted unfairly in concluding that having 
received the defence it did that the chargeback no longer had a reasonable prospect of 
success. So I dont think Mr M has lost out here because AMEX didnt continue.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and Ill quote the relevant sections of 
legislation for clarity.
S75 Liability of creditor for breaches by supplier.
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
(2) (Not relevant here)
(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
(a) (not relevant here)
(b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000Ive considered the booking documentation and I can see the four passengers are 
individually named, individually priced and each have separate booking confirmations, have 
individual passport numbers recorded and also have had to provide their personal weights 
(to ensure the small aircraft isnt overladen presumably). Accordingly Im satisfied that each 
of these bookings is a single item. And considering what Mr M paid it is clear to me that 
these single items do not cost more than £100 each and as a consequence of that any claim 
here does not meet the criteria required to have a potentially successful claim to Amex. So 
although Im not persuaded that Amex has considered everything it should have here I dont 
think Mr M has lost out. I say this because any S75 claim needs to meet the financial limits 
criteria and Im not persuaded Mr Ms does. And accordingly Amex hasnt done anything 
wrong by not refunding Mr M and considering what Ive already said this means that Mr Ms 
S75 claim hasnt been treated unfairly.
For completeness I should now turn to Mr Ms key argument which I note has been made 
repeatedly throughout this entire saga and to which I can imagine he feels hes never had a 
proper answer.
Mr M points to the term on the booking documentation which says that if he cancels the 
flights he could recoup 90% of the cost. And he points to being told hed have a full refund in 
the email by Firm F and he relied on that. And he argues that had he cancelled hed have 
got 90% back of the costs rather than receiving no refund at all.
Mr Ms argument has significant merit to it. However as Mr Ms claim doesnt meet the pre-
requisites of S75 financial limits criteria he cannot hold Amex responsible for a like claim as 
to that he has with the Supplier. Ive also considered S56 of the CCA which deals with 
misrepresentations in antecedent negotiations and to which the financial limits requirements 
do not apply. But considering when the email was sent Im not persuaded that what 
happened here meets the requirement of antecedent negotiations as described in the CCA 
as this wasnt prior to the contract being agreed but afterward. So I dont think that S56 
makes Amex responsible here either.
And more broadly I should add that Mr M paid Firm A but had most of his correspondence 
with Firm F. Similarly it was Firm F telling him about this refund, but he paid and contracted 
with Firm A, and the relationship between Firm F and Firm A isnt as clear as it could be. So 
Im not persuaded Mr M could reasonably rely on what one party said in relation to what 
another party was apparently going to do, considering the unclear nature of the relationship 
between these firms. 
So although I understand Mr Ms argument Im not sure Im persuaded by it. And Id also 
note that for Amex to have any liability for this loss Id need to be persuaded that had Mr M 
cancelled at that time hed have actually received the refund. I think its at least possible that 
had he cancelled as he suggests, hed have not received the refund, because the supplier 
would have pointed to its force majeure clause and said the flights werent taking place 
anyway. Clearly Firm A must have been considering the risks of it providing flights to all 
booked passengers prior to Firm F informing passengers the flights were cancelled. And 
within Firm As deliberations it must have appreciated its terms could lead to significant 
refunds becoming due. So Im not persuaded Mr M would have got his money refunded had 
he ignored the email and cancelled at that time.
I also have concerns as to whether Mr M can hold Amex responsible for other reasons 
specifically the three-party relationship required under S75 as Ive already quoted (debtor, 
creditor, supplier). I say this because Firm F and Firm A are supplying services to Mr M 
here (along with the creditor-Amex). So at this stage it might be that this requirement isnt 
met here either. But Ive not considered this further as it is clear to me that Mr Ms S75 claim 
falls at the first hurdle of financial limits.I should also add that Mr M was offered a credit for flights which appear to have been 
offered in addition to what the terms said, which appears to have been a commercial 
decision on the part of Firm F/Firm A. I appreciate that Mr M would likely see little value in 
such an offer but in the circumstances it is a fair offer.
Lastly I note Mr M describes customer service issues with dealing with Amex. However I can 
see it has dealt with him promptly and has reviewed matters after describing to Mr M why it 
wasnt going to be making a refund to him. Although I appreciate Mr M is frustrated with what 
happened here I should emphasise again that Amex is only responsible for what it is 
responsible for in dealing with Mr Ms dispute with Firm F and or Firm A. And I can well 
imagine Mr M isnt happy with how Firm F and Firm A have treated him.
So all in all having considered the matter and that neither party chose to respond to my 
provisional decision, Im not persuaded AMEX has caused Mr M to lose out because Im not 
persuaded Mr M was due a refund.  So it is my decision that AMEX hasnt done anything 
sufficiently wrong here which needs remedy. So Ive concluded that this complaint shouldnt 
succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint about American Express 
Services Europe Limited. It has nothing further to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman