DRN-4290494
The complaint
Miss V believes PCF Bank Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a conditional sale 
agreement shed applied for.
What happened
In February 2019, Miss V was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with PCF. The agreement was for £8,995 over 60 months, with monthly repayments of 
£239.46. 
Miss V has complained that PCF didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. She 
didnt think theyd carried out sufficient verification and affordability checks. She said her 
income was only £1,500 a month, which she relied on for herself and her three children. And 
she didnt think that PCF had properly considered her outgoings  she had a low credit rating 
and a County Court Judgement (CCJ) at the time of the application.
Miss V also complained that PCF failed to assist her by freezing interest and charges when 
she was in financial difficulties. And this meant she was unable to maintain a payment plan. 
She was also unhappy they didnt complete an income and expenditure assessment when 
they extended her agreement, following a payment deferral that had been put in place 
because Miss Vs income was affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
PCF didnt uphold Miss Vs complaint, so she brought it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that, by completing a full credit check, verifying Miss Vs income, and 
using data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to assess her outgoings; PCF had 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks. And, as Miss V had declared that she had 
no dependents, and there was nothing PCF had seen that would indicate anything different, 
these checks showed that Miss V was able to sustainably afford the payments. So, the 
investigator thought PCF had made a fair lending decision.
With regards to Miss Vs financial difficulties, the investigator said that PCF had accepted 
reduced payments, waived some interest and charges, and put a payment deferral in place 
when Miss Vs income had been affected by Covid-19. The investigator also said that, 
although a separate assessment of income and expenditure wasnt required for a Covid-19 
payment deferral, PCF had asked Miss V to provide this information when she wanted to 
make a payment arrangement in November 2021. However, Miss V didnt send this 
information to PCF until December 2021 (which PCF didnt receive) and again in July 2022. 
After which Miss V didnt reply to PCFs contacts about setting up a payment plan.
Given this, the investigator thought that PCF had acted with forbearance and due 
consideration when dealing with Miss Vs financial difficulties. And she didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Miss V didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the CCJ she had at the time (which 
has since been set aside and removed from her credit file) impacted the interest rate PCF 
offered, which wouldve increased the payment she had to make. And she didnt think that 
PCF had taken into consideration that she had a £509 default at the time.
Miss V also didnt think it was fair for PCF to rely on ONS data for her expenditure, as this 
wouldnt have accounted for her personal or cultural needs. And the figures they used didnt 
reflect her actual outgoings. Or that she would have additional expenses relating to the car 
she was being provided with i.e., insurance, fuel, and maintenance costs.
Miss V provided copies of her February to June 2019 payslips (all of which were after the 
loan was taken out), and these showed an average monthly income of £1,541. She also 
provided evidence that shed failed to pay a water bill in July 2019, that she owed the DWP 
£723 in February 2019, and that she spent £750 replacing the clutch on a car in March 2019. 
Additionally, shes provided a February 2019 car insurance quote, which shows her 
insurance premiums would be reducing by £230 a year, as well as bank statements for the 
period after the finance was taken out. And shes said that, because she was supplied with a 
7-seater car, which was more roomy and reliable, this shouldve been an indicator that she 
had dependents, as a single person with no dependents would have purchased a tiny 5 
seater car which suits a single persons needs.
The investigator didnt think this additional evidence showed PCF had acted unreasonably 
when approving the finance. And she didnt change her view. So, Miss V asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did PCF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss V 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did PCF make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss V 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did PCF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that PCF didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss Vs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did PCF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss V would be 
able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for, as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. PCF have said that, as part of every application for credit they receive, they undertake 
eligibility, creditworthiness, and affordability checks. And they do this by reviewing the 
customers credit file and their monthly income and expenditure (from ONS data). Theyve 
evidenced they carried out these checks for Miss V. And the use of ONS data is an industry 
standard way of calculating affordability. So, I cant say that PCF have done anything wrong 
by using this method.
Given this, based on what Ive seen and PCFs comments, Im satisfied that PCF carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. And I wouldnt have expected them to do anything 
more, for example obtain copies of Miss Vs bank statements.
Did PCF make a fair lending decision?
In applying for finance, Miss V declared a £21,600 gross annual income, which PCF 
calculated to be around £1,500 a month net. She also declared that she had no dependents. 
And this resulted in the ONS data saying that her total monthly costs for essential bills would 
be approximately £1,000 a month.
Had Miss V correctly declared that she had three dependents, this wouldve affected 
(increased) the outgoings calculated by the ONS data. However, while Ive noted Miss Vs 
comments about the car, I dont think its reasonable for PCF to assume that customers who 
want a larger car must therefore have dependents  an individual will choose a car for a 
number of different reasons, and someone without dependents is not limited to purchasing 
(in Miss Vs words) a tiny car. 
Whats more, I wouldnt expect PCF to ask Miss V to prove that she had no dependents as 
part of any application process, especially given that this would be almost impossible to do. 
As such, Im satisfied that PCF acted reasonably by relying on the information Miss V had 
provided them about her dependents. And therefore, by using this information to calculate 
her likely outgoings.
PCF have provided a copy of the credit check they carried out for Miss V when she applied 
for finance. This showed that Miss V had four active credit accounts with a total outstanding 
balance of £200, and total payments of £20 a month. Miss Vs credit file also showed that 
she had two historic defaults, dated between February and September 2016, with a total 
default balance of £150. 
The CCJ Miss V had at the time, which was later set aside, doesnt appear on her credit file. 
Nor does the £509 default shes also said she had. Whats more, I havent seen anything to 
show me that Miss V made PCF aware of either the CCJ or the large additional default. And 
its not reasonable for me to say that PCF shouldve based their lending decision on 
information they werent aware of.
Additionally, I wouldnt expect PCF to decline any finance application just because there 
were defaults and/or CCJs present. However, I would expect them to consider these as part 
of any overall lending and risk decision. Which, in this instance, is what PCF did.
Miss V also provided PCF with a copy of her January 2019 payslip. This showed an income 
of £1,705 a month. While her later payslips have shown an average income of £1,541 a 
month, these are all dated after the finance was agreed. So, they wouldnt have been 
available to PCF had they asked for more payslips when Miss Vs application was being 
processed. And, had PCF thought an additional payslip was necessary, the bank statement 
Miss V has subsequently provided for December 2018 shows an income of £1,856. So, this 
is what her payslip wouldve shown.As such, had PCF gone for further income verification (and I dont think they needed to) this 
wouldve supported the £1,700 income figure they used in the affordability calculation.
Turning to this affordability statement, Ive seen that PCF used the gross income figure of 
£21,600 Miss V declared in her application (as well as the zero dependents shed declared) 
as part of the ONS calculation of her expenses. And, after deducting the £1,000 ONS 
expenses and the £20 credit commitments from Miss Vs payslip proven income of £1,700, 
this gave her £680 a month from which to pay the £240 finance payment, as well as any 
other discretionary expenditure she had  what Miss V has referred to as her personal and 
cultural needs, as well as any costs relating to the car.
Furthermore, I havent seen anything to show me that Miss V provided PCF with any 
additional information about her income and expenditure that wouldve indicated that PCFs 
affordability calculation was incorrect.
Given this, Im satisfied that the lending decision PCF made was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Did PCF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen that Miss V maintained payments on the agreement until October 2019. The 
November 2019 payment was missed but PCFs case notes show she told them the reason 
for this was because she had moved home, and it would take time for her to secure a new 
job. And theres nothing to show that she ever said that the finance wasnt affordable, and 
that she was struggling to keep up with payments because of this.
Miss V agreed a payment plan for this in January 2020, and PCF waived all fees and 
charges. Her income was affected by Covid-19 in April 2020, and PCF arranged for a 
payment deferral. As Miss V didnt want to increase her payments once the deferral had 
ended, PCF extended the agreement term to account for the deferred payments. As this 
deferral was provided under the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Covid-19 guidance for 
customers with affected income, PCF didnt need to do an affordability assessment at this 
point. So, I cant say theyve done anything wrong by not doing this.
Miss V resumed payments in July 2020. In October 2020 she told PCF that due to a change 
in her circumstances, she was no longer able to afford the payments. PCF provided her with 
her options, but the Statement of Account shows that she maintained the payments until she 
missed the one due in March 2021.
Miss V contacted PCF about this in April 2021, and again explained the payment was 
missed due to the additional expenses associated with moving home. And she agreed to pay 
an additional £20 a month to repay the arrears. However, Miss V stopped paying this 
additional amount after the August 2021 payment. In November 2021, she explained to PCF 
that this was because she had fallen behind with other payments. And she asked about 
setting up a new payment plan.
PCF asked Miss V to complete an income and expenditure form. She did this, and sent it 
back to PCF on 3 December 2021, with an offer to pay an additional £30 a month to clear 
her arrears. Its not disputed that PCF didnt receive this, but despite saying that she would, 
Miss V didnt make any additional payments towards her arrears. She did, however, maintain 
the regular payments to PCF.
In July 2022, after PCF had tried to arrange a home visit to discuss the arrears, Miss V 
resubmitted the income and expenditure form shed completed in December 2021. PCF received this and asked her how much she was able to pay towards the arrears. However, 
Miss V didnt reply, and then she raised her complaint about unaffordable lending.
Given what has happened, Im satisfied that PCF have acted in line with the FCAs 
guidelines for treating customers in arrears with forbearance and due consideration. And I 
dont think theyve done anything wrong by either not waiving any additional interest and 
charges, or by reporting Miss Vs arrears to the credit reference agencies.
As such, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Miss V, I dont think that 
PCF have acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Vs complaint about PCF Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman