DRN-2607235
The complaint
Ms S complains that Society of Lloyds declined a claim she made under her travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S had travel insurance through one of Society of Lloyds underwriters from 
February 2020 onwards. When she took out the policy, she declared she suffered from a 
mental health condition, and Society of Lloyds agreed to insure her for this.
Ms S parent notified Society of Lloyds on 5 March 2020 that Ms S was suffering from an 
episode due to her condition while abroad. Ms S was taken to the police station the next day, 
and Society of Lloyds arranged for a doctor to visit her there to assess her. 
The doctor recommended Ms S to be transferred to a psychiatric hospital for foreigners. She 
was transferred on 7 March 2020, and Society of Lloyds paid for the ambulance. Society of 
Lloyds notes on 7 March 2020 confirm that the claim was covered.
Between 7 March 2020 and 10 March 2020, Society of Lloyds tried to arrange for Ms S 
parents to fly to her  it was happy to cover the cost of one parent. But this unfortunately 
coincided with the global pandemic, and due to new restrictions and visa regulations in the 
specific country, Ms S parents werent able to fly.
Society of Lloyds then tried to get information from the hospital  it needed a medical report 
and a fit to fly certificate before it could make arrangements to repatriate Ms S. Society of 
Lloyds local agent said on 12 March 2020 that the only way to get this information was to 
send a private doctor to visit Ms S at the hospital. This was authorised on the same day. But 
before this could be arranged, the local agent needed a letter from the UK consulate for the 
hospital. This was arranged on 13 March 2020, but the treating doctor wasnt then available 
for an appointment until 18 March 2020.
Society of Lloyds notes show that it wasnt able to repatriate Ms S without this medical 
information. So, on 13 March 2020 it queried about the possibility of moving her to a private 
facility. This was agreed on 14 March 2020, and Society of Lloyds notes say it thought this 
was the only reliable way to ensure Ms S was treated to the point where it was safe to 
repatriate her. But this again needed involvement from the consulate for the transfer to take 
place, and the treating doctor wasnt available until 18 March 2020.
Before Ms S was transferred, Society of Lloyds received notification on 16 March 2020 that 
there had been a certain drug ingredient present in Ms S urine. Society of Lloyds notes 
show it was reconsidering cover for the claim due to an exclusion in the policy terms. And 
while it was doing that, it put Ms S transfer to a private hospital on hold.
Society of Lloyds didnt decide to decline the claim at this point, and its notes suggested on 
18 March 2020 that itll still do all it could to get Ms S into a position where she could return 
home. Society of Lloyds notes show it would still support transferring Ms S to a private 
facility at that point.
The private doctor visited Ms S at the hospital on 19 March 2020. They noted that the doctor 
who could arrange Ms S transfer to a private facility wasnt available until 23 March 2020.
It was confirmed on 23 March 2020 that Ms S could be transferred to a private facility, but a 
letter was needed from Society of Lloyds and the UK consulate to make that happen. Ms S 
was transferred to a private facility on 25 March 2020.
Society of Lloyds decided on 30 March 2020 to decline to cover Ms S claim due to an 
exclusion in the policy relating to drugs, as it had been notified that a certain drug ingredient 
had been present in Ms S urine when she was originally admitted to hospital.
Society of Lloyds was still trying to help get Ms S home, and it asked the private facility if 
Ms S would be fit to fly. But it told Ms S parent on 31 March 2020 that it wasnt covering the 
claim.
Society of Lloyds was concerned about data protection so it decided to send the reasons for 
declining the claim directly to Ms S. I can see from the notes that Society of Lloyds made 
Ms S parent aware of this, who then asked Ms S to keep an eye out for the email and 
forward it to them as they intended to challenge the decision to decline. But the parent also 
told Society of Lloyds that when Ms S learned of the reason for the decline, it would 
exacerbate her condition.
Before sending the formal letter declining the claim, Society of Lloyds was still trying to get a 
medical report showing the result of Ms S urine test. But it wasnt able to obtain any reports 
from the hospital. Society of Lloyds sent an email to Ms S with the reason of declining the 
claim on 7 April 2020. Ms S parents arranged her to return to the UK on 11 April 2020.
One of our investigators looked into Ms S complaint. She didnt think Society of Lloyds had 
fairly declined Ms S claim. She didnt think the evidence was strong enough to say Society 
of Lloyds could rely on the policy exclusion relating to drugs. So, she said it should pay the 
claim plus 8% simple interest.
Society of Lloyds didnt agree. It didnt think our investigator had placed enough weight on 
the evidence it had submitted, and which Society of Lloyds considered material to the 
outcome. As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2020. Heres what I said:
Industry guidance says an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly, and not 
unreasonably reject a claim. In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Ms S complaint, Ive had regard to this guidance. 
If an insurer is relying on a policy exclusion, its for the insurer to show the exclusion applies. 
The relevant exclusion in the policy terms which Society of Lloyds is seeking to rely on to 
decline Ms S claim says that This insurance does not cover: [] 5. any claim caused by or 
arising out of: A. wilfully self-inflicted illness or injury, the influence of drugs [].
Society of Lloyds has declined the claim due to a certain drug ingredient being found in 
Ms S urine. But for it to be able to rely on the above exclusion, I think it needs to show that 
its more likely than not that this claim was caused by, or arose out of, the influence of drugs. 
Based on everything Ive seen so far, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.Firstly, Society of Lloyds hasnt been able to obtain any written medical evidence confirming 
the urine test, and what the result was. Wed generally consider contemporaneous medical 
evidence to be more persuasive than medical evidence obtained after the event. The 
medical reports refer to this test taking place on 7 March 2020. But the report that mentions 
this test was dated 19 March 2020 based on a private doctor visit to see Ms S and a ward 
doctor. The first mention of the drug ingredient was conveyed to Society of Lloyds verbally 
on 16 March 2020. But if drugs had been found in Ms S urine following a test, Id expect this 
to have been mentioned much sooner than nine days after the event.  
Ive also seen a report from a psychiatric doctor who treated Ms S at the private facility who 
said, in short, that in his opinion the cause of the episode was a relapse of Ms S mental 
health condition. Without any written medical evidence confirming the urine test, and what 
the result was, Im persuaded by the findings of this report for the cause of the episode.
Ive considered the reports Society of Lloyds has specifically referred to about the cause of 
the episode. But its not in question that Ms S suffered from a mental health condition, and 
shed previously suffered from episodes relating to that condition. When she took out the 
policy, she also declared that this condition causes symptoms that are relevant to the 
episode in question.
Having considered everything, I dont think Society of Lloyds has shown its more likely than 
not that drugs were the cause of the episode in question. That means I dont think it acted 
reasonably when it declined Ms S claim.
Ive then considered if Society of Lloyds caused Ms S distress and inconvenience when it 
unfairly declined the claim, and if it should compensate her for it.
Firstly, I can only award compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused to Ms S. I 
can see that her parents were mainly in contact with Society of Lloyds here, and arranged 
her return flight. I cant award any compensation for the impact of Society of Lloyds actions 
on Ms S parents, as they arent insured under this policy and arent therefore eligible 
complainants under our rules. But I do intend to award compensation for the impact that 
some of Society of Lloyds actions had on Ms S. Ill explain why.
I know Ms S parents have explained that the standard of the public hospital wasnt good 
enough. But standards of care in medical facilities can vary significantly across the world and 
wont always be at the level wed expect to find in the UK. The conditions in local hospitals is 
something which is outside an insurers control  but I would expect an insurer to take action 
if a medical facility is clearly unsuitable or unequipped to meet a policyholders medical 
needs. While I understand Ms S and her parents were unhappy with the conditions, I havent 
seen enough to say that the psychiatric hospital for foreigners was unsuitable for Ms S 
medical needs.
That said, Im mindful that on 14 March 2020 Society of Lloyds thought that the only reliable 
way to ensure Ms S was treated to the point where it was safe to repatriate her was to move 
her to a private facility. As this didnt happen until 25 March 2020, Ive thought about whether 
I think Society of Lloyds actions led to a delay here. 
Based on the timeline of events, it looks like there were several steps involved in making the 
transfer happen. Not only was a letter from the UK consulate needed, I can see that the 
doctor who could make the transfer happen wasnt available until 23 March 2020. And Ms S 
was transferred on 25 March 2020. Overall, I dont think Society of Lloyds actions led to any 
significant or unreasonable delay here.However, I dont think Society of Lloyds acted fairly by declining the claim. I dont think the 
medical evidence Society of Lloyds had supported its decision to do this. And I think Society 
of Lloyds shouldve been more sensitive in its communications with Ms S, given what it had 
been told about the likelihood of exacerbating her condition. I also think Society of Lloyds 
failure to make arrangements for Ms S repatriation caused Ms S distress. 
Overall, I think Society of Lloyds actions had an impact on Ms S, and it caused her 
unnecessary distress. I think it should pay £300 to compensate her for these issues.
So, my provisional decision was that Society of Lloyds should pay Ms S claim, together with 
interest, as well as the compensation outlined above.
Ms S representative responded to say that Society of Lloyds was first notified of the 
situation on 6 March 2020, not on 5 March 2020. She also said that between 6 and 
11 March 2020 no contact was made by the insurers agent about Ms S condition in the 
hospital until Ms S got in touch with her parents in the UK on 11 March 2020, in distress.
Society of Lloyds said it had received my provisional decision. But it didnt send us further 
comments and the deadline to do so has now passed. So, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the documentary evidence Ive seen (Society of Lloyds notes), Ms S parent first 
got in touch about Ms S situation on 5 March 2020, not on 6 March 2020. Either way, I dont 
think this detail is material to the outcome of the complaint  I set out these details purely to 
outline the background to the complaint.
I note that between the time period Ms S representative highlighted (6 and 11 March 2020) 
Society of Lloyds was told the hospital Ms S was at didnt share information with third 
parties. And as I explained in my provisional decision, Society of Lloyds was trying to 
arrange Ms S parents to fly to her. When this fell through, Society of Lloyds arranged a 
private doctor to visit Ms S at the hospital because it wasnt able to get medical information 
otherwise. Overall, I think Society of Lloyds tried to do what it could in the circumstances in 
the timeframe Ms S representative has mentioned.
Other than the above, neither party has given me any new information or evidence to 
consider. So, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision. That means Ive reached the same conclusions I did in my provisional decision, 
and for the same reasons.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Society of Lloyds acted reasonably when it 
declined Ms S claim. I also think it caused her unnecessary distress. Ive set out below how 
Society of Lloyds should put things right.
Putting things right
I direct Society of Lloyds to: 
deal with Ms S claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy,
pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per year* on the amount it pays back to Ms S from 
the date the payments were made, to the date of settlement, and
pay Ms S £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.*If Society of Lloyds considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from any interest paid, it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give her 
a certificate showing this if she asks for one. That way she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms S complaint. I direct Society of Lloyds to put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman