DRN-2558279
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in December 2000. The policy was 
taken out during a phone call and provided Mr M with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr M didnt agree. 
He said, in summary, that:
He didnt need the policy and never asked for it.
He would never have needed to claim on the policy.
Santanders sales script, which the investigator relied on, must have been formed to 
convince consumers to take the PPI and that is why so many people have been able to 
make a successful claim for a mis-sold policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Santander doesnt have a full record of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so 
long ago and that the policy and the mortgage have been closed for more than 15 years. In 
cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint for the following reasons:
Mr M says he recalls he was told he had to have the PPI and he doesnt remember having a 
choice. Ive taken Mr Ms recollection into account, but I also have to take into account how 
long ago the sale was and how this might affect what he recalls. I cant say with any certainty 
what was discussed during the phone call, but without stronger evidence to show Santander 
didnt make it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr M didnt agree to take it out, I cant fairly 
uphold the complaint on this point. Overall, taking into consideration what we know about the 
way Santander sold PPI around this time, I think it more likely than not that Santander made 
Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it.
Mr M says the sales script used must have been formed to convince customers to take PPI. 
I accept that its likely that during the call with Mr M the member of staff focussed on the 
benefits of the policy and encouraged Mr M to take it. But that doesnt mean it was mis-sold. 
Whilst many people have been able to make a successful claim for a mis-sold policy, PPI 
was a useful product in certain circumstances.
Santander recommended the policy to Mr M and it doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr M told us he would have received six months full pay followed by three months half 
pay if he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident and that he had some savings. 
And he says he would never have needed to claim on the policy. But the PPI would have 
paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim for accident or sickness in 
addition to his sick pay. Having the policy in place would mean Mr M could use his 
work-related benefits to cover other living expenses whilst not working and it would have 
kept his savings intact for his future needs or their original purpose. And the PPI was 
intended to be in place for the lifetime of the mortgage. It is likely that during this time 
Mr M may have needed to use his savings for other reasons. The policy also covered 
him if hed become unemployed. The mortgage was a significant long-term financial 
commitment and Mr Ms home was at risk if he didnt keep up with the repayments. So 
I think the PPI could have been a useful benefit.
Mr M wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations. 
Ive considered the possibility that the cost of the policy wasnt clearly communicated to 
Mr M before he agreed to purchase it. I think its possible he wasnt told the monthly cost 
until after the mortgage had started. For this reason, I have considered whether clearer 
information about the cost would have affected Mr Ms decision to purchase the policy. 
He had chosen to take out the policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. 
The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely he 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Santanders recommendation 
was unsuitable and I dont think Mr M would have made a different decision about taking out 
the policy if better information had been provided to him, despite what he says now. Overall, 
I think he would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman