DRN-3127022
The complaint
Mrs E complains about MBNA Limited and their failure to arrange a payment holiday as 
shed assumed would happen after making them aware of her financial difficulties caused by 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mrs E took out a credit card account with MBNA in 2012. Shed maintained this account well 
until early 2020, when her circumstances were impacted by COVID-19 and the restrictions 
imposed by the government. 
Mrs E contacted MBNA in March 2020, where she explained she was self employed so had 
been unable to work. MBNA agreed to provide Mrs E with a 30-day breathing space and to 
refund Mrs Es payment made in February. But MBNA also explained this refund would 
impact Mrs Es credit file. And MBNA say they also explained to Mrs E they were likely to be 
offering payment holidays in the near future so to monitor her e-mails regarding this.
In early April, MBNA began offering customers the option of a payment holiday and sent Mrs 
E an e-mail regarding this. But Mrs E thought this would be automatically applied to her 
account so didnt contact MBNA again.
As Mrs E though a payment holiday was in place, she missed her minimum monthly 
payments for April and May which caused arrears to accrue on her account. So, in early 
June, MBNA wrote to Mrs E to explain they had reduced her credit limit to prevent further 
spending on the account.
Following this letter, Mrs E called MBNA to ask if she could have a payment holiday. But 
MBNA explained she wasnt eligible for this as her account was in two months arrears. Mrs 
E was unhappy with this so she raised a complaint.
Mrs E didnt think MBNA had acted fairly by refusing to provide her with a payment holiday. 
She explained her belief that shed qualified for this automatically by explaining her financial 
situation to MBNA in late March 2020. So, she wanted this to be applied and any negative 
information reported to her credit file to be removed.
MBNA didnt agree. They explained payment holidays werent available when Mrs E called 
them in March. So, they explained there was no way for this to be applied to Mrs Es account 
at the time. They thought their handler had made Mrs E aware a payment holiday may be 
available and that Mrs E would need to contact them again to arrange this. And they thought 
this was re-enforced by their letter sent in April. As Mrs E had missed two payments 
following the expiry of her 30-day breathing space, they thought theyd acted fairly when 
refusing to provide a payment holiday as Mrs E wasnt eligible for this offer. So, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Mrs E wasnt happy with this response so she 
referred her complaint to our service.
While the complaint was with our service, MBNA provided another 30-day breathing space. 
And Mrs E called MBNA in August to arrange a repayment plan to pay off the arrears. MBNA 
agreed to a £100 payment for three months, which Mrs E maintained. And in December 
2020, MBNA referred Mrs E to their specialist support team for further assistance. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised the impact 
COVID-19 had on Mrs Es finances and the worry and upset this wouldve caused. But she 
didnt think MBNA had acted unfairly by refusing to offer a payment holiday. She didnt think 
MBNA couldve offered this when Mrs E first spoke to them as it wasnt available at the time. 
So, she thought Mrs E shouldve been reasonably aware she needed to apply for this 
separately. As Mrs E didnt, and instead accrued arrears on her account, she thought Mrs E 
fell outside of the criteria for a payment holiday when she requested it in June. So, she didnt 
think MBNA needed to do anything more.
Mrs E didnt agree. She explained another lender acted positively and sympathetically to the 
same situation, agreeing to backdate her payment holiday and remove any negative 
information from her credit file. So, she thought it was unfair for MBNA to refuse to do the 
same. As Mrs E didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs E. I appreciate COVID-19 
and the restrictions imposed by the government had a significant impact on many peoples 
finances, in particular those that were self-employed. I recognise how worrying and upsetting 
it wouldve been for Mrs E to lose her income yet still be required to maintain her financial 
commitments. And I recognise Mrs E attempted to address this by speaking to MBNA in 
March 2020, where a 30-day breathing space was agreed. 
As Mrs E explained to MBNA she was impacted by COVID-19, I can also understand why 
Mrs E may have assumed MBNA would apply a payment holiday automatically as theyd 
already accepted she was in a difficult financial situation. But for me to say MBNA have done 
something wrong, Id need to see evidence that satisfies they mis-led Mrs E into believing 
this was the case. And because of this, Mrs E accrued arrears which prevented her from 
being eligible for a payment holiday when she requested one in June. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Ive seen Mrs E spoke to MBNA on 27 March 2020, where a refund of her February payment 
and a 30-day breathing space was agreed. Ive seen the contact notes of this call, which 
detail Mrs Es financial situation due to COVID-19 and the restrictions put in place. So, I am 
satisfied MBNA had accepted Mrs E was in a difficult financial situation and had acted 
positively and sympathetically to that situation.
But crucially, this call took place before they were offering payment holidays to affected 
customers. Ive seen payment holidays werent offered until 4 April, and all of MBNAs were 
e-mailed about this. MBNA have confirmed Mrs E was sent this e-mail and the e-mail 
address used matches with the e-mail address we hold for Mrs E on this system. So, Im 
satisfied Mrs E received this.So, Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for Mrs E to assume she would 
automatically receive a payment holiday. And I dont think it was. Ive seen nothing in the call 
notes or on MBNAs system to suggest an automatic transfer to a payment holiday was 
agreed or discussed.
And Ive seen Mrs E wouldve received an e-mail explaining payment holidays were 
available after she spoke to MBNA. I think this makes it reasonably clear that a payment 
holiday was a different plan to a 30-day breathing space. So, I think Mrs E shouldve been 
reasonably aware shed need to discuss this with MBNA to ensure a payment holiday was 
put in place. And I cant see that she did.
Because of the above, I cant agree that MBNA mis-led into believing shed receive a 
payment holiday after the 30-day breathing space expired. So, I dont think it would be fair to 
hold them responsible for the missed payments in April and May. And Id expect them to 
report these payments to Mrs Es credit file as they have a duty to accurately report the way 
Mrs E was managing her account. Id only ask MBNA to remove these if I think they were 
responsible for the missed payments and I dont think thats the case here.
As Mrs E missed payments in April and May, she accrued two months arrears on her 
account. MBNA have confirmed customers with arrears on their account didnt qualify for a 
payment holiday, as per their business process. Im unable to comment on MBNAs decision 
to implement these criteria as theyre entitled to set their own business processes and any 
concerns about this would be a matter for the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
But as this process was in place, and Mrs E had arrears on her account, I cant say MBNA 
have acted unfairly as theyve followed their set process applied to any customers 
application for the payment holiday. So, I dont think they need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs E was hoping for. And I appreciate Mrs E has 
encountered a similar situation with another lender who took different action. But my 
decision is focused solely on the service MBNA provided to Mrs E and cant be influenced by 
the actions taken by a separate lender on a separate account. 
I think MBNA did act positively and sympathetically to Mrs Es situation by agreeing a 30-day 
breathing space on two separate occasions, as well as refunding a payment Mrs E made to 
help her immediate financial situation. They also reduced Mrs Es credit limit to prevent 
further spending which would place Mrs E in further debt. And Ive seen theyve agreed an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs E since then, as well as signposting her external debt 
advice organisations. I would hope MBNA continues to act positively and sympathetically to 
Mrs Es situation moving forwards.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint about MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman