DRN-2819225
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice he received from ReAssure Limited (previously Legal & 
General) to take out four endowment policies between 1985 and 1990. Overall, Mr B 
complains the policies werent suitable as he wasnt willing to accept any risk for repaying a 
mortgage and the policies were sold in advance of his first mortgage in 1993. 
Mr B is being represented by a CMC in his complaint. 
What happened
Mr B was sold the following policies at the following times:
Policy ending 583  1985 for a sum assured of £3,000
Policy ending 031  1986 for a sum assured of £3,000
Policy ending 945  1987 for a sum assured of £18,000
Policy ending 074  1990 for a sum assured of £5,000
Mr B complained via a CMC in 2020 that the policies had been mis-sold. ReAssure said it 
didnt have sufficient records of the sales carried out in 1985 and 1986 on which to base an 
investigation. It said the complaint about the risk associated with policy ending 945 was 
made out of time from high-risk warning letters. But it agreed the policy had been forward 
sold and so made an offer of compensation, which Mr B accepted. And in relation to policy 
ending 074 it also said there was insufficient information on which to base an investigation. 
Mr B asked us to look into the matter. ReAssure provided its file and when doing so 
confirmed it had decided to make an offer in relation to the policy ending 074. During the 
course of our investigations, Mr B also accepted the offer made in relation to this complaint. 
That left the policies sold in 1985 and 1986 to consider. 
Initially our investigator upheld the complaint as the paperwork for the policies all seemed 
the same and so she was satisfied they were all likely sold by the same business. However, 
on receiving an explanation that sales by independent advisers would also use the same 
paperwork, she recommended the complaint wasnt upheld as she couldnt be sure 
ReAssure was responsible for answering the complaints. 
The CMC has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It has argued that if 
ReAssure had been unsure of who sold the policies why has an offer since been made in 
relation to policy ending 074. It says Mr Bs recollections about who sold the policy are the 
same and there are no reasons to suggest otherwise. It doesnt believe ReAssure is treating 
Mr B fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B has accepted offers of compensation in relation to policies ending 945 and 074, I 
wont be considering the merits of those particular sales. My decision is therefore in relation 
to policies ending 583 and 031 only. And having considered the matter carefully, I agree with 
the investigators ultimate conclusions for the following reasons:
When sending its file, a fact-find for the 1990 sale had been located, showing that 
Legal & General sold policy ending 074 and so is one that ReAssure has 
responsibility for. This would explain the subsequent offer made, particularly as the 
reason for the review was savings and possible mortgage and the recommendation 
was an endowment policy. 
No such records exist for the policies sold in 1985 or 1986; the only records available 
are the policy schedules and maturity information. These policies were sold when 
there was no financial regulation in place and no such documents as fact-finds 
setting out the record of any discussion. And nor indeed was advice commonplace 
and if it was given it only had to be given with reasonable care and skill. 
The policy schedules are on Legal & General documentation but thats because it 
was the endowment provider. It doesnt follow that Legal & General sold the policies. 
As explained by the investigator, even if the policy had been sold by an independent 
agent, schedules would still have been produced on Legal & General headed paper. 
So the existence of this documentation isnt persuasive evidence of who sold the 
policies to Mr B.
I have noted that both policy schedules refer to a sales office. This could indicate that 
the sale had been made through that particular office. However, Im also aware the 
Legal & Generals sales offices were used by independent agents and advisers to 
submit business.  
I have considered Mr Bs recollections of who sold the policies and this is consistent 
with the adviser who sold a policy in 1990 and arranged the mortgage in 1993. But 
Im not persuaded that of itself is sufficient evidence of who sold policies several 
years earlier. 
I have considered the matter carefully. But the starting position for any complaint is to ensure 
the party it has been brought against is responsible for the act or omission complained 
about. Given the length of time since these policies were sold it isnt surprising that neither 
party has much in the way of documentation. In the absence of persuasive evidence, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to ask ReAssure to pay compensation for something it might not 
be responsible for. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman