DRN-3932508
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about the maturity value of a mortgage endowment policy with Aviva Life 
& Pensions Limited. He is unhappy that the maturity value hasnt been paid to him as Aviva 
wants proof of address that he cant provide. 
What happened
At the end of March 2021 a relative of Mr A contacted Aviva to find out about him encashing 
his endowment policy. As he had moved abroad since the last contact hed had with Aviva, it 
asked him to complete a change of address form. The form explained that if Mr A had 
moved abroad, he would need to fill in another form too, and that he needed to call Aviva to 
obtain a copy of that form (despite it being aware when the letter was sent that Mr A had 
moved abroad). Later that month Mr A was written to again and Avivas identification (ID) 
requirements were set out. It required two forms of ID  a primary ID to prove who he was, 
e.g. a passport, and a secondary ID to prove his address, such as a utility bill in his name 
dated within the previous three months.
Mr A responded to Avivas requirements in emails explaining that as he lived in a foreign 
country, he was required to keep his passport and driving licence on him at all times, which 
meant he couldnt post them to the UK. He also confirmed that he didnt have a utility bill with 
his address on it, but suggested providing his Alien Card, which contained a photograph 
and address. 
Mr A called Aviva at the end of April 2021 and in early May 2021 to discuss what alternative 
proofs it would accept. Mr A confirmed that he would send Aviva his passport, UK driving 
licence and alien registration form, if Aviva would confirm this was acceptable. Mr A was told 
that Aviva would seek guidance from the relevant department and get back to him. Mr A was 
sent an identical letter as that detailed above from April. No comment was made in relation 
to the content of his April 2021 email or the telephone calls of April and May 2021. Mr A 
chased Aviva for a response to his specific questions on 21 and 27 May 2021.  
In early May 2021 Aviva acknowledged receipt of emailed copies of Mr As driving licence 
and passport, but explained that it needed to receive the original documents or certified 
copies. It set out again that it needed a primary ID, such as a driving licence or passport, and 
a secondary ID evidencing his address, dated within the last three months, such as a utility 
bill. 
In early June 2021 Mr A explained to Aviva the difficulty of providing proof of address, 
because of the requirements regarding property and finances in the country he resides in. 
He asked Aviva if he could provide a copy of his marriage certificate and a utility bill in his 
wifes name to evidence their address  the secondary ID. Aviva decided to agree with that, 
but when it tried to call Mr A to confirm its agreement, it was unable to get through to him. It 
doesnt appear to have tried again or written or emailed him with the confirmation.  The letter 
that was sent to Mr A around a week later again set out Avivas standard ID requirements 
and not the alternative option it had decided it would accept.
In September 2021 Aviva received original documents from Mr A. They were returned on 
24 September 2021.
On 27 and 30 September 2021 Mr A emailed Aviva asking it to pay out the maturity 
proceeds of his policy, in light of him having provided the ID it required. Aviva responded by 
sending a letter setting out its standard proof of ID requirements. 
Mr A sent an identical email to those he had sent in September, on 12 October 2021. Mr A 
chased a response again on 21 October 2021 and asked Aviva to call him. Aviva responded 
the following day and acknowledged receipt of a bank statement and the counterpart of 
Mr As driving licence. It confirmed that it couldnt accept the counterpart of the driving 
licence and set out again its primary and secondary identification requirements. 
Mr A emailed Aviva on 25 October 2021 asking that he be called by someone with some 
senior authority. He explained that he wanted to make a complaint regarding the poor 
service Aviva had provided in relation to the change of address and the settlement of his 
claim.  Mr A emailed Aviva again on 28 October 2021 again asking that he be called and 
confirming he wanted to make a complaint.
A further letter confirming Avivas standard ID requirements was sent to Mr A in the middle of 
November. Shortly thereafter Mr A emailed and expressed his disappointment that Aviva 
wasnt paying out the value of his policy because he was unable to provide a utility bill in his 
name. 
Aviva responded to the complaint on 8 November 2021. Aviva confirmed that it needed 
specific identification documentation to be able to verify and then update his overseas 
address. That previously provided by Mr A didnt meet its requirements, however, it was 
reviewing the current documentation provided and would provide him with a response in due 
course. Aviva was satisfied that it had followed the correct process. 
Mr A subsequently provided Aviva with his original driving licence, but it wrote to him again 
on 24 December 2021 telling him that he needed to provide proof of his address.
Mr A remained unhappy and Aviva sent him a further response letter on 10 January 2022. 
Aviva said that in 2014 it had explained what identification requirements it needed, given that 
Mr A was working outside of the UK at the time, but it had made a mistake in who it told Mr A 
could certify copies of documents. It will be sending a cheque for £100 to his home address 
to compensate for this mistake. Aviva went on to explain that it had procedures in place to 
protect its customers and this meant that it needed to receive either original documents or 
appropriately certified copies to ensure they were authentic documents. While it understood 
that this may not be convenient for customers living or working abroad, it needed him to 
send it documents from the primary and secondary identification lists.
On 11 February 2022 Aviva wrote to Mr A again and asked him to complete and return the 
enclosed change of address form. It also explained that while it had received his driving 
licence, the utility bill he had provided (in his wifes name) was more than three months old, 
and so wasnt acceptable. It asked that he provided a secondary ID that contained his name 
and address, and which was dated within the previous three months.
Mr A remained unhappy with Avivas responses and referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and 
recommended that it be upheld. She accepted that Aviva had processes in place that 
needed to be followed before money could be paid out. However, she wasnt satisfied that it 
had made sufficient effort to take into account Mr As situation and consider alternative ways 
for him to evidence his address, given he couldnt provide a bank statement or utility bill. She recommended that Aviva allowed Mr A to provide alternative proof of address evidence and 
pay him an additional £200 compensation for the recent inconvenience and upset it had 
caused him.
Aviva didnt accept the investigators view as it said that it had tried to work with Mr A and 
had deviated from its set procedures to try to accommodate documents Mr A was able to 
supply. Aviva confirmed that it had told Mr A that his marriage certificate along with ID for 
Mrs A showing their address, would be acceptable to it. However, the ID that had been 
provided for Mrs A was out of date. It confirmed that if Mr A provided an up to date ID for 
Mrs A, it would release the policy proceeds. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2023, setting out my conclusions about the 
complaint and my reasons for reaching those conclusions. Below is an excerpt. I asked the 
parties to provide any further evidence or comments by 26 January 2023.
Financial services businesses are required to do what they can to protect their customers 
from fraudulent activities. So it is entirely reasonable for them to have in place procedures 
and checks that need to be completed before changes can be made to a policy record. As 
such, it wasnt unreasonable for Aviva to want to be satisfied that Mr A was its policyholder 
and that if it sent him the proceeds from the policy, it would be him receiving the money. 
However, its clear that Mr As circumstances caused problems because they mean that 
Mr A cant comply with the standard process. It appears from the evidence that Aviva has 
now provided that it took this into account, and in early June 2021, it decided that it would 
accept alternative evidence for the secondary ID requirement. However, it doesnt appear 
that it told Mr A that at the time  the only attempt appears to have been made by telephone 
and when Aviva was unable to speak to Mr A, it doesnt appear that it attempted to do so 
again and it continued to send out the standard ID requirements to him. 
This is clearly a service failing and I can only conclude that it delayed the resolution of this 
matter. That said, I dont think the matter would have immediately been resolved as it is clear 
that Mr A was concerned about posting Aviva his original passport or driving licence to Aviva 
in the UK, in the event he needed them. That concern is understandable, especially given 
the difficulties with global transportation. However, I do think it means that it is unlikely that, 
had Aviva told Mr A about its concession on the secondary ID, he would have immediately 
provided all that was necessary. It was not until late in 2021 that Mr A provided his original 
driving licence, and I dont think him knowing about the concession sooner would have 
altered that, given his concerns. 
However, I do think that had Mr A known about the alternative secondary ID requirements, it 
is likely that he would have provided the necessary documentation along with his driving 
licence. As such, I am satisfied that Mr As address should have been updated at that point, 
thereby allowing the policy proceeds to be paid out in line with Avivas service standards at 
the time. In response to this provisional decision Aviva should confirm what those service 
standards were at the time and, therefore, what date it would have paid out the value of 
Mr As policy, assuming it had met its standards. Interest should be paid on the maturity 
value from the date it should have been paid out to the date that it is. 
Interest should be calculated at a rate of 8% simple per year. If Aviva considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mr A, it 
should tell document how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A documentation 
showing this, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
That said, before Aviva can pay out the policy value, Mr A will need to provide it with an 
original copy of a utility bill in his wifes name, showing their address, that is dated within 
three months of him sending it. Once this is received, Aviva should immediately start the 
process to pay the policy value out. If it requires any forms completed for that to happen, it should send them to Mr A when it receives this provisional decision, so that he can return 
those forms and all the documentation required at the same time, so as to avoid further 
delays.
This matter has clearly been very frustrating for Mr A. Some of that was caused simply 
because of his circumstances and thats not Avivas fault. However, the poor communication 
has very clearly added to the frustration he has felt and caused unnecessary delays. As 
such, I am minded to award £250 compensation.
Both parties confirmed receipt of the provisional decision, but neither provided any further 
comment or evidence before the deadline or asked that the deadline be extended for them to 
do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further comment or new evidence in this case, I see no reason to alter 
my conclusions. 
Putting things right
In full and final settlement of this complaint, Aviva should calculate when, based on its 
normal service standards, the maturity value would have been paid out if the alternative 
secondary ID it had agreed to accept had been received at the same time as the driving 
licence in late 2021. 
Once Mr A provides the secondary ID documentation needed for the maturity value to be 
paid out, Aviva should do so. Interest* should be paid on the maturity value from the date it 
should have been paid out in 2021 to the date that it is. 
In addition, Aviva should pay Mr A £250 compensation.
*Interest should be calculated at a rate of 8% simple per year. If Aviva considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mr A, it 
should provide documentation showing the deduction, so he can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to 
complete the actions detailed and sums awarded in Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman