DRN-3350936
The complaint
Mrs Ds complaint against St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) is about an exit 
penalty she was charged when her ex-husbands pension was transferred to her as part of a 
court order following their divorce. Mrs D considers she didnt receive what she was entitled 
to in accordance with the courts Pension Sharing Order (PSO).
Mrs D also considers SJP provided misleading information about the exit penalty, and that 
its fees werent transparent. She is also unhappy with the way she was treated by the SJPs 
partner she was dealing with.
What happened
Mrs Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of 
the complaint to both parties in February 2022. The background and circumstances to the 
complaint were set out in that assessment. But in summary, Mrs Ds ex-husband (who I will 
largely refer to as Mr D), had set up a pension with SJP in 2017. When Mrs D got divorced 
from him the court issued a PSO (6 July 2020), assigning 100% of Mr Ds pension to Mrs D. 
And it said that pension sharing charges be apportioned between the parties 50/50. 
Mrs D contacted the partner in August 2020 to explain about the divorce and that Mr D 
should have contacted him to arrange for the pension to be transferred to her. The partner 
said that as it was a PSO it was effectively a pension transfer, and hed need to follow the 
appropriate advice process. 
There followed a series of e-mails exchanged between Mrs D and the partner about the 
costs of the transfer and the EWC (Early Withdrawal Charge). Mrs D sent the partner an e-
mail on 18 September 2020. This explained that she was speaking to other financial 
advisers and she wanted to be absolutely clear that she wasnt a client of the partner. She 
said she hadnt taken advice from him, but wanted to confirm that if she wished to move 
away from SJP there were no penalties or costs. The partner responded to say the 
documentation hed previously provided addressed what happened when the pension was 
transferred away, which he said was explained in an e-mail hed sent to Mrs D on 16 
September 2020. 
Following further exchanges Mrs D e-mailed the partner in November 2020 asking him to 
confirm the pension fund value and encashment value of £202,000 and £197,000 
respectively. And she asked for confirmation that the EWC was 2.5%, which equated to 
£5,000. 
The partner responded explaining that the transfer value was the relevant figure. He went 
onto explain why there were two figures, that SJP had waived its initial fee, however if the 
fund was transferred away within six years of establishment SJP would recover that fee. 
There was then an exchange of correspondence between Mrs Ds solicitor and Mr Ds 
solicitor. Mrs Ds solicitor said Mrs D would suffer a £5,000 cost, and requested that Mr D 
paid half. It subsequently said Mrs D was unaware that she would suffer a reduction in the 
value of the pension at the implementation of the PSO, and therefore didnt negotiate terms 
to include this within the proceedings. It said information should have been disclosed to Mrs 
D because of the substantial reduction in the value of the fund to be transferred - in this case 
a reduction of 2.5% equivalent to £5,000. The solicitor asked for full disclosure of the 
pension details that had been provided.
Mrs Ds solicitor e-mailed the partner on 1 December 2020.  It said Mrs D had been trying to
ascertain the truth about costs since 15 September 2020, but there was a lack of
transparency. It asked the partner to set out with clarity how the exit fee was calculated.
The partner responded to say that the transfer value was the same value for both Mrs D and 
Mr D if he were able to access the pension. He said that he had provided a written 
explanation at least three times about how the EWC worked, and had provided documents 
explaining the costs and charges.  He said Mrs D wasnt his client, and he was under the 
impression that Mrs D had engaged a financial adviser.
Following further exchanges a meeting was arranged for 28 January 2021, but that meeting 
was subsequently cancelled by the partner. Mrs D sent an e-mail to the partner on 30 
January 2021 expressing disappointment at not meeting. Mrs D said she accepted that to 
transfer the pension into her name a fee had to be paid as the pension hadnt been with SJP 
for six years. However what she didnt understand was what the fee was, as she had been 
told several different names for the EWC, which she felt was effectively an exit penalty.
Having considered the circumstances of the complaint, the investigator didnt recommend 
that it should be upheld. He said, in summary, that the PSO said Mrs D was entitled to 100% 
of the cash equivalent value, which was the transfer value after the EWC was levied; the 
sum Mr D would have received if hed transferred the pension himself. 
The investigator said he thought the EWC had been explained to Mrs D on more than one 
occasion, directly by the partner, and in documentation that had been sent to her. The 
investigator said the evidence suggested SJPs partner reasonably understood Mrs D had 
engaged her own financial adviser, and hed alerted her that her financial adviser should 
submit a Letter of Authority to the administration centre to allow them to access information 
as required. However this didnt appear to have happened. He said both Mrs D and the 
partner had agreed that Mrs D wasnt his client, and so the investigator said he didnt think 
the partner was obliged to deal with what Mrs D was requesting. 
The investigator said the court order said Mrs D was entitled to 100% of the CEV, and 
therefore the EWC wasnt part of that sum and it wasnt an exit penalty. He thought the EWC 
was outside of what Mrs D was entitled too. And he didnt think the partner had acted 
unprofessionally overall. 
Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators findings. She said, in summary, that the partner 
had gone to great lengths to provide information about the EWC, but nobody would confirm it 
was an exit fee until she was told by SJPs Complaint Resolution team in April 2021. 
She said the EWC was applied on a sliding scale, and nobody would tell her what the actual 
charge would be. She said SJPs fees werent transparent, and they didnt disclose what the 
charges were for  initial advice, ongoing advice, and an annual management charge. 
Mrs D said Section C of the Pension Sharing annex - Details of the Transferors Pension 
Arrangement - was the only section of the court order that covered the Cash Equivalent 
Value (CEV). She said its whole purpose was to clarify how much of the pension was being 
transferred. In her case it was 100% of the CEV. She said Section D  Pension Sharing 
Charges - was a separate section, and identified how much each party was responsible for 
any charges. She said she understood that there would be exit penalties to transfer. But she needed in 
writing how much the exit fee actually was as she had effectively already paid them in the 
Cash Equivalent Transfer Value. So she was paying 100% of the fee, and not 50% as stated 
by the Pension Sharing Annex. 
Mrs D also said she thought the partner had breached the following Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Principles;
Integrity
Customers Interests 
Communication with Clients
Conflicts of Interest.
She said she thought if she had been a man I think the tone of the emails would be 
dramatically different as if I had my ex husbands disposable income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its worth clarifying that I can only consider the complaint about the actions of SJP in 
implementing the PSO. I have no powers over Mr D, or indeed any of the other parties 
involved in the matter. I cant, for example, order Mr D to pay Mrs D 50% of the EWC.
The Pension Sharing Annex said, amongst other things:
The specified percentage of the members CEV to be transferred  100%.
And 
The pension sharing charges to be apportioned between the parties as follows 50;50.
I can understand Mrs Ds position here, because the order can be read that 100% of the 
Cash Equivalent Value (CEV) should be transferred  suggesting the higher value be 
transferred. But it can also be read shed get 100% of the members CEV to be transferred. 
And the CEV to be transferred is the amount reduced by the EWC  the transfer value 
available. As I understand it, the courts generally refer to CEV, as in some circumstances 
theres no right to transfer from a scheme, and so theres no transfer value available.
Transfer values can be lower where, for example, a plans structure is such that a firm 
recovers initial charges over a period of time, and an investor wants to transfer away from 
the plan within that period. That is the case here. If SJP was required to pay the full CEV (or 
waive 50% of the EWC) it would, in effect, be being penalised through the PSO. 
I also dont think pension sharing charges necessarily relates to the EWC either. The EWC 
is a charge applied to the pension that reduces the value available for transfer purposes 
prior to transfer, rather than a charge relating to the pension sharing itself (i.e. the costs of 
implementing the pension sharing). As I said, if the firm were required to waive 50% of the 
EWC it would penalise the firm who obviously arent part of the divorce settlement. The order 
may have meant it was payable outside of the pension, but then that isnt a matter for SJP.
In any event, I think if there was any ambiguity in the order it was a matter to be referred back to the court. And more widely, what the intention of the parties were prior to the order is 
a matter between Mrs D and her ex-husband.
But in all the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to conclude that SJP was wrong to 
assume the PSO was referring to the transfer value (i.e. the value after the EWCs had been 
applied  - which was in effect 100% of the transfer value), or that it should somehow have 
made allowance for only 50% of the EWC to apply. As I say, I dont think the pension sharing 
charges to be apportioned 50/50 was referring to the EWC. But again, the courts intentions 
are a matter for the court.
Strictly speaking, I think Mrs Ds relationship with SJP was in it implementing the PSO. She 
confirmed she wasnt the partners client. But the partner was exchanging correspondence 
with her that was effectively connected to the PSO, and so Ive considered Mrs Ds concerns 
about her dealings with the partner.
Mrs Ds correspondence with SJP and its partner after the PSO had been made didnt 
impact on the amount that she was entitled to through the court order. I accept there was 
extensive correspondence exchanged. And that Mrs D was  understandably  trying to 
ensure she received what she was entitled to. But for the reasons Ive mentioned above, I 
dont think the issue was straightforward because of the slight technical differences in the 
terminology used and the meaning of the PSO. 
Mrs D was initially enquiring about the costs if she decided to transfer the pension away from 
SJP. And I think the adviser did initially explain about the EWC in terms of Mrs D transferring 
away. But then I think her queries were focused more on establishing that the EWC was an 
exit penalty or fee so that they would be shared 50/50 with Mr D. Mrs D has said nobody 
would confirm the EWC was an exit fee until she was told by SJPs Complaint Resolution 
team in April 2021. 
As Ive said, this was after the PSO had been made. I understand the queries raised by Mrs 
D with the partner, and the reasons for them. But having considered the content of the 
responses, I dont think they were misleading, or that the partner was trying to misdirect Mrs 
D. I think they were reasonable attempts to answer the queries raised, and that he explained 
the fees/charges appropriately  albeit I accept it would have been frustrating for Mrs D in 
the context of her understanding of the PSO.
Ive also considered the correspondence in light of what Mrs D said about the way she felt 
the partner treated her in their dealings. In particular she said she felt insulted and 
patronised; that the partner provided an unprofessional service, and failed to follow the 
FCAs Principles I set out above. 
Ive read through all the correspondence including that of 8 December 2019 which Mrs D 
specifically referred to. I understand that the partner had primarily been Mr Ds adviser, and 
that Mrs D had previous only had limited dealings with him. Going through a divorce can 
clearly be a very difficult time, and Mrs D has said she found the whole divorce process very 
stressful. Ive considered the correspondence in this context. 
However having done so, I dont think it comes across in the way that Mrs D has said  
albeit, clearly, I accept thats how it felt for Mrs D. I accept Mrs D would have been very 
frustrated given the difficulty in clarifying the EWC/whether it was a fee/penalty, and how it 
should be appropriately treated in the implementation of the PSO. But as Ive explained 
above, I think the frustration was - at least in part - because the matter wasnt as 
straightforward as it might have appeared. I dont think the partners correspondence was 
obviously unprofessional or inappropriate tone wise, or otherwise failed to meet the FCAs 
Principles or standards.Overall therefore, whilst I appreciate the difficulties and frustration the matter caused to     
Mrs D, Im not persuaded that the complaint should succeed. 
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman