DRN-3340539
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr S complain that Covea Insurance plc wrongly declined a claim after their car 
was stolen.
What happened
Mrs D has a car insurance policy underwritten by Covea. Mr S is also named in the policy as 
a driver of the vehicle in question.
In June 2021, Mrs D made a claim after her car was stolen. The incident must have been 
shocking and terrifying for Mrs D.
In short, she was driving out of a social club where shed been carrying out some voluntary 
work. She stopped in a short driveway adjacent to the road in order to close and lock the 
gate to the club car park behind her. 
Mrs D had left her car keys in the ignition and her handbag  with phones, bank cards etc.  
inside the car. Whilst she was at the gate, a man ran to her car, jumped in and drove off.
Mrs D says she had time to grab the front door of the car but had to let go as the man drove 
off, for fear of being dragged along the road.
Mrs D reported the incident to the police using a phone provided by a passer-by. And she 
later made a claim to Covea.
Covea carried out some investigations and then declined the claim. They said Mrs D had left 
her car open and unattended, with the keys inside. And they referred Mrs D to exclusions in 
her policy which allowed them to decline a claim in those circumstances.
Mrs D thought this was unfair and made a complaint to Covea. And when they maintained 
their position, she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Covea hadnt acted fairly and reasonably in their 
handling of Mrs Ds claim. He said they should reconsider the claim as Mrs D hadnt left the 
car unattended. And he thought they should pay Mrs D £150 in compensation for her trouble 
and upset.
Covea disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.   
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no real dispute here about the facts of the case. Mrs D has acknowledged that she 
left the keys in the car when she went to close the gate. Thats how the thief was able to 
jump into the car and drive away.
Coveas investigator measured the distance from the gate to the front door of the car at 
around eight metres. Looking at the photographs in his report, that must be the maximum 
distance from the end of the gate, when fully open (it opened inwards into the car park) to 
the front end of the car door. 
As the investigator says in his report, Mrs D was likely closer than eight metres at most if not 
all times during the incident. The investigator says she was five metres from the drivers door 
of the car when she was locking the gate. 
Given that the average car is around four and a half metres long, tip to tail, I think that might 
be a slight overestimate, but I dont think a metre or two here or there is relevant, for reasons 
Ill explain.
The policy says, quite clearly, that Covea will not cover any loss if:
(the) ignition keys are left unattended in or on the car whilst it is unattended.
Or where:
(the) car was not switched off, properly locked or if any door, window, roof 
opening was left open or unlocked.  
And the policy  again perfectly clearly  says the customer must: 
  take all reasonable steps to protect the car from any loss or damage. 
That kind of exclusion or condition are common in car insurance policies. Theyre flagged 
and prominent in the policy booklet and theyre referred to in the insurance policy information 
document (IPID) which summarises the significant terms of the policy and is sent to the 
customer at purchase and renewal.
In my view, the second exclusion Ive quoted above is pretty much redundant. Any normal 
reading of that clause, when you take into account the other exclusions set out in the policy 
(especially the one quoted first above), would be that you need to lock and secure your car 
when you park it and leave it. Thats not what Mrs D was doing in this case.
So, given that we know the keys were in the car, the question for me to decide is whether 
Mrs D left her car unattended. And whether she took reasonable steps to protect it from 
loss or damage.
I dont think its fair or reasonable to say that Mrs D left her car unattended. She was there 
throughout the incident, saw the thief approach and enter her car, and was close enough to 
get a hand on to or inside the car door before it was driven away.
I can understand Coveas position. And Ill concede that its difficult to define exactly how far 
away from their car someone would need to be, in what individual circumstances, in order to 
say the car was unattended. 
Id say someone leaving their keys in their car and going into a shop, or going to pay for 
petrol, for example, might usually be described as leaving their car unattended  even if they 
were only gone for a very short time. Although there might be other very specific individual circumstances that would need to be taken into account.
I think the key question in these cases is whether the driver was in a position to deter the 
theft of the car, or to make it unlikely. If you leave your car out of sight, with the keys inside, 
for more than a short moment, you might rightly be said to have left it unattended. In that 
case, a thief has a window of opportunity to take the car without challenge and/or without 
being seen.
In Mrs Ds case, she was right there when the theft took place. She saw the thief approach 
and enter the car (she wasnt turned away attending to the gates lock at the relevant time). 
She was able to grab the car and challenge the thief. She was able to see him close up and 
presumably provide a description - and he would have been aware of that.
So, Im satisfied Mrs D was in a position to deter the theft of her car and to make it unlikely. 
The fact that the thief went ahead and took the car doesnt prove there was no deterrent 
because of Mrs Ds close proximity. He simply decided to ignore Mrs Ds hand on or in the 
car and to risk being recognised in future. 
The circumstances arent exactly the same obviously, but Im sure Covea wouldnt decline a 
claim where the perpetrator physically assaulted or threatened a driver in order to steal their 
car. Mrs D is relatively elderly and was in no position to physically stop the thief, but her 
presence at such close proximity would, in my view, have been a deterrent to the crime 
nonetheless.
So, I dont think Mrs D can reasonably be said to have left her car unattended. And I dont 
think it would be fair to say that she hadnt taken reasonable steps to protect her car from 
loss or damage. 
I might take a different view if the policy terms said that Covea would not cover any theft 
where the keys were inside or on the car and the driver wasnt inside or with the keys. As 
long as those terms were very clearly flagged up to the customer before they took out the 
policy. 
In that case, the customer would know in advance that they could not leave their keys in the 
car under any circumstances, even momentarily. And Covea might reasonably say that the 
terms excluded this kind of loss. Insurers are entitled to decide what risk they wish to cover 
at what price.
But as things stand, the terms are clear. The exclusion applies where the keys are in the car 
and the car is left unattended. And Im satisfied most reasonable observers would not agree 
with Covea that Mrs D had left her car unattended when she went to close the gate behind 
her. 
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that Covea must now reconsider the claim, on the basis that the 
exclusions around leaving the car unattended and the condition about taking reasonable 
steps to prevent loss or damage do not justify a decision to decline the claim in this case.
I also agree that Mrs D and Mr S have experienced a degree of frustration and stress about 
the decision to decline the claim and that £150 would be fair and reasonable compensation 
for their trouble and upset.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs D and Mr Ss complaint.
Covea Insurance plc must:
reconsider Mrs D and Mr Ss claim; and
pay Mrs D and Mr S £150 in compensation for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman