DRN-4334986
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax provided after they 
were the victims of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Where the circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties, I wont detail them 
again here. Rather, Ill focus on setting out the key reasons for my decision. I hope Halifax 
and Mr M wont take this as a discourtesy; its just a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
Firstly, I have thought about whether Mr Ms complaint can be considered in light of the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). But Halifax are under no obligation to refund the 
money to Mr M under the CRM Code, as the Code only applies to payments made to 
another person (which wouldnt have been the case here given the payments were made to 
an account Mr M had with an e-money institution (EMI).
Its not in dispute that Mr M authorised the disputed payments in question. On 13 March 
2023 he sent the first payment of £500 to an account in his own name which he had with an 
EMI. Following this Mr M sent a further £5,756.60 between 13 March and 15 March 2023 to 
the same account.
I accept that Mr M didnt intend for his money to go to the fraudsters, under the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  Mr M is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance 
as the payments were authorised by him. This is unless there is sufficient evidence that 
Halifax should fairly and reasonably have done more to protect Mr M.
Halifax does have a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments, and one of the 
reasons for this is to prevent fraud and scams. Halifax needs to have systems in place to 
look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its consumers are at risk 
of fraud. With that in mind, Ive considered whether Halifax should have considered these 
payments as being sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic that it ought to have given it 
sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud.
Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Halifax systems to 
have been triggered by the payment in dispute. I say this because the first payment which 
was made to an account in Mr M own name was for £500, which isnt a substantially high 
amount. The second amount Mr M transferred was for £2,200 (which was the highest value 
payment Mr M sent. The other payment were between £10 and £1,368.
I accept that this was Mr Ms representative has said that it feels Mr Ms account activity 
changed with the scam payments. But I disagree. I am satisfied that the payments Mr M 
made were neither uncharacteristic or unusual. I say this because, having reviewed Mr Ms 
account activity, I can see there were other similar transactions in the last six months, to 
highlight one of them, £1,900 in the six months prior to the scam. I accept that the £2,200 
payment was one of the highest values of expenditure on Mr Ms account, but in context of 
what I would generally expect a bank to identify as suspiciously large, the amount itself isnt 
remarkably high) it was still in line with the pattern of behaviour and spending on the 
account.
I have also considered the pattern of the behaviour. Mr Ms representative has confirmed 
that Mr M had used his savings to fund the scam. And having reviewed the statements, I can 
see that around the time of the scam, money would be transferred into Mr Ms account (from 
his saving account) and transferred out to an account in Mr Ms name. As the transfer had 
come from Mr Ms savings account, Im satisfied this didnt look particularly suspicious and 
as such Halifaxs systems were unlikely to have triggered. I say this because the very nature 
of savings account is for customers to do just that, save, usually for something specific. 
Therefore, it is not unusual for larger one-off payments to be made. 
So, I cant reasonably conclude there was anything to indicate any suspicious
circumstances around where the money was being transferred to as it was an account in Mr 
Ms name. I also have to bear in mind that if banks such as Halifax were to be expected
to intervene with every payment of a similar size to the ones being disputed here -
and to accounts in a consumers own name - it could risk grinding the banking
system to a halt.
For the reasons I have explained above, I am satisfied that neither amount was
remarkably large or significantly uncharacteristic of Mr Ms pattern of spending, particularly 
given he was using his savings. Consequently, I dont think Halifax could reasonably have 
known that these payments were subject of a scam. The payments were not
significant enough to have triggered its systems; nor were there sufficient grounds to
justify delaying the payments.
I have gone on to consider if Halifax took reasonable steps to try and recover the
funds. As Mr M had transferred the funds to an account in his own name (EMI account), and 
then out of the EMI account to the scammer, I am persuaded that it was highly unlikely that 
Halifax would be able to facilitate the recovery of the payments after they were moved on 
from M Ms EMI account to the scammers. So, I dont think I can hold Halifax responsible for 
Mr M being unable to recover his funds.
All things considered, and despite my natural empathy for this cruel scam and the situation
finds himself in having lost his money, Im not persuaded Halifax taking different
actions would have prevented the payments being made, or the loss that ensued, for the
reasons I have explained. It follows that I do not consider it fair or reasonable to require
Halifax to do anything beyond what it has already done for this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Jade RoweOmbudsman