DRN-3746790
The complaint
Mr M complains that Society of Lloyds avoided his motor insurance policy (treated it as if it 
never existed). He wants it to remove this marker from his record.
What happened
Mr M took out a short-term motor insurance policy with Lloyds through a brokers online 
comparison site in order to drive his daughters car to a garage. Three days later, Lloyds 
avoided the policy. Lloyds said Mr M had answered the question hed been asked about 
previous claims in the past three years incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy and retain the premiums. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it should be not upheld. She 
thought Lloyds had asked a clear question about previous claims. She thought Mr M had 
answered this incorrectly. She thought Lloyds wouldnt have provided cover without the 
misrepresentation. And she thought the misrepresentation was reckless as Mr M knew he 
had previous claims and that this was important to Lloyds.  
Mr M doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He 
thought he had made an honest mistake and had no reason to make a misrepresentation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has explained the very serious impact that the avoidance will have on him and his 
family. And I was sorry to hear about this.
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Lloyds thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
ticked a box in an application for cover on a brokers website to agree that:
I have had less than 3 fault accidents, claims or losses in connection with any motor vehicle 
in the last 3 years
Mr M said that this wasnt the question he was expecting. But I think this was a clear 
question asked by Lloyds on the online application Mr M used. I think if Mr M had trouble 
understanding any questions, then he could reasonably have sought assistance. 
And Im satisfied that Mr M answered this question incorrectly. This is because he has told 
us that he has had more than three fault claims in the past three years. And this was 
confirmed by Lloyds. And so I think Mr M didnt take reasonable care when he answered the 
question. 
Lloyds has provided evidence from its underwriters to show that it wouldnt have offered 
cover at all if Mr M hadnt made the misrepresentation. And so Im satisfied that the 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.  
Lloyds has said Mr Ms misrepresentation was deliberate because he should have 
reasonably known that he had the previous fault claims. But I agree with the Investigator that 
the misrepresentation was reckless because Mr M knew that this information about his 
claims history was important to Lloyds, but he didnt answer the question it asked correctly. 
Mr M said he was in a rush and didnt intend to make a mistake. I dont doubt this. But this 
doesnt mean that Mr M didnt make a reckless misrepresentation. This is because Mr M has 
explained that he knew that this question was important to Lloyds and he answered it 
incorrectly. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ms misrepresentation should be treated as reckless Ive looked at the 
actions Lloyds can take in accordance with CIDRA. In the case of deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentations, CIDRA entitled Lloyds to do the following:
The insurer can avoid the policy and keep the premiums
If theres a claim the insurer dont have to pay this as effectively the policy never 
existed
The insurer may also look to recover any costs its paid to a third party on any claim 
after the misrepresentation
Therefore, Im satisfied Lloyds was entitled to avoid Mr Ms policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Lloyds to rely on it to avoid Mr Ms policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman