DRN-3425334
The complaint
Mr C complains that Starling Bank Limited will not refund the money he lost when he fell 
victim to an investment scam.
Mr C is represented in his complaint by solicitors, but for clarity I will refer to Mr C 
throughout, even where submissions have been made on his behalf. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail here. Briefly, Mr C was recommended an investment fund that traded in currency and 
cryptocurrency by a family friend. Mr C had seen the company advertised on a financial 
website that he uses so thought it was genuine. He also knew people that had been 
investing successfully and were able to make withdrawals from their accounts. He explains 
that he undertook his own online research, including looking at the FCA register and 
exploring previous trades completed by the brokerage which appeared legitimate. Mr C 
decided to invest and contacted the brokerage. He sent just over £5,000 to an overseas 
bank account. 
Unfortunately, Mr C wasnt interacting with a genuine company. He was really dealing with a 
fraudster. The scam was uncovered when Mr C was unable to withdraw funds. This was 
around seven months after Mr C had sent the money. He contacted Starling. The bank tried 
to recover the money Mr C had sent but none remained.
Mr C raised concerns and said the bank had failed in its duty of care to question him about 
the payment at the time. In its final response, Starling said it wasnt obliged to act as an 
amateur detective to investigate whether the recipient of the funds was genuine. 
Mr C was unhappy with the banks position to not refund the payment and referred his 
complaint to this service. He said banks are subject to various rules and regulations which 
are aimed at protecting customers who are innocent victims of a scam. He said at no point 
did he believe this company to be a scam and he wouldnt have lost such a significant 
amount of money if the bank had frozen the payment to allow authentication that the 
company he was paying was legitimate. 
One of our Investigators considered the matter but did not recommend that it should be 
upheld. She agreed the payment was unusual when contrasted to the normal running of the 
account. But she was not persuaded that interaction from Starling would have unravelled the 
scam and prevented Mr C from making the payment. 
She placed weight on what Mr C had said about his research, which had involved checking 
the FCA register and contacting a linked company to confirm it had a connection with the 
broker. She noted that Mr C had worked for an investment bank for many years and she felt 
he was comfortable with the risks involved when doing business with companies based 
outside of the UK. She also highlighted the positive experiences of Mr Cs relatives and 
family friends and considered they would have swayed his thinking. 
Mr C did not agree. He said Starling should have called him at the time he was making the 
payment and then checked the FCA website whilst they were speaking, which would have 
uncovered the warnings. He thought it was unjust that he wasnt given the opportunity to 
discuss the payment with the bank and that it was unjust to assume that he would have 
continued to make the payment regardless. He added that if Starling had asked about the 
investments rate of return, the bank would have been aware that it was a red flag. 
Our Investigator explained that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect the bank to check 
the FCA register on a consumers behalf whilst on the phone before advising a consumer if 
they should invest or not. She pointed out that the banks helpline staff are unlikely to have 
been trained to give specific investment advice. She explained that she had taken into 
consideration the information Mr C already knew about the company from his research, his 
experience including his background in investing and what she would have expected the 
bank to have done. On balance, she remained unpersuaded that the bank would have been 
able to uncover the scam and stop Mr C from making the payment even if it had intervened. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been referred to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should Starling have 
recognised Mr Cs payment as being suspicious and intervened, and if it had done so, would 
it have made a difference to what happened. 
Having considered whether Starling could, or should, have done more to stop Mr C making 
the payment he did, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask Starling to take responsibility 
to refund the money Mr C has lost. I can understand this will be a very disappointing 
outcome for Mr C so I will explain why. 
I accept Mr C has been the victim of a sophisticated scam. But that alone doesnt mean he 
must be reimbursed in full by the bank.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Although the 
money was not intended to go to a fraudster, Mr C is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
But taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Starling 
should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.  In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. 
Starling should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character situations, such as a 
customer making a larger payment then they would typically make to a new payee. These 
can be indicators that a transaction could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
In this case, there is no question that Mr C was making a transaction that was significantly 
out of character for him. Looking at his account statements, the largest payment Mr C had 
made in the six months leading up to the scam was for approximately £85. Hed never made 
an international payment to a new payee before. This means that a payment of just over 
£5,000 stood out and I think Starling should have done more to satisfy itself that Mr C was 
not at risk of making a payment that would cause him financial harm. 
Even though I think Starling ought to have intervened, this in and of itself isnt enough for me 
to say that the bank should refund all of the money Mr C went on to lose. I also need to be 
persuaded that its intervention would have made a significant difference and ultimately 
prevented the payment from being made. 
I can appreciate that Mr C strongly considers that it would have done and that this at the 
very essence of his complaint. But I am mindful that it was only much later that Mr C 
discovered the situation was not what he believed it was. 
I have to base my findings on the balance of probability- this is what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened, taking into account what I know from the information that is 
available to me. Having thought about whether Starlings intervention would have prevented 
Mr Cs loss, on balance, I am not persuaded interaction with the bank would have been 
enough to stop him from sending the money at the time he made the payment. 
Why wouldnt Starlings intervention have made a difference? 
If the transaction had flagged up as being unusual as I think it should have done, Id have 
expected Starling to have contacted Mr C and asked questions about the nature and 
purpose of the payment he wanted to make.
I think Mr C would have told Starling that he was making an investment via a firm based 
abroad. I am persuaded Mr C would have been open with the bank about the transaction as 
at this time he believed he was dealing with a genuine company. 
Even though Mr C would have most likely told Starling the purpose of the payment was 
linked to an investment, I dont think it should have just accepted that rationale at face value. 
At the time this payment was made, Starling was well aware of the prevalence of investment 
scams and the hallmarks of how these scams operate. 
With this in mind Id have expected Starling to ask Mr C some questions about the payment, 
in the context of the particular features of this type of investment scam. For example, 
Starling could have asked questions such as, but not limited to, what the payment was for, 
whether Mr C had been looking to invest, what research he had done, whether he had been 
cold called. If the bank had asked these, or similar questions, Im persuaded Mr C would 
have been able to confidently answer these questions without concerning Starling he might 
be at risk of financial harm.
I think Mr C would have explained that he was looking to invest in a specific investment fund and that members of his immediate family were also successfully investing in that fund. 
I think Mr C would have told the bank about his own research and its possible, given Mr Cs 
background in investment banking, that he would have approached that conversation with 
more knowledge and experience than the banks helpline staff. 
Mr C considers that Starling should have checked the FCA register whilst on the phone to 
him and if it had done so, it would have uncovered information pertinent to the legitimacy of 
the company. But it is not reasonable to expect a bank to undertake research on a 
consumers behalf and the bank is not able to make the investment decision for its customer. 
I would have expected Starling to mention FCA register to Mr C and to explain the relevance 
of this register in protecting himself from the potential of financial harm from fraud. But if 
Starling had raised the FCA register with Mr C, I think he would have told the bank that hed 
already consulted the register when undertaking his research. Im also mindful that not all 
unregulated investments are scams, which is important to factor in because at this point in 
time, Mr C knew other people who had made this same investment and things were going 
well. I think this would have been a powerful consideration, giving Mr C the further 
confidence that he was making a payment to a legitimate source. 
Looking at the situation as a whole, Im not persuaded that intervention from Starling would 
have prevented the payment from being made. Its likely the information Mr C would have 
provided if asked to do so would have been enough to satisfy Starling that he was not at risk 
of financial harm. So I dont think Starlings failure to intervene has resulted in the loss Mr C 
has suffered. 
Ive also thought what Starling did when Mr C reported he had been the victim of a scam. 
From what I have seen, Starling contacted the receiving bank quickly when it learnt of what 
had happened but sadly no funds remained to be recovered. This is not surprising given that 
the payment had been made many months before. By the time the scam was uncovered, the 
likelihood of any recovery was always going to be remote. 
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr C. Theres no question that he sent his money in good 
faith. Its a lot of money for anyone to lose so I do understand why he wants to do all that he 
can to pursue the matter. But I cant fairly hold Starling responsible for the actions of a 
fraudster. I can only look at Starlings position on Mr Cs fraud claim and decide whether the 
bank are responsible for an act or omission that either allowed the scam to happen or 
resulted in a failure to recover money that would have otherwise been returned. For the 
reasons I have explained, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think Mr C would have 
been in a different position if Starling had done more than it did. As such, I cant fairly ask 
Starling to refund the money that he has lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman