DRN-3994258
The complaint
Miss L complains, in summary, about the customer service provided by Salary Finance 
Limited (SF) in relation to a personal loan that she wanted to repay early. 
What happened
Miss L borrowed a loan of £23,000 from Salary Finance Loans Limited (SFLL) in May 2021 
to be repaid over 60 months. SF carries out servicing for SFLL. In late January 2022, Miss L 
contacted SF to ask for an early settlement statement. She received a statement dated       
31 January 2022 which said that £21,331.90 was the amount to repay assuming any regular 
repayments were made on time. This figure was valid to 28 February 2022. 
Miss L then asked SF on 8 February 2022 if the settlement amount included the monthly 
loan repayment for February 2022 as she didnt want to overpay. SF responded on                           
9 February 2022 that the repayment due on 21 February 2022 should be made as normal on 
top of the settlement amount. 
Miss L then asked SF for another settlement figure on 19 February 2022. Miss L also paid 
her regular monthly repayment of £594.45 on 21 February 2022. She didnt receive the 
updated settlement figure and chased SF for it on 9 March 2022. SF then provided a 
settlement statement dated 11 March 2022 which said she needed to repay £21,534.39 by                   
19 March 2022, assuming any regular repayments were made on time. 
Miss L then contacted SF on 11 March 2022 to say shed made her monthly repayment in 
February 2022 which meant that the settlement amount should be reduced.
SF responded to Miss L on 14 March 2022 to say that as Miss L had asked for two 
settlement figures on 31 January 2022 and 19 February 2022, and as the second settlement 
figure was raised within 28 days, the second settlement figure wasnt correct. It said that 
Miss L should contact it after19 March 2022 so that SF could provide the correct figure.
However, Miss L then paid £20,939.94 to SF on 15 March 2022. This was lower than either 
of the settlement figures she had received from SF. 
Miss L heard nothing further from the lender until she contacted it on 31 May 2022 to ask for 
confirmation that the loan was cleared and that she didnt owe it any more money.  She was 
worried shed not been told that her loan had been closed down. 
SF responded on 14 June 2022 to tell Miss L that shed sent it an amount which was lower 
than the settlement figure. An annual loan statement dated 31 May 2022 said that £564.72 
was due to it although Miss L said she didnt receive the statement.
Miss L said that as SF had left it so long without contacting her, she wasnt in a position to 
pay the money owed to it. Miss L would like SF to settle the loan and close it down as she 
thought she had already settled it.
In its final response letter, SF partially upheld Miss Ls complaint. It was satisfied that the 
balance outstanding was correct, although it acknowledged that it should have taken steps 
to communicate this with her much sooner. SF apologised and offered Miss L £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. It also said that Miss Ls credit file hadnt been impacted 
as it had recorded Miss Ls account as up to date and it said that she should contact it to set 
up a repayment arrangement to repay the balance.    
Our investigators view
The investigator agreed with SFs offer to provide Miss L with £50 compensation as a result 
of the distress and inconvenience caused due to the lack of notification for over two months 
that she still had a balance to pay on her loan. He also said that SF shouldnt write off the 
loan balance, as the settlement letter was clear in terms of what was required.
Miss L disagreed. She said that SF gave her the settlement figure knowing that she was still 
to make another payment to the loan. So, she had met that settlement figure with the 
payments she made. She then didnt receive a receipt for the loan settlement amount, and 
she didnt hear from SF for several months until she sent it an email. If she hadnt emailed 
the lender, she still wouldnt have heard from it. The amount of £50 was also poor 
compensation for the error made and the amount of anxiety, stress and time this had caused 
her and the balance due was unaffordable for her.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss L
and to SF on 2 February 2023. I summarise my findings:
Id noted how strongly Miss L felt about her complaint. I said that I wanted to assure her that 
Id carried out an independent review and considered everything that both parties had 
submitted and would comment on everything that made a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
The situation around early settlements on this loan was explained in Condition 12 of SFs 
loan agreement, which said that:-
You can always repay the loan early by giving us notice using the details under Important 
Information below and paying the amount you owe us including interest up to the date of 
your payment. If you ask us, we will give you a settlement statement showing the amount 
needed to repay the loan. We will calculate this amount based on a settlement date of 28 
days after the date of your request - or, if you wish to repay the loan on a later date, we will 
base the settlement date and amount on the date of your choosing.
The two settlement statements SF provided made it clear that the settlement figures 
assumed regular repayments were made on time, which was in line with this. I also noted 
that Miss L was told by SF on 9 February 2022 that the monthly loan repayment was to be 
made as normal on top of the settlement amount. So, I thought SF had made it clear to    
Miss L that the settlement figures werent to be reduced by the monthly repayment amount.
Overall, I thought Miss L should have reasonably known from SFs correspondence and the 
loan agreement that the amount shed sent it to repay the loan wasnt the amount it had 
asked her for on any of its settlement statements and following the lenders email on                      
14 March 2022 wasnt likely to be correct. I couldnt see anywhere that it was agreed 
between SF and Miss L that this would settle her loan. So, while I realised that Miss L might have been understandably confused here, I was satisfied that the correct position was that 
there was an amount outstanding on the loan, based on what shed paid.
But I also would have reasonably expected SF to have acknowledged the loan repayment 
and contacted Miss L promptly about the shortfall. SF accepted it should have done this.
Id then taken into account SFs failures to provide settlement figures in a timely and correct 
way. For example, it took over 20 days to provide a figure in response to the request on     
19 February 2022 and then in March 2022 it issued settlement figures but then said these 
were incorrect. It was likely that these delays would increase the settlement figure by the 
extra interest accruing over time. It would also have meant that Miss L would have had to 
make another monthly loan repayment if she had to contact it again after 19 March 2022. SF 
was also aware that Miss L was repaying its loan with a loan from another provider with a 
lower interest rate. 
Id asked the investigator to ask SF what the settlement figures would have been had it 
provided Miss L with prompt and correct settlement figures on 19 February 2022 and                  
11 March 2022, and in view of my concerns, whether it would consider reducing the 
outstanding loan balance. I couldnt see wed received a response to these queries. But I 
thought the outstanding loan balance should be adjusted in view of SFs delays in providing 
a correct settlement figure. 
Id noted that Miss L was concerned that she didnt have the money to repay the loan 
balance to SF. Shed told us that she started to become anxious about the issue in          
May 2022 when shed contacted SF and she believed that £75 compensation would be fair 
bearing in mind the compensation awards this Service makes as set out on our website. I 
thought £75 compensation was an appropriate amount for SF to pay Miss L here for her 
upset and inconvenience.  
Taking everything into account, I didnt think that SF had acted reasonably. Subject to any 
further representations by Miss L or SF, my provisional decision was that I intended to 
uphold this complaint in part, and I set out in it how SF should put things right (which is 
shown below under the heading Putting things right  what SF needs to do). 
Miss L responded to my provisional decision to say that she had no final points to make.
SF responded to my provisional decision to say it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Miss L and SF have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
uphold this complaint in part and require SF to take the following steps:-
Putting things right  what SF needs to do
Pay Miss L £75 compensation for inconvenience and distress. 
The outstanding balance on the loan should be adjusted by SF as follows. I note that Miss L 
asked SF for a settlement statement on 19 February 2022 which was a Saturday. I think it 
would have been reasonable for SF to have provided her with a settlement statement by                 
25 February 2022. SF should ascertain the settlement figure which would have appeared in 
a settlement statement provided to Miss L on 25 February 2022. It should then deduct from this figure the amount of £20,939.94 (which Miss L paid SF on 15 March 2022) and any 
other adjustments it would have made as a result of receiving £20,939.94 on 15 March 2022 
and the monthly repayment on 21 February 2022. SF should then rework the loan account 
so that the outstanding loan balance due is adjusted to the amount remaining (after making 
the above calculation) less any payments made since by Miss L. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss L along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of the overpayment to the date of 
settlement.
I note that Miss L may be having financial difficulties. If an outstanding balance remains, 
then SF should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss L, bearing in mind its 
obligation to treat her positively and sympathetically in these discussions. Once any 
outstanding balance has been repaid, SF should remove any adverse information recorded 
on Miss Ls credit file as a result of the early settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SF to take off tax from this interest. SF must
give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Salary Finance Limited to pay Miss L the compensation and to take the 
steps as set out above under the heading Putting things right  what SF needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman