DRN-3322693
The complaint
Mrs L complains that a holiday she party paid for with her Nationwide Building Society credit 
card was not of satisfactory quality. Because she used her credit card, she says that 
Nationwide should compensate her. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mrs L booked a caravan holiday for summer 2021. She paid the deposit of 
£149 with her Nationwide credit card. The total cost of the holiday was £489.
Mrs L and her family were disappointed with the holiday and in July 2021 she complained to 
the holiday provider, P. She had asked for a pet-free caravan, but initially none was 
available. The caravan that was provided was poorly equipped, worn, and dirty. Some 
equipment did not work as it should. P made attempts to put things right, but Mrs L remained 
unhappy. P offered a 15% discount, but Mrs L declined that offer. 
Mrs L contacted Nationwide. It did not accept that it had any liability to Mrs L, although it did 
offer to refund 10% as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs L did not accept that offer either and 
referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ls complaint but was not persuaded that 
Nationwide had any liability to her. She did not accept that assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in this case is that, if Mrs L has 
a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against P, she has a like claim against 
Nationwide, because she used her credit card to pay for part of the holiday. 
Ps terms and conditions did not specify in detail what was to be provided with the caravan. 
They did not, for example, list what kitchen equipment was available or promise wi-fi. 
Nevertheless, under The Consumer Rights Act 2015 Mrs Ls contract with P was to be read 
as including a term that the goods provided (that is, the caravan and its accessories) would 
be of satisfactory quality and the services associated with the holiday (including in my view 
cleaning of the caravan) would be provided with reasonable care and skill. 
It is clear that Mrs L thinks that the caravan and the services connected to its supply as 
holiday accommodation were not of a satisfactory standard. Both Nationwide and the 
investigator recognised that, but  apart from Mrs Ls report of what she experienced  there 
was no evidence to show the condition of the accommodation. For that reason, our 
investigator did not feel that Nationwide had treated Mrs L unfairly in the way it dealt with her 
claim. 
I have no reason to doubt what Mrs L has said about her and her familys experience. I 
accept that they were disappointed with the overall standard of accommodation provided by 
P. However, there was little concrete evidence to show that P was in breach of its obligation 
to provide accommodation of a satisfactory standard. And Mrs L acknowledged that P did 
take some steps to resolve matters at the time. In the circumstances, I dont believe that 
Nationwides response to Mrs Ls complaint was unreasonable. Even if I were satisfied that 
there was a breach of contract, I do not believe that I could fairly ask Nationwide to provide a 
full refund; a reduction in price would be a much more likely outcome.       
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Nationwide Building Society to 
take any further steps to resolve Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman