DRN-2547761
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging
her a fee for payment protection insurance claims (PPI), that she said she didnt authorise
them to make. She said shed made the PPI claims herself with her lenders.
What happened
Ms W said she made PPI claims with her lenders shortly before the August 2019 deadline
for making PPI claims. She said her lenders let her know they would be investigating her
claims.
And in January 2020, one of her lenders Ill call B told her the claim was successful and the
amount of compensation shed be paid. Ms W said a few days later she had an invoice from
FTR asking her to pay their fee as her claim with B had been successful. Ms W complained
to FTR as she said shed never asked them to submit a claim for her as she hadnt returned
the documentation, they had sent to her.
FTR said Ms W had asked them to carry out a free PPI check, and shed signed a letter of
authority (LoA) in June 2019 authorising them to act on her behalf. FTR said theyd
submitted her claim to lender B and as their agreement with Ms W hadnt been cancelled,
their success fee was justified.
Ms W wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us. Ms W also found
out her other PPI claim with her lender Ill call H had also been successful. And FTR had
told her they would also be seeking their success fee for this claim as well.
Our investigator said FTRs terms were contradictory, as they said theyd submit a PPI claim
after the end of the free PPI check. But went on to say the PPI claim would only be
submitted after instruction from Ms W. And as Ms W hadnt instructed FTR to submit her
claims, she said FTR should waive their fee.
FTR didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2020. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Ms Ws frustration as I can see she dealt directly with her lenders in
providing the information they asked for. But in making my decision I need to determine
whether Ms W had authorised FTR to act on her behalf. And if she had, whether she let
them know she no longer wanted them to work for her.
FTR has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made on 8 June 2019. The
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Ms W has given this
service. So, on balance I think Ms W completed the on-line form. FTR has said to carry out
their free PPI check, lender details were needed. And these werent supplied on the initial
application. Neither was the form signed. FTR asked Ms W to fully complete the form and
sent links to it for Ms W to do this. On 19 June 2019 a fully completed application was made
that included Ms Ws lenders, lender B and lender H  again personal information that I
think on balance shows Ms W completed the application. And the LoA that was generated by
the application was signed. FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in
signing the LoA Ms W had agreed to them.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
Free PPI Check Period:
a. FTR will use reasonable endeavours to request the Company confirm whether PPI existed
on any accounts which You held with them by making a Pre-submission or DSAR
b. If no PPI is identified this Agreement will come to an end but this Agreement will continue
on any accounts where a Company has confirmed You had PPI.
They go on to say:
Preparing and Submitting Your Claims;
a. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends, and you authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services
b. If further information is required from You prior to submitting a Claim(s), FTR will
endeavour to contact You and You agree to provide reasonable assistance and information
to allow Us to submit a Claim{s) on Your behalf
Ms W did have a PPI policy with lender B and FTR asked Ms W to complete further
documentation. And reminders were sent to her. But Ms W didnt respond to any of FTRs
requests. Instead Ms W submitted PPI claims directly with her lenders, I dont know the
exact date, but Ms W has said it was just before the deadline date. I can understand why
Ms W says she made the claims herself. And that she didnt think shed authorised FTR to
act on her behalf as she hadnt responded to their requests for further information. But FTRs
terms and conditions specifically explained that the agreement would continue if PPI was
found. And I think it was for Ms W to have told FTR if she no longer wanted this to happen.
The terms and conditions also say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter
of Authority (Cooling-off Period) at no cost to you unless you or FTR have received a
reasonable offer of compensation within the Cooling Off Period.
I havent seen any evidence that Ms W asked FTR to cancel her agreement. The claim may
not have been formalised according to Ms W, but its not enough that she simply disengaged
from the process. And by not telling FTR she didnt want them to act on her behalf they
submitted her PPI claims to her lenders before the deadline date.
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they
actually undertook. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be
done for free. Where a claim was successful, FTRs fee may be more or less than the value
of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
Ms W has said when she submitted her own claims for PPI she completed the lenders
questionnaires, and her claims were successful. But FTRs fee as outlined above isnt basedon the work they did but on whether the claims they submit are successful or not. FTR
submitted Ms Ws claims as their agreement hadnt been cancelled. And both the claims
were successful.
FTRs fees were charged in line with what Ms W agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in
place for PPI claims. Ms W could have cancelled her claims with FTR. But I cant see she
cancelled any of the claims before they were successful. And I dont think it was enough by
Ms W no longer engaging with FTR to consider this as her cancelling her agreement with
them.
So, Im satisfied that FTR was authorised to act on Ms Ws behalf and her claims were
successful. This means FTR can charge their fees for these claims.
I havent received any further comments from either party. So my decision is unchanged and 
I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman