DRN-4032372
The complaint
Mr H complains because Euroins AD (Euroins) hasnt paid a claim for lost belongings under 
his travel insurance policy.
Mr H also complains about Euroins delays in dealing with his claim and responding to his 
complaint. 
What happened
Mr H was insured under a travel insurance policy, provided by Euroins. Unfortunately, while 
on holiday abroad, Mr H lost his bag containing items including cash, his passport, 
sunglasses, a watch and car keys. Mr H had to extend his trip while he waited to collect an 
emergency passport and he made a claim with Euroins for his additional costs, as well as for 
the lost items. 
Euroins declined the claim because it said Mr Hs bag had been left unattended and he 
hadnt taken reasonable care for the safety of his belongings. Unhappy, Mr H complained to 
Euroins before bringing the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said she didnt think Euroins 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me 
as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator say insurers must handle claims fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. The rules also say insurers must handle claims promptly and 
provide appropriate information to a policyholder on the progress of a claim. Ive taken these 
rules into account when making my final decision about Mr Hs complaint. 
In common with most travel insurance policies available on the market, the terms and 
conditions of Mr Hs policy dont cover the loss or theft of personal possessions which are 
left unattended and/or where the policyholder hasnt exercised care for the safety and 
supervision of their belongings. Mr Hs policy defines unattended as When you cannot see 
and are not close enough to prevent unauthorised interference or theft of your property.
The circumstances surrounding this claim are that Mr H left his bag under a table in a bar 
and forgot to pick it up. Mr H says his friends knew the bag was there so, when he arrived 
back at his hotel and realised his bag was missing, he thought one of his friends had picked 
it up for him. 
Even if I were to accept that Mr H didnt leave his bag unattended as defined under the 
terms and conditions of his policy, I cant fairly conclude that he took reasonable care of his 
belongings. 
I understand Mr H didnt intentionally forget his bag, and he spent a few hours the following 
day trying to find his bag. But the relevant test when deciding if I think Mr H took reasonable 
care is whether I think Mr H recognised there was a risk of his belongings being lost or 
stolen and either took no measures at all to lower that risk or took measures which he knew 
were inadequate to avoid the risk.
I think most people would recognise theres a risk in leaving a relatively small bag containing 
the items which Mr H lost on the floor of a bar. And I think Mr H did recognise that risk as he 
told his friends where he had placed his bag. I understand Mr H says the bag was zipped 
closed and was otherwise on his person at all times. But, based on all the circumstances of 
this complaint, I dont think Mr H took adequate steps to mitigate the risk hed recognised by 
leaving the bag where he did. 
So, I dont think Mr Hs claim is covered under the terms and conditions of his policy and I 
dont think Euroins acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining his claim. 
In any event, the loss or theft of money in these circumstances wouldnt be covered under 
the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy anyway  and neither would the cost of the 
replacement emergency passport.  
Ive considered the time taken by Euroins to make and communicate its claims decision to 
Mr H. I think it would have been helpful if Euroins had done this more quickly, but I dont 
think the delays in this case were so excessive or undue as to warrant an award of 
compensation. And Euroins provided a final response letter to Mr H within the eight week 
timeframe set out by the regulator. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H and I understand he has lost a significant amount of money, but 
I wont be directing Euroins to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman