DRN-3440431
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his motor insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited. Mr M has many 
concerns about how Aviva handled a claim, as well as how it settled it. His concerns about 
the amount of the settlement have been dealt with in another decision issued by a colleague. 
This complaint reference and decision deal solely with how Aviva, and its agents for which it 
is responsible, handled the claim and settlement.
What happened
A named driver on Mr Ms policy, driving the car, was involved in an accident on a 
roundabout on 2 November 2020. Mr M believed the other driver was at fault and Aviva 
initially accepted this, telling Mr M it was dealing with the claim on a non-fault basis. 
Aviva thought the car was repairable, although, as a result of the crash, it was immobile. 
Mr M was waiting for repairs to be arranged but needed transport for work. So, he said, he 
bought an alternative car. It was late November before Avivas garage took the car for repair, 
and the garage provided a courtesy car to Mr M on 25 November 2020. 
On 30 November Avivas garage told Mr M the car wasnt economically repairable. Later that 
same day when Mr M made enquiries with Aviva it assured him the car was with the garage 
for repair. Avivas claim handling company (V) then contacted Mr M to offer him settlement 
for the car based on its market value as it was viewing it as a total loss (not economically 
repairable). V said the market value was £5,600 and, whilst there was no excess, anything 
owed to the finance company for the car would be paid from that sum first to settle the 
finance agreement. Mr M challenged Avivas figure. On 21 December Aviva told Mr M that, 
following its review, it thought the market value for the car was £6,733. A cheque for this 
sum, less a reduction applied as Mr M chose to keep the car, was sent to Mr M in 
February 2021 (the finance having been previously settled), with his car being returned to 
him shortly thereafter. My colleague later found that the final market value Aviva had 
ascribed to the car was fair and reasonable. 
Meanwhile, Aviva wrote to Mr M, stating it accepted that, during November, before deciding 
the car was a total loss, it had delayed the claim. So, and despite the fact Mr M wasnt, in its 
view, entitled to a courtesy car under the policy, it said it would pay Mr M £230  £10 a day 
for the 23 days he had been without use of his car before a courtesy car was provided, due 
to its delays. Also a further £120 compensation for the upset hed been caused. But it 
wouldnt pay any costs hed said hed incurred for buying a replacement car. And regarding 
other concerns Mr M had raised with it, such as in respect of it having provided him with 
misleading information, Aviva didnt accept it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ms concerns and noted the total of £350 compensation (the 
£230 for the loss of use of his car in November and £120 for upset) which Aviva had paid, as 
well as an apology it had given. He wasnt minded to make it do anything more. 
Mr M said he was particularly unhappy as he understands that the policy, as well as 
promising to provide courtesy car for the period of repairs, says one will also be provided 
when a car is immobile or unroadworthy. He said his car was immobile following the incident, 
but he didnt get a courtesy car and he had needed a car for work, so hed had no choice but 
to buy one. He said Aviva didnt pay him the settlement value until May 2021.
Mr Ms complaint was passed for an ombudsmans consideration. I asked both parties for 
further details. Neither provided any. So I assessed the complaint based on the evidence 
available to me and, having done so, issued a provisional decision, the findings of which 
were: 
replacement car
I dont intend to make Aviva pay Mr M for replacing his car. Hes asked that Aviva, in order to 
compensate him for purchasing a replacement car, makes a payment to him based on the 
cost of hiring a car, as well as for things like servicing the new car. But as Mr M didnt hire a 
car, I cant reasonably require Aviva to pay for that. And despite being asked for evidence of 
the purchase, or even insurance documents, Mr M hasnt shown me he bought a car 
because of Aviva failing to provide him with a courtesy car. I see he told Aviva he would 
have to buy a car, but he didnt show it proof of the purchase either. Whilst I think Aviva did 
communicate poorly with Mr M and did cause delays, which Ill come on to, I dont think that 
buying a car is a proportionate response to that. Certainly not within only a few days of a 
claim having been made, where claims are a natural risk of driving a car and do take some 
time to resolve, sometimes not entirely without a reasonable level of inconvenience having to 
be endured. Aviva accepted it had caused delays from the point of the claim and during the 
period in which Mr M says he bought a replacement car. It accepts Mr M should have been 
in a courtesy car earlier and has offered Mr M £230 (£10 a day) to make up for that. I think 
thats reasonable in the circumstances, and Im not minded to make it pay more, or to make 
payment to Mr M in line with hire costs or the cost of a replacement car. 
poor communication and delays
Aviva has accepted it should have progressed the claim sooner than it did. But I also note 
that the policy says a courtesy car will be given where a car is immobile  it doesnt have to 
be with the garage for repair. In any event, because it has accepted it delayed matters, as 
noted above, Aviva has offered what I think is reasonable compensation, for loss of use of 
his car in November 2020. But Aviva also offered Mr M £120 for the upset he was caused. 
Whilst Im satisfied by the loss of use payment, I dont think the £120 for upset is fair and 
reasonable. I think Aviva has caused Mr M more upset than it has, so far, accepted. 
Mr M told Aviva on 14 November 2020 that his queries about who decides liability hadnt 
been answered. And also that the online claims portal wasnt working. I dont see that these 
concerns were ever responded to by Aviva. There was then an issue where the garage told 
Mr M that his car was not repairable. And when Mr M sought further advice on this from 
Aviva, it assured him it was. Clearly Aviva was not kept in the loop about what was 
happening with the car and Mr Ms claim. I think that was likely because Aviva had 
outsourced the handling of the claim to V  but that shouldnt have caused Mr M to have a 
less than satisfactory service. However, I note that V caused further communication issues and delays when it was 
decided the car couldnt be repaired. Avivas file shows V didnt call Mr M as soon as it 
should have done and that its first valuation applied to the car was lower even than the sum 
ascribed by the trade guides commonly used for valuing cars. To be clear, my colleague has 
considered the value later offered in settlement by Aviva  and I cant comment further on 
that. But my colleague, as part of that complaint, did not look at how the valuation was 
handled. And I do think Mr M was caused further upset in this respect because V did not 
ensure a fair and reasonable offer  in line with the trade guides  was originally made. And 
when both that and the final settlement value were put to Mr M, Aviva did not make 
settlement to him promptly  not until February 2021. Avivas file shows it sent a cheque for 
the settlement on 23 February 2021. It was only around that time that Mr Ms car, that he 
was keeping as part of the settlement arrangement, was returned to him. So, with the car 
being declared unrepairable on 30 November and the original, unfair and unreasonable offer 
being made around this time, there was about three months of delay caused by Aviva. 
I know that Mr M didnt actually get settlement from Aviva until May 2021. I see that in 
March 2021, as part of further work on the liability aspect of the claim, Aviva noted the 
settlement cheque it had sent in February 2021 hadnt cleared. I see it tried to contact Mr M 
at this time to see if he wanted a bank payment. I think it handled this reasonably, and I dont 
see that Mr M replied to it. I note that my colleagues decision on the valuation aspect was 
issued in May 2021, and it seems it was likely this that precipitated the parties finally 
organising payment. But I dont think delay in this period  March to May 2021, was really 
down to any failure of Aviva. I wouldnt expect an insurer to routinely follow up on a cheque 
payment to make sure it was cashed. And the cheque wasnt out of date when Aviva 
realised in March it hadnt been cashed. I think Aviva acted reasonably in following this up 
with Mr M. But of course, its other delays meant he should have had settlement for the claim 
long before the cheque was initially sent in February. Had he had it before February, then 
I think the further delays which occurred during March to May, would likely have been 
avoided too. 
Taking everything that happened into account I think that Aviva should pay Mr M a total of 
£500 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by its poor communication and 
delays. That is separate and in addition to the £230 loss of use payment Aviva offered. But 
the payment of £120, which was offered for upset caused to Mr M in November 2021, can be 
taken into account as part of that £500 total sum. That said, Im not sure if these sums 
offered were actually paid to Mr M. If they were then Aviva will only now have to pay Mr M a 
further £380. If they werent then Aviva will have to pay Mr M £500 plus £230. 
But Im also going to require Aviva to pay interest on the amount of the final settlement 
value. Bearing in mind the delays in November, as well as those Ive identified in 
December 2020  January 2021, I think this should have all been settled and paid to Mr M 
by the end of November 2021. So he should have had money in his pocket at that time, 
money which he didnt actually receive until May 2021. As such, and in line with our usual 
approach to delayed payments, interest should be added to the final settlement figure for the 
total loss of Mr M's car from 1 December 2020 until Mr M received the settlement payment. 
no further loss of use payment
Mr M may wonder why, given Aviva offered a compensating payment for loss of use in 
November, and I have found delays caused by it December 2020  February 2021, I am not 
also making it pay for loss of use at £10 a day for that period. Ive thought about making that 
award. But, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to do so. Nor would it be in line with our usual approach. This service often 
makes loss of use awards at £10 a day where an insurers delays meant the policyholder 
had no access to a car at all. I dont believe that is the case for Mr M in this period. He clearly did not have use of his car subject of the policy, and, as described above I think Aviva 
should have sorted matters out sooner. But, according to what he says, he did have use of a 
car. That was clearly not as convenient for him as his damaged car  but, that being the 
case, Ive compensated Mr M for his distress and inconvenience suffered with my above 
stated award of £500. Thats fair and reasonable in my view.
complaint handling
Mr M has said he is unhappy with Avivas complaint handling too. That is not something 
I can consider or take into account. Thats because complaint handling is not a regulated 
activity and I can only look at complaints about regulated activities.
Mr M did not reply. Aviva provided some notes from its claims management system and an 
email from V addressed to Mr M but sent to Aviva on 6 April 2022, which responded to the 
concerns Mr M had raised about Vs poor communication and delays. V denied there were 
any. In responding to my findings Aviva said it thought I had strayed into the previous 
complaint considered by this service. Aviva said it felt that any aspect in regarding valuations 
was dealt with under the previous complaint, so asked that I amend my findings made in 
respect of compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The system notes and email recently provided by Aviva dont add anything to the detail 
already provided. The system notes dont for example, suggest there were no delays or poor 
communication as I identified in my provisional findings. And whilst the email denies the 
same, that is just Vs view of the situation  and I was aware of that when I issued my 
provisional findings. I, of course, take note of that view but, it cant reasonably be taken as 
outweighing the other evidence Ive seen which caused me to think there had been poor 
communication and delays, which had caused upset and inconvenience to Mr M.  
Ive read the decision issued by my colleague on the previous complaint. That detailed that 
the complaint in consideration then was the value of the settlement issued by Aviva. My 
colleagues findings set out their consideration of that issue. And specifically stated that 
Avivas claim handling was not being considered as part of that complaint. As such, the 
service provided by Aviva in respect of that settlement offer being made was not considered. 
I have considered the service Aviva provided when handling Mr Ms claim, including the way 
in which it handled the settlement offer but not its value. My consideration and decision are 
separate and distinct to those of my colleague. 
I found that Aviva had failed Mr M in the way it handled the claim, and that Mr M had 
suffered distress and inconvenience as a result. I decided what compensation I felt was due 
to fairly and reasonably make up for that. Having considered Avivas response made in reply 
to my provisional findings, my view hasnt changed. And Mr M didnt reply to my decision. So 
Ive no need change what I said provisionally. As such, my provisional findings, along with 
my response to Avivas reply to them, now form the findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
Aviva hasnt sought to satisfy me that any payments have already been made by it and 
received by Mr M. So I now require Aviva to pay Mr M:£230 as compensation for loss of use of his vehicle in November 2020.
£500 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by its poor communication 
and delays.
An amount equivalent to interest* on the settlement value for his car, applied from 
1 December 2020 until payment of the settlement value was received by Mr M (believed 
to be late May/early June 2021). 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr M, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman