DRN-3740922
The complaint
Mrs J complains that ReAssure Limited delayed opening a Retirement Pension Account for 
her and then backdated the value of her pension fund to the date of her initial instruction. 
She says this approach was financially disadvantageous to her.
What happened
Mrs J had a pension account with ReAssure. In March 2021 she asked it to open a 
Retirement Pension Account (Drawdown Account). ReAssure completed this transaction on 
6 May 2021. By that date Mrs J says the fund value had increased by over £13,000 but 
ReAssure used the valuation that had applied at the date of her initial instruction when 
calculating her tax free cash sum and the residual amount that was transferred to her 
Drawdown Account.
Mrs J says that ReAssure has profited from the increase in her pension fund value between 
the date of her instruction and the date it had completed the transaction. She complained to 
ReAssure and asked it to reimburse her for the amount she said it had profited by.
ReAssure investigated her complaint. It said that shed initially complained in June 2021. At 
that date it had accepted thered been a delay complying with her instruction. It agreed to 
pay her a total of 8% simple interest on the tax free cash sum shed received from the date it 
had received her instruction up to the date it had been paid. ReAssure said its process was 
to calculate the fund value on the date it received the instruction. It said it wouldve honoured 
that value even if her fund had fallen in value after that date. 
ReAssure also accepted that it had caused Mrs J some distress and it agreed to pay her £50 
by way of apology.
Mrs J did not accept what ReAssure said. She referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into her complaint. She thought that ReAssure had taken action to put 
Mrs J back into the position she wouldve been in had the delays not happened. So, she 
didnt think it should have to do anything more.
Mrs J disagreed. She said that if ReAssure had used the actual transaction date that the 
fund was realised she would have received a higher tax free cash sum and the amount 
transferred to her Drawdown Account would also have been greater. She reiterated that she 
thought ReAssure had manipulated dates to its advantage and had made a dishonest gain. 
Because Mrs J disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint concerns the date that ReAssure carried out the fund valuation for 
the purposes of complying with Mrs Js instruction. It received her instruction on 19 March 
2021 and that was the date it carried out the valuation. The fund value varied over the next 
period of time, but ultimately on the date when the fund was realised (15 April 2021) it had 
increased in value. And it also increased in value between that date and the date the funds 
were distributed to Mrs J (6 May 2021).
Mrs J thinks the higher fund value (either that which applied on 15 April or 6 May 2021) 
should have been used. ReAssure disagrees. It says that its process is to use the fund value 
on the date it received the instruction (19 March 2021).
Ive thought about what both parties have said here and having done so Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why:
When ReAssure received Mrs Js instruction it calculated the fund value on that date. It says 
this meant that irrespective of what happened to the value of her pension fund after that 
date, it would pay that amount to Mrs J. So, the value that Mrs J would receive was locked 
in. Even if ReAssure had immediately complied with Mrs Js instruction  that was the value 
she wouldve received on that date. And it was the amount she wouldve expected to 
receive. So, I dont think that ReAssures process here is unusual or that, on balance, it 
creates unfair outcomes; quite the reverse because by always using the date of the 
instruction for valuation purposes, ReAssure cant manipulate market movements to its 
advantage.  
Mrs J says that ReAssure unduly delayed making the payment to her and as a result it has 
made a dishonest gain. I can understand why Mrs J, with the benefit of hindsight, now 
thinks that she should be paid the value of the fund when it was realised or distributed to her. 
But, if the value of her fund had fallen during that period, it is the case that ReAssure 
wouldve been expected to honour the valuation that applied on the date it received her initial 
instruction. And, it wouldnt have been fair or reasonable to have expected Mrs J to bear any 
loss for a decrease in her fund value which happened after that date. So, although the fund 
value rose here during that period, Im satisfied that the same principle should apply.
ReAssure has accepted that there were delays in carrying out Mrs Js instructions. It took 
around 17 working days for ReAssure to realise her fund and a further 14 working days 
before she received the tax free cash. ReAssure says this was outside of its usual service 
standards. Because of that it apologised and paid Mrs J 8% simple interest on the amount of 
the late payment - calculated for the period from the date it received her instructions to the 
date it made the payment. ReAssure has also confirmed it automatically backdated the 
opening of her Retirement Pension Account to 19 March  which means she didnt lose out 
on the rest of her investment.
When a business delays making a payment we would expect it to take action to put the 
consumer back into the position she wouldve been in had the delay not happened. In 
circumstances, such as this where theres been a delay making a payment, we would 
usually require the business to make a payment of 8% simple interest (on the amount of the 
payment) by way of compensation together with reimbursement of any costs incurred which 
were caused by the delay. Thats what ReAssure has done here. And it also backdated the 
opening of the Retirement Account to 19 March. Mrs J told us she hasnt suffered any other 
loss or incurred any costs because of the delay.
ReAssure also considered the distress and inconvenience it had caused Mrs J as a result of 
what happened. It paid her £50 by way of compensation. Having considered everything 
here, I think thats fair and reasonable. I dont require it to have to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman