DRN-3899137
The complaint
Mr T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC  (Tesco), trading as Tesco Bank,  
irresponsibly granted him a credit card he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In June 2017 Mr T entered into an agreement with Tesco to have access to credit by way of 
a credit card account. He was given an opening credit limit of £9,400. He says he used 
around £4,000 of this to make an immediate balance transfer to consolidate other debts.
Tesco issued a default notice against the account in September 2018. The account was 
subsequently terminated, in November 2018 with the outstanding debt later being passed on 
to a third party. 
Mr T says that Tesco didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it granted him the 
account. He says he was already struggling financially at the time.
Tesco didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to 
check Mr Ts financial circumstances before granting him the credit card account and each 
of the credit limit increases. 
In my provisional decision dated 16 December 2022 I explained why I didnt think Tesco 
acted unfairly in granting Mr T his credit. I set out an extract below:
Before granting the account, Tesco looked into Mr Ts financial situation. This included 
looking at the information about his personal circumstances and the information provided 
within his application. Mr T was a homeowner with a mortgage and was employed full time. 
Tescos checks also showed Mr Ts existing loan balances and sums owed on other credit 
accounts. The checks found that Mr T was generally managing his other credit accounts 
well, with no arrears, defaults or history of missed payments on his existing borrowing. 
Tesco assessed Mr Ts monthly outgoings based on this information and established that he 
had enough disposable income to be able to make repayments on the card. 
Its possible that Tesco failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr T with credit. 
But even if that were the case, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Tesco to 
think the credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Mr T told Tesco that he earned a relatively good income which Tesco 
verified to be correct. Mr Ts bank statements, and the details Mr T has given us about his 
regular outgoings, show that he was managing two overdrafts. But from what Ive seen, 
his income was enough to enable him to cover his committed expenditure and daily 
needs. I can also see that whatever other monthly commitments Mr T may have had in 
relation to other credit, the total income each month was roughly at least the same as his 
monthly expenditure. In other words, whilst he was making regular use of his overdraft, 
his overall financial situation appears to have been stable at around the time he applied 
for the card. That leads me to think that there wasnt anything significant that would have 
put Tesco off providing Mr T with the opening credit limit. And whilst the initial credit limit 
of £9,400 was not modest, it was never increased. 
Ive also kept in mind that soon after the account was opened, Mr T made a large balance 
transfer. I think this suggests that Mr T was taking practical steps towards managing his 
existing debt and bank overdrafts by taking out this card. The balance transfer was likely 
to have saved Mr T some money on the interest he would have been paying elsewhere. I 
therefore dont think it was necessarily unreasonable for Tesco to have facilitated that. 
It follows that, as things stand, I havent seen enough evidence or information for me to 
think that more thorough affordability checks would have led Tesco to think that the credit 
it provided Mr T was unreasonable. I also dont currently consider that what Tesco could 
see of how Mr T was managing his financial situation, ought to have prompted it to have 
acted differently than it did. 
It follows that I currently dont think Tesco acted unfairly in granting Mr T this account. 
Tesco said it had nothing further to add by way of response to my provisional decision. 
Mr T disagrees with my provisional decision. In summary he says:
1. Tesco was wrong to lend him the more than the £4,000 of credit hed applied for. 
2. His earning and financial situation wouldnt put him in a good enough position to clear 
his overdraft.
3. Whilst he was able to meet his financial commitments at the time, he wasnt 
financially stable, and Tesco ought to have realised this before giving him the higher 
limit than hed asked for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr T has told but I still dont consider that Tesco was 
wrong to provide him with the credit. 
Tesco granted Mr T a higher credit limit than the sum hed asked for to help him consolidate 
some debt. Tesco says that Mr Ts level of earnings at the time and good credit score was 
enough for it to grant him the higher limit. Tesco says that even if it had taken Mr Ts 
overdraft borrowing into consideration, its likely this wouldnt have change their decision. I 
therefore remain of the view that the opening credit limit Mr T was given was reasonable, 
based on the results of the checks Tesco had carried out at the time. 
Ive kept in mind that Mr Ts financial difficulties didnt occur until over a year later when he 
changed jobs and moved house. This put a strain on his personal finances, leading to Tesco 
issuing him with a default notice in September 2018. I consider these are issues that likely 
wouldnt have been apparent at the time Tesco granted Mr T his credit. I also note that 
Tesco hadnt granted Mr T any credit limit increases after the account opening. 
I therefore dont consider Tesco acted unfairly in granting Mr T the credit limit of £9,000 so 
as to adversely affect his financial situation.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr T was hoping for and Im sorry to have to disappoint 
him. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman