DRN-2955701
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited didnt properly repair his van after
it was repaired following a theft claim on his van insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms van was stolen and recovered so he claimed on his policy. Admiral reviewed the
claim and accepted it. It said the van was repairable and arranged for it to be repaired by
one of its approved repairers. There were some issues with the repair of Mr Ms van and it
was then returned to him once the repairs had been completed.
Within a few hours of Mr Ms van being returned to him he contacted Admiral to raise further
concerns with the repair. In particular he said an inside panel had been removed and
needed replacing, there was a strange noise coming from the engine and the keys no longer
worked properly in the lock or ignition barrel. Because of this his van was returned to Admiral
to look into and he complained about the poor repairs.
Admiral looked into his concerns and said it would replace the inside panel if Mr M provided
an invoice for it. Admiral also said the noise was coming from the gearbox and given the age
and mileage of Mr Ms van this was expected. In regard to the key not working in the lock
and the ignition barrel, Admiral said its repairer has checked these when it initially came in
for repair and found no issues with them. It also said there was now signs of the ignition
barrel being locked and the key wouldnt enter the lock. Because of this Admiral thought it
was most likely the damage occurred after Mr Ms van had been returned to him, mostly
likely another attempted theft. Mr M didnt agree and referred his complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2021 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say if his van is lost or damaged because of theft
or attempted theft then Admiral will pay to repair his van, limited to the market value. Admiral
accepted Mr Ms claim and said it repaired his van from the initial theft so believes its done
what its supposed to under the policy. As Mr M disputes this Ive looked at whether Admiral
has done a lasting and effective repair as its supposed too.
When Mr Ms van initially went in for repair, Admiral said it checked the van for damage from
the theft and took images of the van. It also said it checked the keys in the locks and ignition
and they all worked, and the van started fine. During the checks it said it discovered an issue
with the air mass sensor and EGR valve so replaced those. Admiral also said it noticed a
noise coming from the gearbox but felt this was due to Mr Ms van being a 2008 van with
almost 150,000 miles on it. After Admiral had repaired Mr Ms van it said it road tested it and
then drove it back to Mr M.
I can see from Admirals contact notes that within a few hours of Mr Ms van being returned
to him he called Admiral. During the call he explained that hed test driven the van and
noticed a noise coming from it when driving. He also said the van wouldnt lock or recognise
the key for the central locking. Because of this Admiral said it would arrange for Mr Ms van
to be collected and moved to a safe location.
Admiral then had a manufacturing dealer inspect Mr Ms van to determine whether the
issues were related to the claim. The manufacturing dealer noted that the key wouldnt enter
the lock and there was damage to the steering column and lock. Because of this Im not
persuaded this issue was part of the original claim. I say this because the original inspection
has photos of the keys in the ignition, Admiral also said it drove Mr Ms car when it returned
it to him, and Mr M also said he drove it after it had been returned. Without further evidence
to indicate how this could have happened after the key had previously worked, Im therefore
satisfied that its most likely this damage isnt related to the original theft. Admiral has offered
to repair this damage as a new claim but said Mr M would need to pay another excess. Im
satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive also considered the noise coming from Mr Ms van when he drove it, Admiral said its
engineer thought this was due to the age and mileage of Mr Ms van. Ive not been provided
with anything else to say what the noise might be or, to indicate that its most likely accident
related. Im therefore not persuaded it is related to the original theft, so it follows Im not
going to instruct Admiral to do anymore.
I can also see Admiral offered to sort the issue with the missing inside panel, subject to Mr M
providing an invoice for the cost to repair it so it could re-pay him for it. Im satisfied its fair
and reasonable for Admiral to fix the issue with the inside panel, however as this should
have been done in the original repair, I think Admiral should repair it rather than asking Mr M
to do it. If Mr M would prefer Admiral to pay him the cost of fixing the inside panel then he
should provide the invoice for it, if not Admiral should arrange the repair of the inside panel
as its part of the original claim.
Mr M responded and didnt accept my provisional findings. He said hed been honest about 
the incident and didnt think a separate attempted theft had occurred. He said hed driven the 
van and taken the ignition key out, hed then tried to put it back in and wasnt able too. He 
also said he thinks its likely there was a mistake at the garage where they missed this issue. 
Admiral also responded and didnt accept it. It said it had always agreed to cover the cost of 
the inside panel as part of the complaints final response so didnt understand why Id partly 
upheld this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms response but for the reasons explained above and in my provisional 
decision Im not persuaded the damage to the ignition was part of the original claim. 
In response to Admirals comments about why Ive partly upheld this complaint. Admiral 
agreed to cover the cost to repair Mr Ms inside panel if he provided an invoice for it. 
Whereas in my decision Im directing Admiral to repair the inside panel if Mr M would prefer 
that. This is different to Mr M repairing his vans inside panel and sending Admiral an 
invoice. For that reason, Im satisfied this complaint is a partial uphold as Im directing 
Admiral to do something different to what it said in its final response. 
For these reasons Ive not been persuaded to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I partly uphold thiscomplaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited needs to repair the inside panel of Mr Ms 
van or pay him the cost to do so if he prefers and provides a reasonable invoice for the cost.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman