DRN-4492650
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mrs B holds with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
There are two broad elements to the complaint  Ill detail them below  which has been 
brought by Mrs Bs representative, Mr P, with her authority.
What happened
The two components to the complaint are, in summary:
Halifax is pursuing legal action for possession in reliance on arrears that Mrs B says 
were accrued unfairly and illegally during a two-year period when she was evicted from 
the property by Halifax; and
When Mrs B sent Halifax a letter of authority (LOA) appointing her son to represent her 
in her dealings with Halifax over the mortgage, Halifax mistakenly contacted the joint 
mortgage holder, Mrs Bs former husband.
By way of redress, Mrs B is seeking removal of the arrears, and reimbursement of £3,000 in 
Council Tax for the period of non-occupation, along with statutory interest. Additionally, 
Mrs B seeks £10,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience for each part of the 
complaint, so £20,000 in all.
When the case came to us, our investigator was of the opinion that we could only consider 
the point about how Halifax had contacted Mrs Bs former husband regarding the LOA. She 
explained that the part about the arrears and legal action was time-barred under our rules 
because Halifax had already addressed it in a final response on an earlier complaint, and 
Mrs B had waited too long to refer it to us.
 
The investigator also provided her view on the merits of the LOA element of the complaint. 
She explained that Mrs Bs former husband is still a joint borrower on the mortgage, so 
Halifax can reasonably contact him about the mortgage generally, but it was wrong to do so 
regarding Mrs Bs LOA. However, she took the view that Halifax had responded 
appropriately by apologising and paying Mrs B £75 in compensation.
Mr P asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. By way of a decision dated 
29 November 2023, I confirmed that my remit to consider the merits of this this complaint 
was confined to the second bullet point listed above; i.e. that when Mrs B sent Halifax a 
letter of authority (LOA) appointing her son to represent her in her dealings with Halifax over 
the mortgage, Halifax mistakenly contacted the joint mortgage holder, Mrs Bs former 
husband.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. We have to work 
within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs B is a consumer, so 
meets the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr P is 
bringing the complaint on behalf of Mrs B.
I must explain that, although Mr P represents Mrs B, it is Mrs B who is Halifaxs customer. 
Its Mr Ps role is to bring the complaint on her behalf, in the same way that other consumers 
might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. 
But this does not entitle Mr P to consider it his complaint or to air his own grievances about 
Barclays, because he is not its customer. This is Mrs Bs complaint, and Mr Ps role is limited 
to putting it forward on her behalf. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This isnt a complaint where I have to decide fault; thats admitted. Rather, its one where 
I need to decide what a fair settlement should be.
Barclays readily accepts it shouldnt have contacted Mrs Bs former husband about the LOA; 
its apologised for that and paid compensation of £75 for Mrs Bs time, trouble and upset 
arising from that mistake. On balance, and considering the wider circumstances, I think 
thats fair and reasonable.
I can understand Mrs B being upset at her former husband being drawn into events, and its 
important to remember its not in dispute that he should not have been contacted specifically 
about the LOA. But the broader context here is that Mrs Bs former husband is still a joint 
borrower on the mortgage, with equal rights and responsibilities to those of Mrs B. Whatever 
agreement was reached between Mrs B and her former husband at the time of their 
matrimonial separation, that has no bearing on the joint mortgage contract with Halifax. 
So, with or without the mistaken contact over the LOA, Mrs Bs former husband was always 
going to be drawn into the current possession proceedings. And for the reasons sets out in 
my jurisdiction decision last month, we have no power to consider the complaint about the 
fairness or otherwise of the current possession proceedings.
The £75 Halifax paid Mrs B is for wrongly contacting her former husband about the LOA, and 
within that narrow framework, its a reasonable settlement. Its not to compensate her for 
drawing him more generally into the legal action, as that was always going to happen. That 
being the case, there are no grounds for me to order Halifax to do anything further by way of 
redress.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman