DRN-2864425
Complaint
Mrs B has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Background
Mrs B bought the policy in 2001 over the phone, after taking out her store card five months 
earlier. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill now explain why.
AXA had to let Mrs B know the policy was optional and it had to get her consent before it 
added PPI to her account. Mrs B says she doesnt remember agreeing to taking out PPI. But 
AXA says the PPI was sold during a phone call once the store card account had been set 
up. 
Due to the length of time that has passed, AXA hasnt provided a call recording from the time 
of the sale. But Ive seen a copy of Mrs Bs store card application form which has a section 
about PPI on it. The application gave her the option to select PPI and Mrs B chose not to 
take it at the time. I think she was likely aware PPI was optional at this point.
AXA hasnt provided a call script for the period Mrs Bs policy was sold. But weve seen a 
number of AXA cases involving phone sales and using what I know generally of AXAs sales 
practices, I think its more likely than not the representative would have followed a script. 
From the scripts weve seen, the wording usually prompted the representative to ask if the 
customer wanted PPI added to their account. 
I would add that the PPI would have likely appeared on Mrs Bs store card statements. So 
had it been added to her card without her knowledge, I would have expected her to question 
the additional charges sooner than she did. 
Overall, I dont think Ive seen enough in this case to make me think the policy was added 
without Mrs Bs agreement. Instead, I think its more likely than not Mrs B agreed to take it 
out, knowing that she didnt have to.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B. So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for 
her. It was up to Mrs B to decide if she wanted to take out the policy.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. Having looked at the policy terms and conditions, Mrs B was eligible for the cover and 
she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  
such as pre-existing medical conditions. I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy 
wasnt affordable for Mrs B.
Mrs B has told us she wasnt entitled to any sick pay from her employer if she was too unwell 
to work. And she has said she didnt havent have any savings at the time that she could 
have used if needed. 
Having thought about what Mrs B has said, I think that she could have found the policy 
useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in the event Mrs B was too ill to work 
until the end date, Mrs B stopped being ill or the outstanding balance had been paid for any 
one claim. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mrs B was ever made redundant until 
the end date, Mrs B stopped being unemployed or the outstanding balance had been paid 
for any one claim. It also would have paid out in the event of death. 
So overall, I think Mrs B could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off taking out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman