DRN-3875151
The complaint
Mr A and Mr T complain about QIC Europe Ltds (QIC) decision to partially decline their 
claim under their home contents insurance. 
What happened
Mr A and Mr Ts home was broken into, and a number of their items were stolen. They 
reported this to QIC who declined their claim for three items, so Mr A and Mr T complained. 
QIC responded and explained the reason for this was that the value of the three items wasnt 
disclosed at the time the policy was taken out. They said the policy conditions and premium 
are calculated and agreed, based on the information provided to QIC when the policy is 
taken out. They said, had they been made aware that the value of the three items of 
jewellery being claimed for, were greater than the policy limit of £2,000 for any individual 
item, they wouldve applied an endorsement and/or an additional premium. QIC said, as the 
value of the items hadnt been disclosed, theyre unable to provide cover for this.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A and Mr T. He thought QIC hadnt reached a fair 
decision on the claim and recommended they settle the claim for each of the three items at 
the £2,000 limit together with 8% simple interest. Mr A and Mr T agreed but QIC disagreed 
so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My starting point is Mr A and Mr Ts home insurance policy. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says We strongly advise you to review your policy each year to make sure 
you have suitable cover in place. The value of some of your personal belongings and 
valuables is likely to vary over time. We recommend that you review the valuation of any 
specific items regularly (at least every two years) and get professional advice if necessary. 
Please let us know if the value of any of these items changes, otherwise you may find 
yourself overinsured or underinsured. The policy goes further and sets out the limits which 
apply  this says the most QIC will pay for any single unspecified valuable is £2,000. The 
policy also says if a customer has specified any valuables, they will be shown in the policy 
schedule.   
In this case, the dispute relates to QICs decision to decline the claim for three items  all of 
which are valued above the £2,000 policy limit. QIC say their decision is based on Mr A and 
Mr T not disclosing the value of the three items. So, the first point Ive considered is what 
question did QIC ask. I can see when Mr A and Mr T took out the policy a Questions and 
answers document was sent to them setting out a record of the information provided by 
them when taking out the policy. This document asks Mr A and Mr T to check all questions 
and answers and to let QIC know if any details are incorrect. It says, if the information isnt 
correct, QIC may reject a claim or only pay part of it. One of the questions asks Do you 
have any valuable or personal items worth over £2,000 each? This has been answered 
No. So, I think the question QIC asked was clear and also set out what they wanted to 
know.  
 
The next point Ive considered is whether Mr A and Mr Ts answer was reasonable. As part 
of the claim process, Mr A and Mr T sent QIC a list of all items stolen. This included the 
three items which they valued at £1,560.78, £1,550 and £1,762. QIC then asked their 
jewellery specialist to validate the claims and they valued the three items at £4,685, 
£3,471.36 and £2,700 respectively. QIC then declined the claim for all items over £2,000  
which was the three items Ive referred to here. QIC say, had they been made aware the 
value of these three items were greater than the policy limit, they wouldve applied an 
endorsement and/or an additional premium.   
Theres no dispute Mr A and Mr T didnt value the three items and they didnt disclose to QIC 
the value of the three items exceeded the policy limit of £2,000. Given their own valuation, it 
appears Mr A and Mr T thought the individual valuations for the three items didnt exceed 
£2,000 but the terms and conditions did make them aware that the price of items of jewellery 
can vary over time  and thats why they should get those items valued regularly. So, taking 
this into account, I dont think Mr A and Mr Ts answer was reasonable.   
The next point Ive considered is what impact the answer had on QIC in order to decide what 
action they can fairly take. I can see our investigator has asked QIC what the position 
wouldve been had Mr A and Mr T disclosed the value of the three items. QIC say the 
valuations endorsement wouldve applied so the claim would be declined on that basis. QIC 
have provided details of their underwriting criteria and, while the relevant endorsement does 
refer to items of jewellery worth more than £2,000, it doesnt say QIC will decline to offer 
cover for such items. In fact, it refers to information QIC will require from a customer in order 
to consider a claim. The endorsement does refer to QIC not paying a claim or reducing the 
amount of the claim, but this is as a consequence of not receiving the information they ask 
for rather than an absolute decline to cover any items over £2,000. So, from the information 
Ive seen, had Mr A and Mr T disclosed the value of the three items exceeding the policy 
limit, Im persuaded they would still have been offered the policy, but with the valuations 
endorsement being applied. 
I do acknowledge the endorsement refers to information QIC require in relation to items 
worth more than £2,000  which in this case is a valuation from within the last three years if 
a claim is made. And I acknowledge Mr A and Mr T havent provided this information. But, 
despite this, I dont think its fair for QIC to decline the claim for these items. I say this 
because the endorsement says QIC will, as a consequence of not receiving this, not pay the 
claim or the amount of the claim may be reduced. I can see our investigator has asked QIC 
for evidence showing which of these consequences wouldve applied to Mr A and Mr Ts 
circumstances had they disclosed the value and then not provided a valuation from the last 
three years. I accept, not paying the claim is one of the outcomes available to QIC, but its 
not the only outcome. 
I would need to see compelling evidence here to demonstrate that Mr A and Mr Ts 
circumstances could only lead to non-payment of the claim rather than a reduced settlement 
amount. In deciding the impact on QIC and what they wouldve done differently had they 
known about the true value of the three items, I believe its more likely than not they 
wouldve applied the valuation endorsement. But, QIC havent provided me with any 
information which persuades me that Mr A and Mr T not providing a valuation could only 
lead to non-payment of the claim and why a reduced settlement amount should be ruled out 
in these circumstances. I note QIC say, had Mr A and Mr T disclosed the items, they would still have declined the 
claim on the grounds that they didnt get the items valued since they purchased them  and 
wouldve needed to have got them valued at least five times since they purchased them. I do 
acknowledge this, but the policy wording QIC have referred to here says the impact of not 
getting regular valuations is that a policyholder could find theyre over-insured or 
underinsured  it doesnt say any claim will be declined. 
Taking into account all the information Ive seen, I dont think QIC have reached a fair 
decision to decline the claim for the three items. So, Ive thought carefully about what QIC 
should do to put things right. In their final response to the complaint and in their response to 
our service, QIC say, had they been made aware the value of the three items was greater 
than the policy limit, they wouldve applied an endorsement and/or an additional premium. I 
can see our investigator has asked if an additional premium wouldve been charged and, if 
so, what it wouldve been. This would be helpful to decide what proportion of the total 
premium Mr A and Mr T had paid and therefore the corresponding reduction QIC is able to 
apply when settling the claim. 
QIC havent provided any information showing whether an additional premium wouldve 
been charged  and if so, what the total premium wouldve been. So, in these 
circumstances, I dont think its fair to ask QIC to settle the claim on a proportionate basis. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill also keep in 
mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable to both parties.
The policy has a single item limit of £2,000 and I can see QIC arranged for a valuation which 
shows the three items in dispute are worth at least £2,000. So, in the circumstances of this 
case, I think its fair and reasonable for QIC to settle the claim for the three items at the 
single item limit of £2,000 for each item.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that its fair and reasonable for QIC to settle Mr A and Mr Ts claim for the 
three items at the single item limit of £2,000 each. So, QIC should pay Mr A and Mr T £6,000 
together with 8% simple interest from the date of the claim to the date of settlement. QIC 
should provide Mr A and Mr T with a certificate showing any taxation deducted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. QIC Europe Ltd must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman