DRN-1303024
 
The complaint
Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr B bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
I think Barclaycard made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because he did tick the box on his credit card application form to 
show that he wanted the cover. There was a box directly underneath that he couldve 
ticked if he didnt want it. So from what Ive seen, I think Mr B wouldve realised he 
had a choice.
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mr B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr B says he was 
entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work, although he hasn't been 
able to say how much that sick pay was. He's also said he had a small amount 
of savings. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Bs employer benefits and 
wouldve been useful to him if he couldnt work. And it wouldve meant he could use 
his employer sick pay and savings to cover other expenses. So I think Mr B wouldve 
had some use for the policy, despite his existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But its unlikely Mr B would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman