DRN-3123715
The complaint
Mr M complains that Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) recommended and arranged 
an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) investment that was unsuitable for him.
What happened
In July 2016 Mr M invested in an EIS with a third party investment company (Company R). 
Mr M was told about the EIS by an adviser (Mr W) working for Old Mutual Wealth (OMW). 
OMW became Quilter in September 2018 and for ease of reference I will refer to Quilter as 
the business responsible for this complaint throughout my decision.
 
Mr M initially applied to invest £47,000 in the EIS but a few days later increased his 
investment to £100,000. By 2018 Mr M had lost the money he invested. He complains that:
 
The EIS shouldnt have been promoted to retail clients like himself. 
He had no previous investment experience and wasnt a sophisticated investor. 
He was given advice to invest and relied heavily on what Mr W told him.
In response to Mr Ms complaint, Quilter said:
After Mr W had introduced Mr M to Company R, they would have been responsible for 
carrying out appropriate due diligence to determine whether the EIS was appropriate for 
Mr M and explaining that it was a high risk investment. 
Having conducted a full investigation they were unable to find any record that Mr M had 
received advice from Quilter relating to the EIS. Mr W acted as a private introducer only 
for the EIS and there was no introducer agreement between Quilter and Company R. 
Quilter has not received any renumeration in respect of Mr Ms EIS investment. 
Mr Ms complaint was out of their scope to investigate, and Mr M should direct his 
complaint to Company R. 
When Mr M brought his complaint to our service, Quilter said we did not have the jurisdiction 
to consider it because Mr M was not an eligible complainant, and they did not provide a 
service to him. Quilters objections were considered first by one of our investigators and then 
by an ombudsman, who decided that Mr Ms complaint is within our jurisdiction. He said:
It was not disputed that Mr W engaged with Mr M and Company R in email exchanges 
directly related to Mr Ms EIS investment and that he did so, at all relevant times, from 
his Quilter email address. The ombudsman found that Mr W did so in his capacity as a 
Quilter adviser especially as there was no persuading indication that he was acting in a 
private capacity.
He was not persuaded that Quilters argument about an absence of renumeration 
associated with Mr Ms investment was as significant as Quilter believed it to be. 
The emails showed the adviser made a considerable effort to arrange the investment 
and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, the ombudsman did not consider that this 
would have been done without a commercial incentive for Quilter/the adviser.  
In 2016 Quilter had delegated authority to arrange deals in investment and it did so for 
Mr M with regards to the EIS fund. That serves as a regulated activity. 
The allegations that the Quilter adviser also gave Mr M investment advice, and that the 
advice given was unsuitable, could be better investigated as part of our treatment of the 
complaints merits.
There had been debate over Mr Ws role as an introducer. In the ombudsmans view that 
point unduly distracted attention from the direct service provided by Mr W in arranging 
the EIS investment. He said it was Mr Ws capacity in arranging Mr Ms particular 
investment that counted, not his capacity in initially introducing Mr M to the fund provider. 
As Quilters client Mr M was its customer and that means he had a regulated relationship 
with Quilter  which, alongside his status as a consumer (in the context of the complaint), 
also means he is an eligible complainant. 
For these reasons, Mr M is an eligible complainant, and his complaint features a 
regulated activity, so our service has jurisdiction to address the merits of his complaint.
Our investigator then looked into the merits of Mr Ms complaint and thought it should be 
upheld. In summary, her findings were:
Mr M and the adviser exchanged many emails and she looked at whether they amounted 
to advice, taking into account the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG). 
Having done so, she thought Mr M was given advice to invest in the EIS.
 
Before making a recommendation, the adviser should have considered Mr Ms financial 
situation, investment experience, attitude to risk and investment objectives. Mr M said he 
recalled his financial information being recorded during a meeting in 2015 but didnt 
recall being given a copy. Quilter said it didnt have documents to show this type of 
information was taken from Mr M. 
Mr M wasnt an experienced investor, and an investment of this nature wasnt suitable for 
someone with his level of investment experience.
Mr M had said he intended to use the £100,000 to start a pension or pay off tax. 
She thought that was plausible given his circumstances at the time. And she didnt think 
an EIS was suitable for his objectives because the investment was illiquid. She also 
thought an EIS was too high risk for someone looking to invest in a pension.
There was no evidence the adviser assessed Mr Ms needs before recommending the 
EIS. If he had, Mr M would most likely not have been categorised as a high risk investor. 
His income wasnt consistent, he had limited assets and didnt have high capacity for 
loss. The EIS was too high risk given Mr Ms circumstances and limited investment 
experience. Taking everything into account, the advice Mr M received was unsuitable.    If Mr M had not been given unsuitable advice he would have invested differently. 
He wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital and Quilter 
should compensate him on that basis. 
Mr M agreed with our investigators findings. Quilter disagreed and said:
Our investigators findings had been made largely on the basis of Mr Ms testimony and 
had not considered their views.
Mr W did not provide a personal recommendation to Mr M, nor was Mr W authorised by 
Quilter to advise on investments of this kind. Mr M signed the statement for self-certified 
sophisticated investor on the application form and the form has no evidence of any 
involvement from Quilter.
Mr M considered himself to be a retail client with no investment experience and not a 
sophisticated investor. Mr M had provided information for the year of the investment 
showing an income of £72,000 approx. and a bank balance of £55,000 approx. Yet he 
was able to find another £100,000 to invest in the EIS.
Some of the terminology Mr M used in his emails suggested a far greater level of 
investment experience than he has described.
The emails they had seen suggested that, rather than the adviser making Mr M aware of 
the EIS, Mr M was looking for an EIS investment.
Mr M was informed by the adviser that any EIS is high risk. The high risk nature of the 
EIS was also made clear in the paperwork Mr M received from Company R and he would 
have signed his agreement to it.
Mr M says he lent heavily on the adviser, yet he chose himself to invest £47,000 and 
then later increase it to £100,000. There is no evidence of any advice to do this. It is 
nonsensical that someone with a very low attitude to risk and allegedly no investment 
experience would decide, without any formal advice or documentation, to invest allegedly 
their life savings of £100,000 in a high risk investment, simply on the basis the adviser 
said he really liked the EIS.
They believe Mr M understood the tax benefits of investing in an EIS and that was his 
reason for investing. There is no evidence in any of the emails to suggest he wanted to 
use the £100,000 to start a pension or pay his tax. An EIS is not appropriate for either of 
those objectives and had there been any mention of these to the adviser he would have 
informed Mr M of this.
They have seen no documentary evidence of Mr Ms investment. They dont have any 
documents as no advice was given to Mr M and they received no renumeration. 
The introducer agreement was a private agreement between the adviser and Mr M and 
had no authorisation from Quilter.  
As Quilter disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An ombudsman has already decided that our service has the jurisdiction to look at Mr Ms 
complaint and addressed Quilters arguments about Mr Ws role as an introducer and a lack 
of renumeration in relation to the investment. So, I wont be looking again at those points. 
The ombudsman found that Mr M was a customer of Quilter, and that Quilter arranged his 
investment in the EIS.
In considering the merits of this complaint, Id like to reassure both parties that I have looked 
carefully at all the information they have provided. Having done so, I hope they wont take it 
as a discourtesy that I havent addressed every point they have raised. Instead, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I consider to be the key factors in reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.  
Did Quilter provide advice to Mr M?
The first question I have looked at is whether Quilter made a personal recommendation to 
Mr M to invest in the EIS. If they did, they had a responsibility to make sure he was given 
suitable advice.
Where a business has given investment advice there is usually paperwork from the time 
showing that they have asked their customer about their objectives and circumstances 
before making a recommendation. In this case, there is relatively little paperwork available, 
and Quilter have said consistently that there is no record of them providing advice to Mr M in 
relation to the EIS. I have therefore based my findings on what both parties have said and 
the documents that are available from the time. 
Quilter have said that no advice was given to Mr M. They say that Mr W introduced Mr M to 
Company R, who would have been responsible for determining whether the EIS was 
appropriate for Mr M. 
Mr M has said that Mr W advised him to invest in the EIS and he relied heavily on that 
advice. Mr M says that he and his wife were first referred to Mr W by a friend of theirs. 
They went to Quilters office in 2015 and Mr W took down information about their financial 
situation. Mr W said he would recommend a pension for Mr Ms wife and let them know 
about any investment opportunities. Mr W later told him about the EIS and, following various 
email exchanges and phone calls, he decided to invest.
Neither party has been able to provide any notes of a meeting in 2015 or recordings of any 
phone calls that took place prior to Mr M investing. Mr M has provided a copy of an email 
dated 30 October 2015 from Mr W to Mr M and his wife in which Mr W refers to his role as 
their financial adviser and their regular reviews. So, I think Mr W would most likely have 
had some information about Mr Ms circumstances and investment objectives back in 2015, 
prior to him investing in the EIS the following year.
  
Mr M has also provided copies of various email exchanges involving Mr M, Mr W and 
Company R in 2016. Ive summarised below the points that I consider most relevant in 
determining whether Mr M was given advice:
 
30 June 2016 - Mr W asked Company R to provide him with their current EIS options 
because he had a client looking to invest in EIS. On the same day Mr W sent Mr M 
brochures for two EIS.
5 July 2016 - Mr W responded to an email he had received from Mr M about the EIS he 
later invested in. Mr W said: I also like the... [EIS] ... I think the potential returns could be significant all being well. As a matter of interest, what investment amount were you 
thinking of making before my previous email and over what time horizon? Mr W went on 
to tell Mr M about another investment opportunity. He also said that any EIS is high risk 
and that making a high risk investment depends on the amount Mr M was looking for, 
the timescale and his objectives.
7 July 2016 - Mr W told Mr M that he had spoken to someone at Company R and passed 
on some information about the EIS. Mr W said: He is sending me more information on 
this. I really like it though. Mr M asked Mr W about the projections for exiting the 
investment and Mr W replied with information about the exit strategy.
11 July 2016 - Mr W emailed Mr M and said he was meeting Company R and wanted to 
know if he had any additional questions for them. Mr M said he would like a copy of the 
investment contract. Mr W told him there wasnt a contract and he only need to complete 
an application form. Mr M questioned this and asked about the terms. Mr W confirmed 
where the terms of the investment could be found.
12 July 2016 - Mr M asked whether there were fees involved in buying and selling the 
equity. Mr W said there were no fees and provided a deadline for sending the completed 
application form. Mr M said hed think about it and would be looking to invest £50,000.
13 July 2016 - Mr M completed the application form to invest £47,000 in the EIS.
14 July 2016 - Mr W sent Mr M information about another investment opportunity. 
He said: I do not think its as compelling as the EIS he was investing in. He added: 
You may love it, so do let me know but on the face of it, Id go for [the EIS] ... They 
seem like an exciting company. Mr M agreed and speaking of the EIS asked a question 
about protection for investors. In reply, Mr W said he had met Company R and continue 
to like and have faith in them. 
16 July 2016 - Mr M emailed Mr W to see if he could increase his EIS investment to 
£100,000. Mr W checked this with Company R. 
18 July 2016  Company R confirmed it had amended the amount invested to £100,000. 
In deciding this point, Ive taken account of the guidance provided by the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), on what constitutes regulated advice. The FCAs 
Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) includes a section (8.28) about the differences between 
giving advice and providing information. It says:
In the FCAs view, advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the adviser. 
In effect, it is a recommendation as to a course of action. Information, on the other 
hand, involves statements of facts or figures. 
In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or value 
judgment on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice.
Having reviewed the email exchanges that Ive summarised above, I think Mr W went 
beyond just providing information to Mr M about the EIS. I think there were three emails 
where he gave his opinion or made a value judgment on the EIS, by saying for example:
I also like the... [EIS] ... I think the potential returns could be significant all being 
well.I really like it though.
Id go for [the EIS] ... They seem like an exciting company.
Although Mr W didnt offer a definitive recommendation to Mr M in these emails, I think he 
was offering a value judgment on the EIS rather than just providing information. And based 
on their exchanges, I think Mr W would have been expecting Mr M to act on his 
recommendation. 
Ive also thought about whether it would have been reasonable for Mr M to think that he was 
being given advice by Mr W. From the email I referred to previously, it appears that Mr W 
had been acting as financial adviser to Mr M since at least October 2015. Mr W had also 
referred to conducting regular reviews with Mr M and his wife. So, I think Mr W would 
already have had some information about Mr Ms circumstances and investment objectives. 
And in the email exchanges about the EIS, Mr W told Mr M that factors such as the amount 
he was investing, the timescale and his objectives were all relevant when deciding to make a 
high risk investment. Although I havent seen evidence that Mr M provided this information to 
Mr W when he was investing in the EIS, given their existing relationship, I think Mr M could 
reasonably have understood that Mr W was giving him advice and that he considered the 
EIS to be a suitable investment for him.  
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr M was a customer of Quilter and that Mr W had been 
acting as his financial adviser since at least October 2015. I think Mr W offered a value 
judgment on the EIS investment, which Mr M acted on. Taking account of these points and 
all the evidence Ive seen, as well as the FCA guidance Ive referred to, on balance, I find 
that Quilter did offer Mr M advice to invest in the EIS. 
Was the advice suitable?
Ive looked next at whether the advice Quilter gave to Mr M was suitable for him. 
Before giving advice, Quilter should have considered Mr Ms financial situation, his 
knowledge and experience of investing, and his investment objectives. That would include 
taking account of his attitude to risk, his purpose in investing, and how long he wanted to 
invest for. Quilter should also have made sure they communicated information to Mr M in a 
way which was clear, fair and not misleading.  
Mr W had been Mr Ms financial adviser since at least October 2015. So, I think its likely that 
Mr W would already have known something of Mr Ms financial situation and investment 
plans. But Ive not seen evidence that he considered everything he should have before 
making a recommendation to Mr M. And, based on the evidence available to me, I dont 
think the EIS was a suitable investment for Mr M, for the following reasons:
 
Ive not seen evidence that Mr W discussed Mr Ms investment objectives with him and 
its not clear from the email exchanges what Mr Ms objectives were. Mr M has said that 
he intended to use his £100,000 of savings to start a pension or pay off tax. Mr M was 
self-employed and given what I know of his circumstances, I think what he has said is 
plausible. The aim of the EIS was to achieve a strong target return while providing the 
tax reliefs that investments of that kind offered. Ive not seen any reference to tax 
mitigation being an objective of Mr M at the time. And overall, Im not persuaded that the 
EIS was in line with Mr Ms investment objectives. 
The EIS was a high risk investment that put all of Mr Ms capital at risk. Ive not seen 
evidence that Mr M was asked about his attitude to risk at the time he invested. He has 
said his attitude to risk was low and that, although he held some shares, he was not an experienced investor. Based on what Mr M has said and the emails Ive seen, I think he 
most likely had some investment experience, but I dont think he had any experience of 
high risk investments like the EIS, or that it matched his attitude to risk.
The evidence from the time contains very little information about Mr Ms financial 
situation. Mr M has said he was self-employed with an inconsistent income. He has 
provided a copy of his personal tax records for 2016 to 2017 showing a total income of 
about £72,000. He has also provided a statement showing his current account had an 
average balance of about £55,000 between January 2016 and January 2017. And Mr M 
says he had a savings account with a similar balance which he used when he increased 
his EIS investment to £100,000. I accept that I cant be sure of Mr Ms financial situation 
when he invested. But Ive not seen evidence that Mr M had the capacity to recoup any 
losses he might face from a high risk EIS investment. So, I think he was most likely 
advised to expose too much of his money to a high level of risk and Im not persuaded 
that was brought sufficiently to his attention.  
I note that in his EIS application form Mr M signed the statement for self-certified 
sophisticated investor. Ive seen no evidence that Mr W took any steps to establish 
whether Mr M could self-certify as a sophisticated investor. Based on what Ive seen, 
I think Mr M most likely would not have met the definition given on the form and I dont 
think he sufficiently understood the risks involved with the EIS investment.   
For these reasons, I dont think the advice Mr M was given was suitable. If Mr M had 
understood the extent of his overall exposure to risk, I think he would have concluded that 
the EIS investment would expose him to more risk than he wanted to take. If Mr M had been 
given suitable advice, I think he would most likely have invested differently. I have therefore 
decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint and tell Quilter to put things right.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr M as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Quilter should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Enterprise 
Investment 
SchemeStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr M agrees to Quilter taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Quilter to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr M that he repays to Quilter any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Quilter may also add to the actual value any available tax reliefs Mr Y has received by virtue 
of making the investment. It may ask him for evidence of this or assume he has availed 
himself of all available relief at his marginal rate of tax. For ease it can calculate the value of 
the available relief and add it to the actual value as one figure at the end.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Quilter should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. 
If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left 
uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr M's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr M would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd.
Quilter Financial Services Ltd should pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
They should provide details of their calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman