DRN-3892557
The complaint
Miss C complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund payments she didnt make from her account.
What happened
Miss C says she realised that payments had been made from her account she didnt 
recognise and reported this to Revolut. All the payments were made on 11 August 2021 to a 
food delivery merchant. And came to over £1,000.
Revolut said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It said that it had found no evidence of 
fraud on Miss Cs account. It said that the payments were made using the app. And there 
was no evidence of unauthorised activity. The payments didnt meet the criteria for a 
chargeback.
Our investigator recommended that the money be refunded to Miss C with simple interest of 
eight percent and £75 compensation. Revolut said that the payments were made with a 
virtual card present only on the app. She didnt think it had been able to show that Miss C 
created this from her device. And this had been created in April 2021 and she didnt think it 
likely Miss C would have waited to use this. Revolut hadnt been able to show which device 
was used for the payments. She didnt think Miss C had authorised the payments and as 
these were distance contracts Revolut was liable to refund them.
Revolut didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. It provided information about 
the virtual card and how the payments were made. It said that it couldnt attribute them other 
than to Miss C or someone shed allowed to use her account. It noted what the merchant 
had said to Miss C about the way the payments were made and that any issue would have 
originated from her Revolut account.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 24 November 2022. I set out below what I said.
I explained that I needed to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in 
considering this complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was 
consented to. So, its not enough for it to be authenticated with Miss Cs details. And if they 
werent authorised Miss C wouldnt generally be responsible for them as in this case these 
were distance contracts.
So, I would be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card details used for these 
payments?
- Did Miss C either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the virtual card as Revolut says?
- Did Revolut act reasonably?
I said I wouldnt be able to say exactly what happened and I would be thinking about what is 
most likely.
Id looked at the information about the virtual card on the account. This was set up on 29 
April 2021. I could see that only one phone device had ever been used to access Miss Cs 
account. Revolut says theres been no change to the password or other details to the 
account. I noted the time before the card was used and I thought it unlikely that if a fraudster 
had somehow created the virtual card it wouldnt have been used until August 2021. So, I 
found this was most likely created by Miss C.
Id seen a record from Revolut showing that the virtual card details were used for the 
payments. And this has been confirmed by the merchant who also explains that the 
payments were verified using 3 D Secure. Revolut says that this would have happened 
through the app. I was satisfied that the payments were authenticated with Miss Cs details.
The issue is whether she consented to them. Miss C has said to this service that she had a 
passcode on the Revolut app and that shed not written this down or shared it with anyone. 
She also said she had a passcode on her phone.
There was no use of the virtual card before the day of the disputed payments. There was no 
access to the app with any other device. So, the only way the card details could have been 
found out is through the app. And as Ive said the merchant confirmed that a higher level of 
security was used to verify the payments.
That letter from the merchant does say that details were changed on Miss Cs account with 
it. And so, I understand that this had been done on a merchant account Miss C had used for 
genuine orders before. The merchant said that as these disputed payments were made 
using 3 D Secure if wouldnt be refunding them and directed Miss C to Revolut as her bank 
account provider.
I appreciated the pattern of payments is unusual with so much ordered within a short space 
of time and from 10 payments.  Almost all the money on Miss Cs account was taken and 
she says she didnt notice this until an account fee took the account overdrawn in December 
2021. 
I didnt see any likely way in which an unknown third party discovered the card details. And 
Miss C has said to this service that I am vigilant and take good care. That leaves the 
possibilities of Miss C making the payments or her allowing someone known to her access to 
her details to enable this to happen  through what would be apparent authority. And in that 
case even if shed only say expected one order to be made shed have consented then to 
what happened after that. A key point is that the person making the orders would have 
needed access to her phone at that time and shes not given any information say about that 
being somehow hacked or it being out of her possession. And even that wouldnt explain 
how the passcode on the app was discovered.
There was no indication about any concern from Revolut about these payments at the time. 
And as Id said they were verified, and this meant that it didnt have a basis to attempt a 
chargeback. They wouldnt have been eligible under the relevant scheme rules and a 
chargeback would have been bound to fail.
I knew Miss C would be very disappointed with my provisional decision not to uphold her complaint especially as Id taken a different position to our investigator in my assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut didnt make any further comments. 
Miss C was given an extension from 22 December 2022 until 5 January 2023 to respond 
given the holiday period. Miss C indicated shed like longer to advocate her case. But there 
were no exceptional reasons to extend this further and it was unclear what shed be able to 
provide in addition.
She had a telephone call with our investigator which Ive listened to, and she sent some 
further comments. Miss C said she was very disappointed and didnt know what else to do. 
She said that the payments by their nature were clearly fraudulent, and this was a huge 
amount of money. Miss C considered that there must have been a data breach as she was 
vigilant and was sure that she had kept her details safe and didnt believe that she was the 
point of entry for a hacker. And this virtual card which she accepted shed created had never 
been used before. She wasnt suggesting someone had taken her phone and she said there 
must be other cases where theres been a system breach. She emphasised that she hadnt 
made any fraud claim at any financial business before. And she referred again to what the 
food delivery merchant had said in its letter and that this was fraud.
I accept that the main point suggesting fraud is the nature of the payments and that they 
came within a short period. As I referred to in my provisional decision the letter from the food 
merchant isnt in my view clear evidence of payment fraud though. What it says is that the 
payments were made and authorised using strong customer authentication (3 D Secure). 
And it says it did this because it had detected changes to her account. So, it wont refund 
them and says the bank involved with the payments should. It says that its systems werent 
compromised. And access to Miss Cs account with the merchant to make any changes was 
due to a password likely being leaked from another platform. 
But this doesnt deal with how the payments were made. Im going to summarise some key 
points about that:
- Miss C does accept she set up the virtual card and this had never been used before 
these disputed payments.
- The payments were made using this virtual card.
- There was no new device registered to the account for these payments.
- The payments were authenticated using strong customer authentication.
- Miss C says no one had access to her phone or passcodes and that she kept these 
secure.
- The only way the payments could have been made was through the app. I can expand 
on that now and say that even if say her card details had been somehow leaked or 
compromised and about which there is no evidence and so likelihood  then that 
wouldnt necessarily help explain how strong customer authentication was made 
through the app on a recognised device.I need as I said in my provisional decision to consider the most likely explanation taking into 
account the evidence. And to decide whether its reasonable for Revolut to hold Miss C 
responsible for these payments. Having balanced all the factors and Miss Cs testimony Im 
afraid I remain of the view that the most likely explanation is that these payments were 
authorised. And so, I dont have a reasonable basis to require Revolut to do anything more.
If Miss C doesnt accept my decision she remains free to pursue this in court subject to any 
relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision I that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman