DRN-4269168
The complaint
Mr B complains about the outcome of a claim he made to NewDay Ltd in respect of an 
inspection and report carried out on his vehicle. 
What happened
Mr B bought a car in August 2022 and noticed shortly afterwards it had been extensively 
repaired. He came to an arrangement with the dealership who sold him the vehicle to supply 
a costing for repairs. 
Mr B consulted a third-party garage who found and corrected issues with the wheel 
alignment and who told him the vehicle would need a structural evaluation if it kept pulling to 
the nearside. So, Mr B got in touch with a company Ill call C and paid £161.03 using his 
NewDay credit card for an inspection to be carried out and a report of what the inspection 
found.
Mr B says he received confirmation from C that a mechanic who Ill call J would be carrying 
out the inspection. However, he received a message on the morning of the inspection saying 
a mechanic who Ill call F would now attend. 
F carried out the inspection and completed the report. Mr B noticed the report said the 
vehicle was pulling slightly to the left. However, he says it was evident the vehicle was 
pulling severely to the left when F drove the vehicle and that F agreed. Mr B also saw there 
were things highlighted as good/green in the report for certain parts of the vehicle which he 
says werent actually checked.  Mr B says F told him he couldnt put on his report what he 
wanted to, because of constraints with the software he was using but promised to send Mr B 
an e-mail to set out what hed seen. 
Mr B then exchanged several messages with J who told him the report didnt need to be 
corrected as it was a true and accurate reflection of what was found on his vehicle. Mr B said 
that J wasnt present at the inspection so questioned how he could make that judgment. 
Mr B asked NewDay for help in reclaiming his money back saying that he hadnt received 
the service hed paid for. NewDay raised a chargeback, but this was defended by the 
merchant and NewDay didnt take this any further. Mr B then made a claim to NewDay under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) but this was rejected. NewDay 
said there was no evidence of a breach of contract. However, they didnt tell Mr B the 
outcome of the claim and, upon receiving Mr Bs complaint, paid him £50 for their poor 
service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said there was no evidence to suggest 
the information shown in the report was wrong, so didnt feel there had been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation. And he said that Mr B had received the services hed paid 
for. So, he felt NewDay were correct to decline Mr Bs Section 75 claim and to not take the 
chargeback any further. 
Mr B didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are typically two avenues here that NewDay as the provider of credit could have 
considered. 
Chargeback 
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
What this means here is that NewDay can in some circumstances ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant that the 
consumer paid for. But the chargeback process doesnt give the consumer legal rights and it 
isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response 
to the request the bank submits. 
There first must be a right to apply for a chargeback under the card scheme rules. And Id 
consider it to be good practice for NewDay to raise a chargeback if it has a good chance of 
being successful. 
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided based on the card schemes rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. So, its not for NewDay to decide 
whether the inspection and report was incorrect as Mr B claims or that he should get his 
money back for it. NewDay should raise the appropriate chargeback and consider whether 
any filed defence complies with the relevant chargeback rules. From what Ive seen, thats 
what NewDay likely did in respect of the claim for £161.03. Ill explain why. 
NewDay raised a chargeback for Mr B and the merchant defended the claim. And the 
merchants defence was enough to mean the chargeback for that particular claim didnt 
succeed. Where the merchant challenges a chargeback, a bank doesnt have to carry out a 
detailed investigation into what actually happened to decide which party deserves the 
money. In fact, most banks wont take a chargeback any further if its defended. In this case, 
NewDay decided not to take the dispute any further because they didnt think it had a 
reasonable prospect of succeeding. I cant say that NewDay made any mistake or acted 
incorrectly by making that decision. It wasnt the case for example that the merchants 
defence was noticeably poor or lacking in credibility. And Mr Bs response to the defence 
didnt include any additional evidence that might have led NewDay to think otherwise. 
So, with all this in mind, Im satisfied that NewDay dealt with Mr Bs chargeback claim 
reasonably.Section 75 
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable I need to have regard to, amongst other 
things, any relevant law. In this case, the relevant law is Section 75 which says, in certain 
circumstances, if Mr B paid for goods and services, in part or whole, on his NewDay credit 
card, and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, NewDay can 
be held responsible. Im satisfied that the necessary criteria for Mr B to make a Section 75 
claim was met. 
Ill firstly briefly explain the nature of the contract Mr B entered into. In effect, Mr B used the 
services of C to find someone to inspect the vehicle and provide a report. C, I understand, 
operates as an independent booking platform who passed on Mr Bs details to the company 
that J owns. J then presumably arranged for F to inspect the vehicle and compile the report. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Mr B paid the company that J owns so it is with that company 
with whom Mr B had the contract to provide the services. So, any complaint about a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation would be in relation to the contract between Mr B and the 
company J owns. 
Theres no dispute that F inspected Mr Bs vehicle. And Ive seen a copy of the report. So, in 
the first instance, Mr B was provided with something that was agreed between the parties. 
Ive considered what Mr B has said about the inspection and the report. I dont find though 
there is enough evidence to support his claim that the report didnt accurately cover what F 
saw and determined. F hasnt, for example, mentioned independently from what Mr B has 
said, that he had problems with the software and that he couldnt accurately detail what hed 
seen. 
The report details that the vehicle was pulling slightly to the left and I think that is the main 
point that Mr B disputes. However, Ive seen no persuasive evidence that this wasnt 
representative of what F found. If Id been presented with a report from an alternative source 
that cast significant doubt on that, or indeed differed significantly from the findings in the 
report F compiled, I might have been persuaded to side with Mr B on this point. But I havent 
seen any such evidence. 
I note Mr B was surprised that F turned up on the day, rather than J. However, I dont think 
this equates to a misrepresentation as Mr B has said if, as I suspect, J simply arranged for F 
to carry out the inspection and report. Mr B was, it seems, happy for F to go ahead with this. 
Although J has defended the claims from Mr B, having not attended the vehicle on the day, 
that doesnt mean the contract wasnt performed as agreed. Having considered the matter, I 
havent seen enough evidence of a breach of contract. As such, I dont think NewDay acted 
unfairly or unreasonably when they declined Mr Bs Section 75 claim.
Mr B has mentioned that NewDay has damaged his credit file by crediting his account with 
£50 for the poor service which I have referred to in my decision. Mr B should refer this to 
NewDay separately so they can investigate. If Mr B consequently complains to NewDay 
about this, and isnt happy with their response, he can refer the matter to us. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman