DRN-4307872
The complaint
Mr S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited mishandled his claim 
on a motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a hatchback car, first registered in 2017.
Mr S acquired the car in late November 2022. At that time, Mr S paid about £425.00 for three 
years SMART insurance for costs of repair to minor dents, light scratches, light scuffs and 
chips as a result of accidental damage. There was an aggregate claim limit of £3,000.00. 
The policy was in the name of a company acting as administrator. Red Sands was the 
insurance company that was responsible for dealing with any claim. A nominated repairer 
was to carry out any repairs.
Much of the complaint is about acts or omissions of the administrator. Insofar as I hold Red 
Sands responsible for such acts or omissions, I will refer to them as acts or omissions of 
Red Sands.
In late February 2023, Mr S claimed on the policy. Red Sands arranged repair and paid the 
repairer.
Mr S made another claim in mid-April 2023. Red Sands approved repair. 
But Red Sands told Mr S that he had almost reached the claim limit of £3,000.00. Mr S 
complained to Red Sands about that.
By a final response dated late April 2023, Red Sands said that the repairer charged £148.20 
for each repair/claim. The final response listed 18 claims Mr S had made in February 2023 
and the claim in April 2023. Those 19 claims totalled £2,815.80. Red Sands turned down the 
complaint.
Mr S and Red Sands exchanged some further emails.
Mr S brought his complaint to us in late May 2023.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that  
Red Sands had done anything wrong.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
It is outrageous that the same charge which seemingly is reasonable has been 
applied irrespective of whether the repair concerned a small dot of rust or a larger 
damage. 
The terms and conditions adopted by this insurer, specifically in relation to their 
charges appears to be at odds with other providers.
Obviously, the actual cost of each repair might differ, and it is a blatant sham to be 
applying a universal charge. 
The policy documentation shouldve mentioned the repairers £148.20 charge to 
ensure clarity, but it didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint about regulated (or 
ancillary) activities by a regulated financial firm. 
I dont consider that we have the power to investigate the fairness of the standard pricing 
structure agreed between Red Sands and its nominated repairer. In any event, I would 
consider that a standard charge of £148.20 didnt treat Mr S unfairly as it applied equally to 
all other policyholders.
Different insurers may have different policy terms. That doesnt persuade me that  the Red 
Sands policy terms treated Mr C unfairly.
I wouldnt expect the policy documents to state the pricing structure for repairs - especially in 
a three-year policy in a time of generally rising prices.
From the photographs, Im satisfied that in February 2023, Mr S claimed for repair of  
damage which  under the policy terms  was 18 separate chips, scuffs and scratches (and 
no dents). Under the arrangements between Red Sands and its repairer, each of the 18 
items attracted a charge of  £148.20, so the total was £2,667.60.
The April 2023 claim took the total to £2,815.80, close to the claim limit of £3,000.00. 
I can see why Mr S was unhappy that the claim limit wasnt likely to last for the three years. 
However, Im satisfied that Red Sands handled the claims in line with the policy terms. So I 
dont consider that Red Sands treated Mr S unfairly.
Also, I note that, after the final response, Red Sands told Mr S that the repairer had refunded 
3 of the charges of £148.20 (£444.60), so they had been added back to the remaining 
balance of the £3,000.00 limit (or, as I would say, deducted from his claims total).
In conclusion, I havent found that Red Sands treated Mr S unfairly. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Red Sands to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2023.  
Christopher GilbertOmbudsman