DRN-3880540
Complaint
Mr W has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable and were therefore 
irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Mr W with a first loan for £1,500.00 in July 2016. This loan 
had an APR of 127.1% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £3,115.44, including interest, fees and charges of £1,615.44, was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments of just under £130. 
Everyday Loans then provided Mr W with a second loan for £3,000.00 in November 2018. 
This loan had an APR of 149.3% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount 
to be repaid of £6,991.92, including interest, fees and charges of £3,991.92, was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just over £290. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ws complaint and she thought Everyday Loans ought 
to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr W with either of his loans. So she thought 
that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. 
Everyday Loans agreed with the outcome on loan 2 but disagreed with what the adjudicator 
said on loan 1. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. As the parties 
appear to be in agreement on the outcome reached for loan 2, this decision on only looking 
at whether Everyday Loans should have provided Mr W with loan 1.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr W could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before loan 1 was provided. The results of which showed that Mr W already had a significant 
amount of existing debt with high cost and payday lenders. Furthermore, the credit search as 
well as other information obtained showed that Mr W use of such credit wasnt a one off and 
hed been taking out such credit for an extended period. 
Im also concerned that Everyday Loans own income and expenditure calculation showed 
that this loan would take Mr W right to the margin of his disposal income. And Everyday 
Loans relied on the use of average data to calculate Mr Ws living expenses when arriving at 
its monthly disposable income figure. This is despite the fact that Mr Ws credit file showed 
he didnt fit the profile of the average borrower and the bank statements obtained suggested 
he was paying more in rent. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr W has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Ws financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ws version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ws existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to loan 1, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided loan 1 as well as loan 2 to            
Mr W. As Everyday Loans provided Mr W with loan 1, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr W ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr W lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr W by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr W paid on loan 1 (as well as loan 2 as it 
has already agreed to do);
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr W to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mr Ws credit file as a result of loan 1 
(and loan 2 as it has already agreed to do). 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman