DRN-1586998
complaint
Mr H complains about the decision made by ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) to no 
longer provide him with travel insurance cover. 
background
Mr H held an annual travel insurance policy with ERV. He then called ERV to advise it hed 
had a change of health since taking out the policy. ERV decided that based on the change to 
Mr Hs health, it no longer wished to provide him with cover. 
As Mr H already had a trip booked, ERV gave him three options. It said he could cancel the 
trip and submit a cancellation claim. Or he could cancel the policy and receive a pro-rata 
refund. Finally, he could take out a single trip policy with another insurer, and ERV would 
reimburse him for the cost of this up to the lower amount of: the cost of the holiday; the 
maximum cancellation benefit; or the loss of deposit (if thats all Mr H would lose in the event 
of cancellation). 
Mr H decided to go ahead with the trip. He arranged cover through another insurer, but was 
unhappy that ERV wouldnt reimburse him the full premium cost. He also thought ERV had 
no right to withdraw his cover partway through the policy year. Mr H therefore brought a 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought ERV had been 
entitled to decide that it no longer wanted to provide Mr H with cover, and thought ERVs 
settlement offer had been fair.  
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy explains that if the insureds health changes after purchasing the policy, they 
should contact ERV where further questions would be asked about their condition. The 
policy then explains:
This may result in an additional premium to allow cover to continue, to add additional Terms 
and Conditions to your policy or to exclude cover for the newly diagnosed condition or for the 
condition that has undergone significant change. 
If we are unable to continue to provide cover, or if you do not wish to pay the additional 
premium you will be entitled to make a claim under Section 1 (Cancellation) for your costs 
which cannot be recovered elsewhere for trips booked prior to the change in health. 
Alternatively, you will be entitled to cancel your policy, in which case, we will refund a 
proportionate amount of your premium. As our investigator has explained, it was up to ERV if it wished to cover Mr H after he 
advised it of his change of health. Although Mr H was understandably disappointed with 
ERVs decision, this was a commercial decision that ERV was entitled to make. 
The approach of this service is that where there has been a change of health and an insurer 
withdraws cover as a result - wed expect the insurer to give the insured the opportunity to 
cancel their trip, and then pay a cancellation claim (taking into account any other policy 
terms). This approach is reflected in ERVs policy terms, as Ive quoted above. 
In Mr Hs case, ERV went a step further than it was required to under the policy. It said that if 
Mr H decided to go ahead with his trip, then so long as he took out travel insurance 
elsewhere that covered his conditions, it would reimburse him for this up to the amount it 
would have paid under a cancellation claim. I think that was fair. 
Mr H decided to go ahead with the trip. He took out a single trip policy with another insurer 
costing £1,379.53. He wanted ERV to reimburse him in full for this. However, ERV only paid 
him £892.24. This was based on the total cost of the flights (less the air passenger duty 
which isnt refundable under the policy) and half the hotel costs. The policy excess was also 
deducted. 
I think ERVs settlement was appropriate. The offer to reimburse Mr Hs premium with 
another insurer was limited to the cancellation charges ERV would have been required to 
pay under the policy if Mr H had decided to cancel his trip. Im satisfied the settlement 
reflected this. 
Mr H says ERV didnt take into account the loss of air miles which hed used to buy his 
ticket. However, the refund for the flight was based on the total price of the flight, which Mr H 
paid for using both cash and air miles. ERV didnt limit this aspect of the settlement to the 
amount Mr H had paid in cash towards the flight (even though I understand Mr H could have 
claimed back the air miles in the event of cancellation of his trip). 
Mr H says his holiday was arranged with his partner. And although his partner wasnt 
covered under the ERV policy, he says if it had been necessary for him to cancel, then his 
partner wouldnt have been able to go. He thinks ERVs settlement should take into account 
the cost of his partners flights. 
The policy only covers Mr H, not his travelling companion. If it had been necessary for him to 
cancel his trip, he wouldnt have been able to make a claim for his partners flights under the 
ERV policy. Consequently, it was appropriate for ERVs settlement to only take into account 
the amount it would have paid if Mr H had cancelled his trip.  
Mr H is also unhappy that ERVs settlement only took into account half the hotel costs. 
However, given that his partner was liable for half the hotel cost, I think it was appropriate for 
ERV to only reimburse half this cost to Mr H.
Mr H wanted ERV to pay for some other flights, however these hadnt been booked at the 
date that ERV withdrew cover under the policy, so I dont require ERV to take the cost of 
these flights into consideration. 
In summary, whilst I can understand Mr Hs frustration that ERV decided to withdraw cover, 
it was entitled to make this decision. However, given that Mr H already had a trip booked, it 
was also appropriate for ERV to give Mr H the opportunity to cancel that trip and for it to deal 
with a cancellation claim. ERV went a step further and said that if Mr H wanted to go ahead 
with the trip, then if he took out a single trip policy which covered his conditions, it would reimburse him up to the amount it would have paid under a cancellation claim. I think that 
was fair, and Im satisfied the settlement it paid was correct.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman