DRN-4388894
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the way Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal 
Finance has dealt with a claim she made to it in relation to replacement doors and windows 
supplied and fitted by a third party C.
Novuna provided finance for the work and Mrs G brought this claim under the connected 
lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
C entered into an agreement to supply and install replacement windows and doors at 
Mrs Gs property. The total cost for the work was £9,388. Mrs G made an advance payment 
of £950 as a deposit. Novuna provided a fixed sum loan agreement for the balance, which C 
arranged for Mrs G.
According to Mrs G, the installation didnt go well. She had concerns over the condition and 
appearance of the doors and windows, and with the approach taken by the fitters. She 
documented her concerns in lengthy correspondence with C. Mrs G wanted C to rectify the 
problems, but their attempts led to more aggravation and frustration.
Mrs G contacted Novuna to tell it about the issues with the installation. She said she wanted 
to make a breach of contract claim under section 75. Novuna liaised with C to undertake 
further remedial work. However, this didnt go well either, with C failing to complete the 
remedial work as scheduled. Mrs G gave Novuna a list of the problems and fixes she felt 
remained outstanding. Mrs G told Novuna that by this stage shed lost confidence in C.
Novuna arranged for C to visit Mrs Gs property again to undertake further remedial work. 
Following this C considered it had rectified the problems. But Novuna and Mrs G couldnt 
reach agreement over whether the work was completed satisfactorily. With the assistance of 
S, a third party, Mrs G sought to pursue her breach of contract claim. Through Novuna, C 
proposed using a third party mediation service. Mrs G didnt want to participate in this 
approach. She felt Novuna hadnt dealt with her claim properly and instead referred her 
complaint to us.
Novuna offered Mrs G £150 to recognise the inconvenience shed been caused by its delays 
in dealing with her claim. It told us that, while there were some remaining matters to be 
attended to, C had told it these could be fixed very quickly and didnt justify refunding the 
costs of the door and side panels or additional discount Mrs G had asked for.
Mrs G remained unhappy and proposed obtaining an independent report from RISA, an 
accredited independent inspection company. Novuna was amenable to this proposal and 
instructed RISA accordingly. The RISA report indicated shortcomings with the installation 
and a specific failure to meet Building Regulations, all of which required remedial work.
After receiving RISAs report, Novuna said C disagreed with some of the core findings in the 
report, but had made a further proposal to reduce the contract price by £478.80 and pay 
Mrs G £250 as a gesture of goodwill. It asked us to put the proposal to Mrs G. She rejected 
the offer, providing quotes for the recommended work that suggested the cost would be 
significantly greater.
Our investigator didnt think Novuna had done enough to address the breach of contract 
claim. Noting the RISA recommendations, he proposed a price reduction of 25%, broadly 
equating to £2,350. He was satisfied the £150 Novuna had previously proposed was 
appropriate to recognise the distress and inconvenience Mrs G was caused by its handling 
of the claim.
Mrs G was happy that the investigator had found shed not been treated fairly. But she didnt 
think the proposed resolution went far enough, given the likely costs shed be incurring in 
getting the rectification work done. She felt that an appropriate remedy would be for a price 
reduction of £2,833.50 (the original cost of the problem door and window) together with 
£1,000 to cover the approximate cost of the other remedial work listed by RISA. She also felt 
there should be some recognition that she wouldnt have the benefit of the 20-year 
guarantee that came with the contract she entered into with C.
Novuna didnt accept our investigators recommendation either. It didnt express a clear 
position as to what it considered its liability to Mrs G was, or whether it had any liability at all. 
It provided further submissions it had received from C, comprising what appear to include 
documents issued by the door manufacturer and others relating to measurement standards 
and approved gap tolerances.
my provisional findings
I recently wrote to both parties, setting out my proposed findings and how I thought the 
complaint should be resolved. In summary, I was minded to conclude the following:
The arrangements between Mrs G, Novuna, and C meet the requirements of section 75 
in terms of both financial limits and structure. Mrs Gs claim is founded in breach of 
contract, based on obligations incorporated into her contract with C under relevant 
provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). Those obligations relate to the 
quality of the goods and to the services C provided to Mrs G.
Based on the main points Mrs G has made, I can see how she might well argue that C 
failed in its obligation to perform the installation service with reasonable care and skill as 
set out in section 49 of the CRA. If so, then she has a like claim against Novuna. Shes 
provided evidence  in the form of photos and correspondence with C  in support of that 
claim.
The CRA contains explanatory notes in relation to section 49, which assist in considering 
whether a service has been performed with reasonable care and skill. The notes say It is 
generally accepted that relevant to whether a person has met the standard of reasonable 
care and skill are industry standards or codes of practice.
So its worth noting that in addition to the evidence Mrs G supplied to Novuna, it was also 
in possession of the RISA report. The inspector that visited Mrs Gs property and 
compiled the report set out his experience and qualifications, his methodology, as well as 
the documents and standards he considered. All of these appear in my view to be 
relevant to the inspection and report Novuna instructed him to undertake.
There seems little question, then, that the RISA report is of value in determining the 
question of whether C carried out its services with reasonable care and skill. The 
conclusions of the report make it clear that C did not do so. Im not persuaded of the 
relevance of the submissions Novuna provided in response to our investigators assessment. They are generic in nature and do not offer any opinion on the way in which 
C carried out its services towards Mrs G, which is the matter at hand.
On balance, I consider it would have been appropriate for Novuna to place rather more 
reliance than it has on the content and recommendations of the RISA report. While I can 
see why Novuna was attempting to engage with C to get the outstanding work done, 
there would have been a point at which Novuna ought to have set out its own position in 
respect of its potential liability, which under section 75 is both joint and several. Novuna 
passed on resolution proposals it received from C, but I dont think that was enough to 
say Novuna did a reasonable job in handling its response to Mrs Gs claim.
Having considered all of the available evidence, Im satisfied that theres enough to 
indicate that Novuna is likely liable to Mrs G in terms of her breach of contract claim. 
Noting the various attempts to undertake rectification work and the price reductions 
offered, I dont think that was ever really in doubt. So the remaining question is what 
Novuna should do to recognise that liability.
There are various remedies open to Mrs G under the CRA and in common law. Given the 
previous attempts at rectification, I think shed be entitled to seek a price reduction under 
the CRA, or another common law remedy, such as damages. Im not persuaded that a 
price reduction is necessarily the most appropriate remedy here; the substandard work 
still needs to be fixed. That isnt achieved simply by performing the original work for a 
lower price.
Mrs G has set out her own methodology, which is a combination of a price reduction and 
reimbursement of out of pocket costs shes likely to face in getting a third party to come 
and attend to the remaining work. That might not be quite as straightforward as it 
appears. As Mrs G noted in her claim, the cost of the door and window was heavily 
discounted and it might mean shed be out of pocket if she were unable to replace the 
items at a similar price.
An alternative and to my mind the most suitable remedy would be one that produces an 
end result in which Mrs G gets what she originally contracted to receive, for no more than 
the price she agreed to pay. That is, the doors and windows she ordered are supplied 
without defects and installed to a suitable standard, backed by guarantee.
Of course, I dont expect Novuna to perform that service for Mrs G  I dont think it would 
have the relevant expertise. Rather, Novuna should cover the cost of all of the work 
recommended in section 7 of the RISA report. It should ensure that the work is carried out 
by an appropriate FENSA fitting company that is acceptable to Mrs G. And that work 
should be undertaken at a time and date thats convenient to Mrs G, within a reasonably 
short period following her acceptance of my decision. Given the time of year, and subject 
to any supply concerns, I would suggest within six weeks though the parties can agree a 
different timescale between them if its appropriate to do so.
Mrs G has pointed out her concern over the guarantee given under the contract with C, 
which certainly would be unlikely to apply to the above work when carried out by a third 
party company. Its likely that the third party company would provide its own guarantee, of 
course. But such a guarantee might fall short of the level of protection afforded by the 
guarantee provided by C. If so, Novuna should undertake to cover the cost of obtaining a 
suitable additional guarantee, unless it is not possible for it to do so.
I now turn to the matter of the distress and inconvenience Mrs G has experienced. It can 
be difficult to successfully claim for this in a breach of contract action. The contract was 
not intended to provide peace of mind, or one purely for pleasure or relaxation. Its possible Mrs G might be successful if she pursued this aspect at court, but its by no 
means guaranteed. I dont think it would be appropriate for me to say Novuna has a clear 
liability to her under the breach of contract claim in this respect.
However, our rules do permit me to make awards to recognise material distress or 
material inconvenience Mrs G has experienced due to the way Novuna handled her 
claim. I note Novuna has already acknowledged some difficulty its delays caused Mrs G, 
having offered to pay her £150 compensation previously. I think the way Novuna has 
dealt with the claim falls rather short of what Id expect to see, which has further 
contributed towards Mrs Gs distress and inconvenience. Im minded to require Novuna to 
pay her £300 (inclusive of the £150 if its already been paid), which I think is a fairer 
reflection of her concern.
I note the loan was on a buy now, pay later basis with an interest-free period. Novuna 
has deferred the end of the interest-free period while the matter has been under our 
consideration. That was a fair step for it to take, and I appreciate the help it affords Mrs G. 
I think it would be appropriate for Novuna to continue this deferral until 1 December 2023. 
That is intended to allow a suitable period of time for Mrs G to decide on and make any 
necessary arrangements to repay the loan balance following resolution of her complaint.
I invited the parties to let me have any further information or evidence, if they wished, before 
I finally determined the complaint.
responses to my provisional findings
Novuna said it had nothing to add to my proposed resolution. But Mrs G didnt accept it, 
making the following points:
The relationship between her and Novuna, as well as C, has completely broken down
Novuna have fully supported C throughout this process and both parties still dont 
accept that theres anything wrong with the work carried out on her property, despite 
evidence to the contrary
Novuna initially refused to extend the deferral period beyond 9 September 2023 and 
only agreed to an extension after she complained to the Chief Executive. Shes had to 
fight with them every step of the way
the provisional decision still meant she had concerns over what would happen if:
she and Novuna dont agree on the fitting company
the work is not completed by the 1 December 2023. If the deferral period wasnt 
further extended she could be liable to pay the balance or have the threat of 
interest being charged on her account before the work is complete.
a comparable guarantee couldnt be found unless whole units were changed. 
Would Novuna be obliged to pay for this? How would that work in practice?
Mrs G said she would prefer to have a clean break from Novuna and start afresh with a new 
supplier of her choice and on her own terms. And she said she wanted a price reduction to 
enable her to do this, which should reflect the findings in my provisional decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive not been provided with anything to suggest that I should reach a 
different set of findings on the key aspects of the complaint. Novuna hasnt commented on 
my findings, and while Mrs Gs response touches on the way Novuna (and C) dealt with her 
concerns and the frustrations she felt, she hasnt sought to question the basis on which 
Novunas liability to her arises. I therefore fully adopt my provisional findings on these 
matters in this final decision.
I do appreciate Mrs Gs concerns over the proposed redress. This appears to be her primary 
reason for seeking an alternative resolution, so Ill focus here on why I remain of the view 
that the remedy I proposed is the reasonable way to deal with the dispute.
Mrs Gs preferred remedy of a price reduction is one that she is able to seek under the CRA. 
The CRA isnt specific as to the way in which a price reduction should be calculated. It says 
she has the right to require the trader to reduce the price to the consumer by an appropriate 
amount. The explanatory notes to the CRA say that a reduction in price of an appropriate 
amount will normally mean that the price is reduced by the difference in value between the 
service the consumer paid for and the value of the service as provided.
Even if the work C carried out that was sub-standard had no value, Ive already noted that 
the cost had previously been discounted. That might present a situation where the 
appropriate amount of a price reduction doesnt put Mrs G in the position whereby she can 
have the problem fixed. That is why I proposed  and still prefer  the remedy I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Its possible Mrs G could make an argument in court that she should be entitled to a 
combination of a price reduction and a common law remedy in damages. If Mrs G is insistent 
that this is the remedy she wants, she isnt obliged to accept the outcome Ive proposed. I 
can only suggest she takes independent legal advice before deciding her next steps.
I understand Mrs G would like some of the finer detail to be established before she feels able 
to accept or reject the outcome. My role here is to set out what I consider to be a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve a dispute over the way Novuna dealt with her claim. Under our 
rules Im required to do so with a minimum of formality. The resolutions we propose are 
rarely intended to cover all potential variables in a dispute; indeed, it is not always possible 
to do so. Mrs G will have to decide for herself whether she wishes to accept the settlement, 
bearing in mind the limited extent of any guarantees over future workmanship.
I see no obvious reason why Novuna would be unable to agree on Mrs Gs choice of an 
alternative fitter. It might be prudent if she were to obtain quotes from two or three fitters, to 
demonstrate the costs are reasonable. She can also discuss with the fitters the cost of any 
extended guarantee they might be willing to provide and include this in the quotes she 
submits to Novuna. If the work takes longer than 1 December 2023, then Mrs G is in no 
worse a position than she expected to be in when she originally contracted  she would 
either incur interest or make arrangements to repay the balance in full before the due date.
My final decision
My final decision is that in full and final settlement of this complaint, Mitsubishi HC Capital 
UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance should now take the following steps:
1. undertake to cover the cost of all of the work recommended in section 7 of the RISA 
report, including  where Mrs G is able to demonstrate the additional cost  the cost of 
obtaining an equivalent guarantee. Novuna should ensure that the work is carried out by 
an appropriate FENSA fitting company that is acceptable to Mrs GThis work should be undertaken at a time and date thats convenient to Mrs G, within a 
reasonably short period following her acceptance of my decision. Given the time of year, 
and subject to any supply concerns, I would suggest within six weeks though the parties 
can agree a different timescale between them if its appropriate to do so  for example, 
depending on the availability of a fitter, or if there is a delay in obtaining parts;
2. continue to defer the end of the interest-free period on Mrs Gs loan until 1 December 
2023, and contact her in good time prior to that date to set out how she might go about 
settling the loan, should she wish to do so; and
3. pay Mrs G £300  inclusive of the £150 if it has already paid this  in recognition of her 
distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman