DRN-3273975
The complaint
Mrs U complains that Aviva Health UK Limited declined her private medical insurance claim.
What happened
On 16 March 2020 Mrs U took out a private medical insurance policy insured by Aviva. In 
August 2020 she contacted Aviva to make a claim for a problem with her right knee. Shed 
been referred to a consultant orthopaedic surgeon and told she may need surgery. 
Aviva declined the claim. Mrs Us policy had been underwritten on a moratorium basis. That 
meant there was no policy cover for conditions for which, amongst other things, Mrs U had 
experienced symptoms within the five years before the policy start date. Aviva said Mrs Us 
medical evidence showed her pain in her right knee began in 2019, before the policy started, 
and her claim related to those symptoms. So the claim was caught by the moratorium and 
there was no policy cover.
Mrs U complained to us. She said:
In 2019 she had slight discomfort in her right knee and an x-ray in August 2019 
showed she had some wear and tear associated with her age. No further treatment 
was needed and she had no further pain until April/May 2020 which was bought on 
by long walks. Her GP recommended physiotherapy and the physiotherapist referred 
her to a consultant who arranged for a private MRI scan which showed shed 
damaged her knee. 
Aviva hadnt taken into account her consultants opinion that the knee problem she 
was claiming for wasnt related to her symptoms in 2019.
Shed cancelled her policy in October 2020 and wants Aviva to cover the costs shed 
incurred.
Our investigator said Aviva had fairly declined the claim.
Mrs U disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She added that:
In 2019 when shed seen her GP about a pain in her foot shed mentioned she had a 
few twinges in her knee so it was x-rayed at the same time as her foot. Her knee 
pain then went away and wasnt the same as the pain she developed in April/May 
2020.
Our investigator hadnt referred to her consultants letters. The consultant could write 
another letter saying she didnt have a pre-existing condition. 
Since she complained to us shed had knee surgery privately in Autumn 2021 and 
wants Aviva to also pay for the surgery and associated costs.
Our investigator told Mrs U that any new evidence from her consultant orthopaedic surgeon 
would need to be sent to Aviva to consider. Mrs U said if her consultant wrote a further letter 
repeating what hed stated that wouldnt be fresh evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. I have to decide whether Aviva fairly and 
reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs U but I dont 
uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy details what Aviva means by moratorium underwriting. The relevant part for 
Mrs Us circumstances is:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, if 
you had:
 symptoms of
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition in the five years before you joined the policy.
The policy defines a pre-existing medical condition as:
Any disease, illness or injury for which:
 you have received medication, advice or treatment, or
 you have experienced symptoms
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not before you joined the policy.
Aviva declined the claim because it considered Mrs U had symptoms of the condition, or 
related to the condition, during the five years before she took out the policy. So Ive 
considered, among other things, what Mrs U told Aviva when she made the claim and the 
available medical evidence to decide whether that was a fair conclusion for Aviva to make.
Ive listened to the August 2020 call when Mrs U made the claim. She told Aviva that shed 
had a problem with her right knee for well over a year because she had a x-ray in 2019 and 
was told it was wear and tear but since then her symptoms had got progressively worse and 
her MRI had shown lots of problems. When in that call Aviva declined the claim on the basis 
of the claim being for a pre-existing condition Mrs U said the pain she had in 2019 had been 
very slight and had only got very painful when she did a lot of walking in lockdown (which 
started in March 2020).  
From the information Mrs U gave Aviva in the call I think Aviva fairly understood that the 
symptoms of the knee problem she claimed for had begun before the policy started, so was 
pre-existing. Aviva told Mrs U it would review its decision if she provided her medical 
evidence, which was fair for Aviva to do.
The report from Mrs Us x-ray in August 2019 shows the clinical information as Knee pain 
esp walking downstairs often gives way. The x-ray diagnosed There is tricompartmental OA 
(osteoarthritis) which is most marked in the medial compartment.
Aviva saw notes of a telephone consultation between Mrs U her GP in July 2020. The GP 
noted right knee pain for a year or so.
The report from Mrs Us MRI in August 2020 shows a conclusion of Tricompartmental OA 
changes, more advanced in the medial compartment and patellofemoral joint. Small joint 
effusion with some synovial thickening. Medial meniscal tear.Aviva understood from the above evidence that Mrs Us MRI results in August 2020 showed  
an advancement of the tricompartmental osteoarthritis that had been diagnosed in the 2019 
x-ray, before the policy started. I think that was a fair conclusion for Aviva to make. The 2020 
MRI results refer to changes in Mrs Us tricompartmental osteoarthritis and the osteoarthritis 
in her medial compartment (both of which had been noted in the 2019 x-ray) had become 
more advanced.
Mrs Us consultants letter to Aviva in September 2020 enclosed his clinical notes and says:
This lady had no evidence of pre-existing clinical and symptomatic degenerative 
disease of the knees prior to her review in clinic today. Infact, bilateral x-rays 
including skyline views confirm a similar appearance in both joints.
She had a recent sudden onset of new symptoms and these would be attributable to 
her bone oedema and progression of degenerative changes to the medial 
compartment of the right knee.
Avivas notes show it did consider the consultants comments. It considered that although he 
said there was no evidence of pre-existing and symptomatic degenerative disease before 
September 2020, there was evidence from the 2019 x-ray report that Mrs U had showed 
tricompartmental osteoarthritis to be present which is a degenerative disease. And the 
clinical information in the report and information Mrs U gave to Aviva in the claim call 
showed she had been experiencing symptoms of knee pain/giving way in 2019. So I think 
from the overall evidence Aviva could reasonably consider Mrs U had shown symptomatic 
degenerative disease before the policy started.
Mrs U says she went to her in GP in 2019 mainly about her foot pain, but its clear she was 
also suffering from knee pain which is why her right knee was x-rayed. She told Aviva and us 
that the pain she had in 2019 was slight compared to the pain she had in 2020, after she 
took out the policy. But even if the pain wasnt as severe in 2019 Mrs U was still showing 
symptoms of tricompartmental osteoarthritis before the policy started. 
Given the overall evidence I think Aviva fairly and reasonably concluded that before the 
policy started Mrs U did show symptoms of the condition which she claimed for, or was 
related to the condition she claimed for. Under the policy terms that means the condition was 
pre-existing, and not covered by the policy terms. On the available evidence I find that Aviva 
fairly declined the claim.
If Mrs U wants to provide further evidence from her consultant she will need to send to Aviva 
so it can assess the new evidence. I think its fair to tell Mrs U that any such evidence would 
need to address why her consultant considers that the 2019 x-ray report didnt show 
degenerative disease of the right knee and why he considers that the claim condition isnt 
related to the 2019 x-ray findings and symptoms. If the parties dont agree after any new 
evidence has been assessed Mrs U can make a separate complaint, first to Aviva and then 
to us to consider.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman