DRN-2924589
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy with the amount of settlement paid by Union Reiseversicherung AG for his 
curtailed holiday. 
What happened
Mr V had planned to go on a skiing holiday with friends. Unfortunately, two days into the 
holiday, the Commonwealth Foreign Office (CFO) advised them to return home due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Mr V complied with the advice and returned to the UK on 16 March 
2020. He brought his claim to URV as he wanted the full cost of his portion of the holiday 
refunded. 
URV initially declined his claim and then, a few months later, accepted it. But the settlement 
it paid was less than Mr V expected because it only returned the cost of the unused 
accommodation, less the cost of his flights  which Mr V was unable to evidence and so 
URV applied a 25% deduction to the settlement amount. In total, Mr V received £458.78. His 
excess of £100 was included in that figure. 
Our investigator said that URV had assessed his claim fairly. She said that because it 
complied with the policy terms. But Mr V disagreed. He said that he paid over £1000 for the 
holiday and was unable to ski at any point. He accepted that hed need to pay the excess on 
his policy. But he thought it was unfair of URV to apply the 25% deduction for his flight costs. 
He also said that although he was on holiday for two days before he had to leave, he didnt 
get to go skiing and so he wanted URV to refund the costs associated with those two days. 
Mr V said that his travelling companions received a full refund for the whole holiday and so 
he wanted his insurer to do the same. 
Its now for me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold it because URV has settled Mr Vs claim within the scope of the 
policy terms. I understand that he would like a full refund of the planned trip, but the policy 
he has doesnt offer this in the circumstances. So, I think the settlement figure arrived at by 
URV is fair. Ill explain why.
The policy terms say;
We will pay you up to £1250 for your share of any unused accommodation, care hire and 
excursions that are directly related to your trip which you have paid for and cannot get back 
from anyone else, as well as any additional travel expenses incurred to get you home
This means that itll only pay for any unused accommodation costs and not for any loss of 
enjoyment. Its important to realise that the policy Mr V has simply doesnt afford him the 
level of cover he expected. I understand Mr Vs arguments about not being able to ski for the 
two days he was there, but that doesnt mean his insurer should pay him anything for that. 
Ive thought about whether his holiday was effectively curtailed from the day he arrived on 14 
March 2020, rather than the day he had to return home on 16 March, but Im not persuaded 
it was. I say that because Mr V was still able to access other amenities within the hotel and 
outside. For me to say his holiday was effectively curtailed on arrival would mean hed have 
had to be confined to his room for the two days he was there. Ive not seen any evidence 
that suggested this was the case and so I dont think URV need to do anything more on that 
point as its already refunded the costs associated with the unused five days out of seven 
and I think thats fair. 
Mr V also argued that the 25% deduction made by URV for the costs related to his flight was 
unfair. But I disagree. Insurers have an obligation to handle claims fairly  and I think URV 
did this because it gave Mr V the opportunity to find out the exact cost of his flights. The 
problem here was that this was a packaged holiday sourced through a third-party. And so, 
Mr V doesnt know the cost of his flight as it was part of a packaged deal. Ive seen the 
evidence supplied by the third-party agent that confirms this, but its not helpful to Mr V 
because it doesnt give a figure related to the cost of his flight. 
URV said that in those particular circumstances, it applies a standard 25% deduction to the 
settlement amount to cover those perceived costs, which is exactly what happened here. So, 
I dont think its treated Mr V unfairly by doing that. I note Mr V disagrees with this, but 
without any further evidence that supports his argument about this being incorrect, I dont 
think it disproportionate or unfair. 
I wanted to acknowledge Mr Vs comments about his travelling companions receiving the full 
costs of their holiday from their respective insurers. But I can only consider his policy and 
whether his insurer has acted in accordance with the policy terms. There are other, more 
comprehensive policies, that may well have covered the full cost of the holiday. But in these 
particular circumstances, Mr V was insured with URV and its terms are clear that it doesnt 
offer cover for loss of enjoyment, only the unused accommodation costs.  
 
My final decision
Its for all the reasons explained above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman