DRN-3340750
The complaint
Mr H complains about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) who declined his 
claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H had a contents insurance policy with RSA. He made a claim, as a wall unit fell from a 
wall and broke. RSA initially accepted the claim and agreed to send a payment of £450. But 
the payment wasnt made as it said that Mr H didnt have the correct cover on his policy, and 
it declined the claim. 
Mr H complained to RSA as he said that the cabinet was removable and because of its 
original cost, and that he was in a rental property, he would be taking the cabinet with him. 
So, it wasnt a fixture or fitting. 
In its final response, RSA said that as Mr H didnt have any buildings cover on his policy 
(which was only a contents cover) it said that, a wall unit formed part of a building and the 
claim remained declined. But as it initially told Mr H that it would accept the claim, which was 
an error, it offered £75 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused.
Mr H was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Her view was 
that the wall unit was deemed part of the building and as Mr H didnt have buildings cover, 
the wall unit wasnt covered under the policy. She also said that the £75 offered for the error 
of RSA initially accepting the claim was fair. So, she couldnt recommend that RSA accept 
the claim. 
RSA accepted the view, Mr H did not. He said that how the unit was fixed to the wall was 
irrelevant. The terms and conditions of the policy classed it as household goods and so it 
should be covered under the policy. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr H, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr H had a contents only policy with RSA. The main issue of this complaint is whether the 
wall unit is part of a building and excluded under the contents cover. 
Mr H said that the unit wasnt a permanent fixture of the building, as it could be removed. 
And it was his intention of removing the unit, once he moved out of the rental property. So, 
the unit should be covered by the contents insurance. 
I have carefully considered Mr Hs testimony and I have also reviewed the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
The policy defines what is meant by contents as: 
The definition for content is:
 Household goods
 Bicycles
 Valuables
 Personal money
 Business equipment
 Garden equipment and garden furniture
 Portable personal items including clothing and personal items worn or
carried. Examples include cameras, camcorders, sports equipment, laptops,
binoculars, mobile phones, luggage, bags, camping equipment, electric
wheelchairs and invalid carriages, spectacles, contact lenses, false teeth (but
not crowned teeth or bridgework), artificial limbs and hearing aids
 Home entertainment equipment such as computers, televisions, other audio
and video equipment, aerials and satellite receiving equipment
 Musical instruments
 Coin, medal and stamp collections
 Documents including deeds, bonds and securities.
I understand that Mr H has said that the unit is something that he would take with him. But I 
dont think that the definition of what amounts to contents as summarised in the policy, 
covers the wall unit. 
Mr H believed that the wall unit would be classed as a household good and so would be 
covered. But I cant see that the wall unit forms any part of the contents insurance as per the 
definition. And having reviewed the buildings part of the policy, which defines buildings cover 
as: Your home, drives, walls, patios, paved terraces, footpaths, tennis courts, fixtures and
fittings (examples below).. It goes on to provide details of what amount to fixtures and 
fittings as: 
 laminated flooring (but not fitted carpets which are covered under Contents
Cover if thats included in your policy)
 fitted kitchen units including fixed hobs in units
 fitted bedroom furniture
 permanently wired and fixed lighting.
RSA explained that as the unit was attached to the building in some way (which Mr H 
confirmed that it had been attached with the aid of screws and wall plugs) other than just by 
its own weight, then it is classed as a permanent feature of the property. Irrespective of 
whether a customer intends to remove the unit at a later date. 
It further explained the difference between the unit and an ornamental item such as a mirror 
or painting. Which is that an ornament that is attached to a wall, simply enables the item to 
be displayed and enjoyed and so is considered to be contents. The wall unit here was a 
fixture of the building and so cover could only be provided under a buildings insurance 
policy.  Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions and the further explanations given, Im 
persuaded that the unit couldnt be classed as contents. Consequently, I dont think that RSA 
were unreasonable to decline the claim as the unit was only covered under contents 
insurance and not buildings. 
I appreciate that this wouldnt be the outcome that Mr H wouldve liked. And I note the poor 
service that RSA provided regarding it initially accepting the claim. So, I have further 
considered this and thought about what steps RSA took to put matters right. It offered Mr H 
£75 for the trouble and upset its error caused. And Im satisfied, having considered the 
impact on Mr H of the error, that RSA was fair and reasonable in offering £75 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused. 
I understand RSAs offer of £75 compensation to resolve the complaint is still available to Mr 
H. If he now wishes to accept it and has not received the funds, I suggest Mr H contacts 
RSA to arrange payment.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome that Mr H wouldve liked but I hope Ive explained the 
reasons behind my decision, in that Im unable to ask RSA to accept the claim, as there was 
no cover in place. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman