DRN-4497623
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the price quoted by Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage) to renew her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B received a quote to renew her policy which she says was significantly higher than 
what shed paid the previous year. Mrs B queried this, and she says Advantage responded 
and said there was an open claim showing on her policy, so this may be the reason for the 
price increase. Mrs B felt this was unfair so she decided not to renew and complained to 
Advantage because they wouldnt provide her with any more detail about the price increase. 
Advantage responded and explained the claim on Mrs Bs policy remains open while theyre 
awaiting further information. Advantage explained, on this basis, theyve recorded the claim 
as open and fault, but they will update their records once theyre able to recover their outlay. 
Advantage said they, like all insurers, are facing a rise in claims costs and this is leading to 
an increase in the price of a policy.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B. She upheld the complaint as she felt 
Advantage hadnt provided our service with sufficient information to show no error had been 
made when calculating Mrs Bs renewal  so she recommended they pay Mrs B £100. 
Advantage disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mrs Bs renewal price for 2022 was £559.08 but she was then quoted a price of 
£1,561.65 in 2023. So, I understand why Mrs B is concerned about the price increase. The 
renewal invite does say a claim was made on Mrs Bs policy during the last year so 
Advantage say this may have affected the renewal price. I understand Mrs B is concerned 
this claim is showing on the policy, but Ive seen information which shows a claim was made. 
The information also shows Advantage hadnt recovered their outlay at the point they 
responded to the complaint. So, this means its still showing as an open claim  so I cant 
say its unreasonable for Advantage to take this claim into account when pricing Mrs Bs 
policy.   
When our service looks at complaints about pricing, well ask for information from a business 
to demonstrate why and how a price has increased. What information is considered 
reasonable will depend on a case by case basis, but insurers generally will provide 
confidential business sensitive information to explain how a customers price has been 
calculated. This might involve evidence of rating factors and loading tables to show, more 
specifically, which loadings have increased to justify the price increase. Generally, and 
particularly in cases where the price has increased significantly, its this level of detail that 
allows our service to check the information and provide a customer with reassurance that 
there hasnt been a mistake in the calculation and that theyve been treated fairly and no 
different to any other customer in the same circumstances.  
Advantage have described how their rating strategy now works  they say all ratings are built 
into the system and are produced electronically. They say, in this case, the renewal was 
calculated by the system with no manual intervention. They also say the premium is 
recalculated based on their current models  and these can change considerably over a   
12-month period. They say the claims Mrs B had wouldve impacted the risk calculation, both 
individually and as a combination. Advantage say their rates are tested thoroughly prior to 
going live and, when calculating Mrs Bs renewal price, there were no reported issues. They 
say based on this theyre confident the price is fair and correct. 
I can see Advantage have provided a screenshot showing a claim on Mrs Bs policy and I 
can see they say this has had an impact on the price. I acknowledge this, and I would also 
add that its not unusual or uncommon for this factor to impact the price. But I havent been 
provided with any information or explanation for how this impacted the price and to what 
extent. And Im not persuaded this demonstrates the price for the 2023 policy was calculated 
fairly. I say this because this doesnt provide sufficient information or an explanation for how 
claim specific rating factors  or any rating factors - have affected the price. 
I have carefully considered Advantages points about how their system works and the 
information provided. But, in the circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded theres 
sufficient evidence to satisfy me the increase is fair. 
I do wish to make it clear Im not saying there has been an error in the pricing calculation. 
Instead, the reason Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint is, given the significant increase in the 
price, I would need to see evidence and a clear explanation showing why and how the price 
increased as it did for Mrs Bs renewal  and in this case, this information hasnt been 
provided in a way which would allow me to reassure Mrs B that theres been no error here. 
So, taking this into account, I understand why Mrs B was left frustrated and confused by the 
price increase  and I think compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.     
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Advantage havent provided sufficient information or a clear 
explanation to demonstrate why and how Mrs Bs price increased as it did for her renewal. 
So Advantage should pay Mrs B £100 compensation for the frustration and confusion 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman