DRN-4172294
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) irresponsibly provided him with 
an overdraft which it continued applying charges on even when he was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ms complaint and thought we could look at the 
decision to provide Mr M with his overdraft because he complained too late and that 
Santander hadnt applied any of the more recent charges unfairly. 
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to look at his case and 
make a final decision.  
My provisional decision of 22 May 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 22 May 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Mr Ms complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that Santander would be familiar with all the rules, regulations and 
good industry practice we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly 
and reasonably when applying overdraft charges. So I didnt consider it necessary to set all 
of this out in this my provisional decision.
I then went on to confirm that we had already explained why Mr Ms complaint being made in 
November 2022 meant that we were unable to look at what happened on his account prior to 
November 2016. And this meant that my consideration of Mr M case was limited to what 
happened on Mr Ms account from November 2016 onwards.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I thought that Santander acted unfairly 
when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from November 2016, as 
by this point, Santander ought to have realised that Mr Ms overdraft had already become 
demonstrably unsustainable for him.
A cursory look at Mr M statements leading up to this period showed that his account hadnt 
seen a credit balance for an extended period of time and he was also borrowing from a high-
cost lenders. I could also see that he was gambling the overdraft funds in this account too. 
So it was my view that the activity on Mr Ms account didnt suggest he was in any sort of 
position to repay what he already owed without undue difficulty or borrowing further either. 
I thought that by November 2016 Santander should have stopped providing the overdraft on 
the same terms and treated Mr M with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, 
fees and charges on the overdraft. All of this meant that Santander should have realised that 
Mr M overdraft usage was indicative of there being a problem with the facility and offered 
him assistance. As Santander didnt react to Mr Ms account usage, I was minded to 
conclude that it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
I thought that Mr M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he 
was already experiencing difficulty. So it was my intention to conclude that Mr M lost out 
because of what Santander did wrong and that it needed to put things right. I then set out a 
method of compensation which I thought addressed Santanders shortcomings and Mr Ms 
resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M confirmed that he agreed with my provisional decision and that he had nothing further 
to add.
Santander didnt provide anything further for me to consider or ask for any additional time to 
do so. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint in my provisional decision 
of 22 May 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further to consider by the parties, 
Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
And I remain satisfied that Santander needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from November 2016 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
Mr M is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander to reach 
a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr Ms credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in November 
2016. Santander can also reduce Mr Ms overdraft limit by the amount of any 
refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave 
him over his limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Mr Ms overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so. HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman