DRN-1742624
 
The complaint
Mr S' complaint arises from his portfolio review, by Barclays Bank UK PLC ('Barclays'), in 
2019. In the main, he says:
1. He completed the review but Barclays wrongly concluded that he had not. In addition, an 
update to the review should - and could reasonably - have been scheduled for the next year 
when his retirement income details would be available, but Barclays refused to do that.
2. Barclays' Discretionary Management Service ('DMS') applied to his portfolio; Barclays 
decided upon application of a new portfolio value qualification for the service from 
September 2019; Barclays applied this prematurely to his portfolio earlier in 2019 when it 
said it would withdraw the DMS from his portfolio (because its value did not qualify).
3. His experience was inconsistent with his wife's - who had a comparable review with 
Barclays around the same time and a comparable portfolio value; who completed the review 
successfully; and who was allowed to retain Barclays' DMS for her portfolio.
4. Barclays' overall communication with him during his engagement with it (about the review 
and DMS matters) was unprofessional.
What happened
A chronology of key events (in 2019) is as follows:
1. Between February and April a number of telephone calls between the parties happened, 
in relation to the portfolio review. Mr S asserts that he answered all questions put to him at 
the first meaningful review call and that the review ought to have been considered 
completed on that basis. Barclays says the review was incomplete because he lacked 
information about his retirement income so review suitability could not be determined 
(properly). It says by April its repeated attempts to complete the review remained 
unsuccessful. Mr S asked for a postponement to the following year when his retirement 
income information would  be available. Barclays told him it had a regulatory duty to 
complete the 2019 review and could not postpone that duty. Mr S maintained his request for 
a postponement and, in April, Barclays told him that the DMS would be withdrawn from his 
portfolio if he did not complete the review.
2. In May, Barclays wrote to Mr S to give notice that his portfolio's DMS would be withdrawn 
(and replaced by the non-management Dealing and Custody Service (DCS)) on 15 July if he 
did not complete the review by then. It repeated this notice to Mr S in June.
3. Barclays says Mr S provided the relevant information in July and it confirmed that the 
review would continue. A few days thereafter it told him the review would no longer continue 
due to the change to the DMS (in terms of the portfolio value qualification) and the fact that 
his portfolio would not qualify for the DMS on the new terms. It wrote to Mr S, to this effect, in 
the same month and listed his options as being moving to the DCS, transferring his portfolio to another provider, liquidating his portfolio and closing his account or increasing his portfolio 
value to qualify for the DMS. If he did not select an option by 18 September the default 
course of action was movement of his portfolio to the DCS - which is what happened.
4. Between July and August both parties exchanged complaint related correspondence.
Mr S says his complaint about the review was overlooked by Barclays, as it focused on the 
matter of withdrawal of the DMS. He says the same about the complaint points summarised 
above - that they were not addressed. He also highlights that his wife had the opposite 
experience, despite having a comparable portfolio, whereby her review was completed and 
her portfolio retained the DMS.
Barclays says it apologised and offered £200 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr S by the 
fact he was given the impression, in July, that the review would continue when it ought to 
have told him that the review was redundant because his portfolio would no longer qualify for 
the DMS. Otherwise, Barclays maintains it did nothing wrong in seeking completion of the 
review or in applying the new qualification terms for the DMS. An interim portfolio value 
qualification level of £100,000 appears to have been applied, ahead of the main qualification 
level of £250,000, and Mr S' portfolio's value met neither.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be upheld 
and that Barclays should not have to do more than its offer of £200. She considered that the 
DMS was withdrawn from Mr S' portfolio as a reasonable commercial decision by Barclays; 
that Barclays accepts the same outcome should have applied to his wife's portfolio (because 
that too did not meet the portfolio value qualification level) but erroneously did not; that the 
withdrawal action was based on the service change (not the review matter); that he was 
given over 60 days (more than the requisite 30 days) notice of the service change and given 
reasonable options within it; and that Barclays' offer of £200 (for the reasons it explained) is 
fair.
Mr S disagreed with this outcome and maintained his key arguments. The matter was then 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complaint and I  have reached this conclusion for reasons broadly similar to those given by 
the investigator.
The Portfolio Review
I understand Mr S' point that the review was arguably completed upon him answering the 
questions put to him during the review telephone conversation with Barclays. However, the 
purpose for the review cannot be discounted and, because of that purpose, I do not accept 
the argument.
An important part of the review's purpose was the matter of suitability. I do not consider it 
unreasonable for Barclays to have taken the view that income related information (for Mr S) 
was relevant to that; and for it to have regarded the review incomplete because this 
information was unavailable.
I note Mr S' point about postponing the review for a year (up to around February 2020). 
Overall, I am not persuaded that this would have made a difference given that Barclays was 
not  contractually obliged to do so (although, I understand what appears to be Mr S' argument that it could have done so as a matter of discretion), that the relevant income 
information became available in July 2019 and that the DMS change applied by September 
2019. Furthermore, and as the investigator said, the DMS was withdrawn from his portfolio 
not because of the review matter but because of the change of service.
I appreciate why Mr S is unhappy that he was led to believe the DMS could be withdrawn 
from his portfolio prematurely. There is evidence of Barclays warning him about this (in 
relation to the review) in April, May and June 2019, and intending to withdraw it in July 2019 
despite the service change not taking effect until September 2019.
Barclays has offered £200 to Mr S for not giving him notice about the service change and 
withdrawal of the DMS at the time when it continued to encourage his engagement with the 
review. I consider this sufficient to cater for what Barclays has described; for the associated 
point by Mr S about being told the DMS could be withdrawn before September; and for his 
dissatisfaction with Barclays' communication (and service) in the matter.
Withdrawal of the DMS
I agree with the investigator's findings in this respect. In straightforward terms, it was within 
Barclays' reasonable commercial discretion to determine the terms of its DMS; it gave ample 
notice of the change of service to Mr S and sufficient options (with reasonable time - 
between July and September 2019 - to exercise any of those options); and, on balance, it 
gave a reasonable default option in terms of the DCS.
The comparison with Mr S' wife's portfolio appears to have been clarified. Mr S says 
Barclays retained the DMS for his wife and could or should have done the same for him. 
Evidence from Barclays is that it made a mistake in allowing Mr S' wife to retain the DMS. 
The implication is that the DMS should have been withdrawn from her portfolio as it was for 
Mr S' - and Barclays has suggested this could be looked into in the future. Mr S' wife's 
portfolio is not the subject of the present complaint, so I do not comment on it. As far as is 
relevant to Mr S' complaint (and portfolio) I am not persuaded by the comparison with what 
happened to his wife's portfolio; what happened was an error and that does not establish 
that the same (error) should have happened for Mr S' portfolio.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr S' complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 June 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman