DRN-2361413
The complaint
Miss K complains that BUPA Insurance Limited has turned down a claim she made on a 
personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Miss K is insured under a BUPA by You private medical insurance policy. In November 
2019, Miss K made a claim on the policy for an iron infusion following a consultation with a 
consultant haematologist, who Ill call Mr M. The consultant haematologist had diagnosed 
Miss K with recurrent iron deficiency due to menorrhagia. 
BUPA turned down Miss Ks claim. It ultimately said that the policy terms specifically 
excluded claims for preventative treatment and the treatment for the temporary relief of 
symptoms. While it acknowledged that Miss Ks symptoms were acute, it stated the iron 
infusion wouldnt treat her underlying condition of menorrhagia; it would only provide 
temporary relief. So it concluded that the claim wasnt covered. But it did tell Miss K that it 
would pay for her to have a consultation with a gynaecologist to look into the cause of her 
menorrhagia. 
Miss K was unhappy with BUPAs decision and so she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ks complaint should be upheld. He felt it was fair for BUPA 
to rely on Mr Ms clinical opinion to decide that Miss Ks treatment was intended to provide 
temporary relief of her underlying condition, rather than cure it. So he thought it was fair for 
BUPA to turn down Miss Ks claim.
Miss K disagreed. She responded to our investigator in detail, so Ive summarised her main 
points. She said that Mr M hadnt been qualified to diagnose what was causing her bleeding, 
he simply suspected it could be menorrhagia. She agreed that BUPA ought to investigate 
the underlying condition, but she said she and Mr M felt it was imperative that she underwent 
the infusion. She didnt accept that the iron infusion was simply preventative  she said it 
would cure her low iron levels. And she didnt accept that an infusion which would restore 
her low iron levels could be considered to be the temporary relief of symptoms. She 
considered BUPA was deliberately asking for additional information to persuade 
policyholders not to make claims. She told us that she hasnt had any further iron infusions 
and also that she wasnt ultimately diagnosed with menorrhagia by a gynaecologist. She felt 
the policy terms BUPA had relied on were too vague and open to interpretation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Miss K, I think it was fair for BUPA to turn 
down her claim. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Miss K that while Ive summarised her detailed responses to our 
investigator, Ive read and considered everything shes said and sent us. In making my 
decision though, I havent commented on each point Miss Ks raised and neither am I 
obliged to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Miss Ks policy and the available medical evidence to decide whether BUPA 
handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Miss Ks policy, as these form the basis of her contract with 
BUPA. This covers eligible treatment  which is defined as an acute condition. The policy 
defines an acute condition as: 
a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to Treatment which aims to return 
you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or 
injury or which leads to your full recovery. 
Miss Ks claim was for an iron infusion to treat very low iron levels. It seems that Miss Ks 
iron levels were leading to symptoms of dizziness and BUPA accepts that her symptoms did 
require treatment.
However, BUPA has set out a list of things it specifically doesnt cover. General Exclusion 21 
excludes, amongst other things, preventative treatment, procedures or other medical 
services. General Exclusion 24 excludes treatment which is for the temporary relief of 
symptoms. While I appreciate Miss K feels these clauses are vague, I dont agree. I think 
BUPA has set them out clearly in the policy wording and their intention is clear.
Based on the medical evidence provided by Mr M, BUPA concluded that Miss Ks claim was 
caught by these exclusion clauses. So Ive looked carefully at the available medical evidence 
to decide whether this was a fair conclusion for BUPA to draw.
Mr Ms first letter was dated 12 November 2019. He referred to Miss K being given a 
diagnosis of recurrent iron deficiency due to menorrhagia. The letter went on to say:
As you can see, her ferritin has fallen significantly over the last 3 months and she now 
requires a further total dose iron infusion which I will be arranging in the next 5-7 days. The 
cause of this recurrent iron deficiency is of course her menorrhagiaI would continue to 
follow her up regularly reserving any further total dose iron infusions against the eventuality 
of recurrent severe iron deficiency.
As the letter referred to Miss K having previously received an infusion, BUPA asked for more 
information from Dr M to ask why a further infusion would now cure Miss Ks anaemia when 
it hadnt done so previously. Given the definition of an acute condition, I think it was fair for 
BUPA to ask this question. Dr M responded as follows:It won't cure the problem but it will prevent (Miss K) from becoming very iron deficient again 
and suffering from the effects of recurrent anaemia since she cannot tolerate oral iron.
This infusion will restore her iron levels until her gynaecologist can start therapy to reduce 
menstrual blood loss which is the only curative approach here.
Dr Ms evidence clearly states that the iron infusion wouldnt cure Miss Ks underlying 
condition  but it would prevent her from becoming iron deficient again and suffering from 
recurrent anaemia until she received treatment for the condition causing the blood loss. 
Accordingly, the iron infusion wouldnt restore her to state of health she was in immediately 
before suffering the underlying condition. It seems to me then that it was fair for BUPA to 
conclude - from this specialist evidence - that the iron infusion was intended to provide 
temporary relief from Miss Ks symptoms of recurrent anaemia. And it was also planned to 
prevent Miss K from suffering from very low iron levels again until her underlying problem 
could be treated.  This means I dont think it was unfair for BUPA to rely on the two exclusion 
clauses Ive outlined above to turn down Miss Ks claim.  
I appreciate Miss K feels strongly that Dr M wasnt a gynaecology specialist and so wasnt 
qualified to provide a diagnosis of menorrhagia. However, Dr M appears to be a clinical 
specialist, whod had the chance to discuss Miss Ks ongoing symptoms which had resulted 
in her low iron levels with her. His opinion was that this was down to menorrhagia. As this 
was the only medical evidence which was provided to BUPA, I think it was reasonable for it 
to place significant weight on it when it considered Miss Ks claim.
The available specialist medical evidence shows the iron infusion doesnt appear to have 
been intended to be a cure for the condition which caused Miss Ks anaemia and wouldnt 
lead to her full recovery from it. So I dont think it was unreasonable for BUPA not to 
consider the iron infusion to be eligible treatment in line with the policy terms.
Overall, given the medical evidence available to BUPA at the time of Miss Ks claim, I think it 
was fair for it to conclude that the circumstances werent covered. I appreciate Miss K now 
says she wasnt ultimately given a diagnosis of menorrhagia by a gynaecologist and Im 
pleased to hear that she hasnt needed any further iron infusions. But for the reasons Ive 
outlined above, I think it was fair for BUPA to turn down Miss Ks claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman