DRN-3854224
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy how JAJA FINANCE LTD (JAJA) handled her request for help to recover 
money following a purchase to an event she made online. 
What happened
At the end of September 2020, Mrs J purchased a ticket to a two-day online event direct 
through the supplier, who Ill refer to as D. Mrs J expected D to be presenting live for the two 
days too. She paid £272.51 to attend the event, using her JAJA credit card. The event took 
place on 24 and 25 October 2020. 
A couple of days after the online event, Mrs J got in touch with D and told them she was 
unhappy with it as she hadnt received what shed been led to expect from it. She said the 
literature said D would be presenting live throughout the event, but this hadnt been the 
case. She said D had been introduced as a special guest at one time, but the rest of her 
involvement had been pre-recorded to be shown during the event. She also expressed some 
disappointment with the running of the event and some of the additional services provided. D 
acknowledged Mrs Js concerns but didnt address them. Mrs J tried on several more 
occasions to resolve the matter with D, but she couldnt. 
Because of this, she approached JAJA in mid-July 2021 and asked them for help to recover 
her money. She told them that shed paid for a live performance but much of it had been 
pre-recorded. Mrs J felt there had been a breach of contract. At this time, she told JAJA that 
shed been trying to sort the matter out with D for several months but hadnt been offered a 
solution. JAJA told Mrs J that her dispute was within the chargeback scheme rules 
guidelines and they sent her a dispute declaration form to complete, which Mrs J returned a 
week or so later.
Once Mrs Js dispute form was received JAJA informed her that they couldnt take her claim 
any further under the chargeback scheme as it was outside of the stipulated time limits. 
Mrs J wasnt happy with this and spoke to JAJA about it. They explained this again to her 
and considered whether she had a right to claim under Section 75 (S75) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. JAJA told Mrs J that they couldnt see any evidence of a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation occurring and her S75 claim couldnt be taken further. 
Unhappy with JAJAs response and handling of her request, Mrs J brought her complaint to 
our service. While our investigator was reviewing things, JAJA acknowledged that Mrs J had 
been given incorrect information during her first telephone call with them, and she shouldnt 
have been told her dispute was within the chargeback scheme rules guidelines. They also 
acknowledged that one of Mrs Js emails to them hadnt been responded to, and they offered 
Mrs J £100 compensation for these errors. Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint. 
He said the chargeback couldnt have been raised as it was outside of the chargeback 
scheme rules. Regarding S75, he said he couldnt see any evidence of a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation in the information provided. He said the information about the event 
didnt confirm how long D would be presenting live, so didnt think JAJA had acted unfairly by 
not accepting the S75 claim. He said they had made errors in their initial discussions with 
Mrs J but felt the £100 theyd offered was fair compensation. 
Mrs J didnt accept this. She said the sales literature confirmed the event as a two-day live, 
virtual event presented by D and a colleague. And she hadnt received this. Because of that 
she maintained that it was a breach of contract and a S75 claim should be considered. 
As Mrs J didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide. 
Prior to writing this decision I have been in communication with both parties. I explained to 
JAJA that I agreed with their reason for not taking a chargeback claim further. In relation to 
the S75 claim, I told them that, whilst I could understand why they had reached the 
conclusion they had, I felt they should have provided Mrs J with more explanation as to why 
they had said what they had. I asked them to think about increasing their offer to £200 in 
total. JAJA agreed. Mrs J didnt. She feels she should still be offered more back as she 
continues to believe the event was misrepresented to her. 
As shes still not in agreement, shes asked for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are different ways in which a bank can assist customers who have had issues with 
goods or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a 
refund from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visa. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for JAJA to ask for a payment Mrs J made to be 
refunded. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
In Mrs Js case, JAJA didnt raise a chargeback when she got in touch with them. And I 
understand why in this case. The chargeback scheme rules set out specific time limits in 
which a chargeback claim can be raised. In Mrs Js case the rules state that a chargeback 
claim must be raised within 120 days of the date the expected service was received. The 
final day of Mrs Js online event was 25 October 2020, so she had 120 days from then in 
which to ask JAJA to raise a chargeback for her. She didnt get in contact with them until 
July 2021, which is some way outside of the 120-day time limit. I can see from the 
information shes provided she was in contact with the supplier during that time trying to sort 
the matter out with them. But that doesnt put a suspension on any time limits within the 
chargeback scheme rules. As Mrs J had brought her concerns to JAJA outside of the 
chargeback scheme time limits, they couldnt take that any further for her. Because of the 
restrictions of the chargeback scheme, I think thats reasonable.
Section 75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. JAJA have told Mrs J that they 
havent seen any evidence to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I dont 
necessarily agree with that, but I do think the evidence provided might struggle to satisfy any 
interpretation of misrepresentation. Ill explain why.
The literature Mrs J has provided doesnt confirm any terms and conditions that were agreed 
by her in relation to the event. So, I cant say that a breach of contract has taken place. But I can understand why Mrs J might feel the event was misrepresented to her. She has 
highlighted several pieces of the event literature that she believes leads her to expect that D 
will be present for the whole of the event. And shes clearly expressed her level of 
dissatisfaction that this didnt happen. But expressing a general level of dissatisfaction isnt 
enough to conclude the event was misrepresented  and the information in the literature is, 
in my opinion, open to interpretation. The literature does say that D will be present, but it 
doesnt say at what time or for how long. At the very least it is by no means clear-cut.
What Im considering here is JAJAs liability for a like claim and for me to say its 
reasonable for them to reimburse Mrs J for the total amount, Id have to believe a court 
would tell the supplier to reimburse her. As Ive said above, I dont think this is by any means 
clear-cut from the information Ive reviewed. Its possible that a price reduction could be 
considered, but I cant say that with any certainty. So, it follows that I dont think its fair to 
ask JAJA to give Mrs J a full refund for the event.
JAJA have accepted that Mrs J was given some incorrect information when she initially 
called them to raise a dispute and that an email from her went unanswered. They offered her 
£100 compensation to reflect that which Mrs J refused. But I also think JAJA should have 
communicated their decision better to Mrs J. I think Mrs J had provided evidence to them to 
suggest why she thought the event had been misrepresented to her, and I think JAJA should 
have taken more time in their final response letter to explain their reasoning why they 
wouldnt be taking Mrs Js Section 75 claim any further. Ive asked JAJA to increase their 
offer of compensation by £100, to a total amount of £200. Theyve agreed to this. Based on 
everything that Ive been provided with from both sides I think this is fair in the 
circumstances. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs J as she feels she should be entitled to 
more. I understand her strength of feeling here, but I also have to consider that she attended 
the two-day event and has admitted to getting some benefit from it. I think the increased 
offer from JAJA is fair, and I wont be asking them to increase it. 
My final decision
JAJA FINANCE LTD have made an offer of £200 to settle this complaint. I think thats fair in 
the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that JAJA FINANCE LTD must pay Mrs J £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman