DRN-4415929
The complaint
Mr D complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC unfairly declined his application for a loan. 
Hes also complained they recorded too many hard searches on his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, for 
these reasons:
Its for individual businesses to determine their risk appetite when offering borrowing, 
and this isnt something our service has the power to change. However, we can 
investigate whether a business has treated a consumer in the same way it would 
another customer, with similar circumstances. And if were persuaded it hasnt, we 
could ask them to take steps to put things right. In this case, Tesco has sent us 
evidence that persuades me Mr Ds circumstances didnt meet their lending criteria, 
and that is why his loan application was declined. So, I do consider they treated him 
fairly in that regard. But given the points raised by Mr D, Ive also had to consider 
what was explained to him at the time.
If a loan is declined, our service wouldnt normally say a business is obligated to 
share the specific reasons for declining an application with a customer. Thats 
because this information is commercially sensitive. So, I dont think Tesco treated 
Mr D unfairly by not giving him an explicit reason. I have listened to several phone 
calls between Mr D and Tesco, and Im satisfied they never said or implied his 
application would be approved after the manual appeal was completed. However, I 
do think they gave him somewhat unhelpful information after they carried out a 
manual appeal of his application. Thats because they told Mr D to check his credit 
file, despite them already being aware he was very concerned about incorrect 
information being registered with credit reference agencies. I dont consider telling 
Mr D to do this was particularly helpful in the circumstances  in fact, all it did was 
add to the worry and distress he was already experiencing. Because of this, I do 
think Tesco could have handled things better in respect of this part of his complaint.
Mr D also complained that Tesco incorrectly registered four hard searches on his 
credit report. However, Tesco has said they only registered one. Mr D has provided 
us with a copy of his credit report, and from what Ive seen, I can only see two 
searches. And of those two searches, it appears that only one of them is a hard 
search. Given its not disputed Mr D did apply for a loan, it isnt unusual for a hard 
search to be reported to credit reference agencies. So, I wont be asking Tesco to 
remove that search. Soft searches shouldnt negatively impact Mr Ds credit score, so 
Im not persuaded the searches that are detailed on Mr Ds credit report are unfair. 
Im aware Mr D has said that there were previously another two searches from Tesco 
showing on his credit report. Ive not seen enough evidence from either party to make 
a finding on what was or wasnt showing before this complaint came to our service. 
But as Ive not seen enough evidence to demonstrate any detriment from what has 
been recorded on the credit report  particularly given Mr D was able to get a loan 
elsewhere, I cant fairly ask Tesco to do anything further regarding what is being 
reported to credit reference agencies.
While Im persuaded Tesco are reporting accurate information, I do think Tesco could 
have handled things better when Mr D shared his concerns about his credit report. It 
was clear that Mr D takes his credit score seriously and checks it frequently. He also 
found the situation very distressing, and the advisers who spoke to Mr D ought to 
have been aware of that. So, it was disappointing to hear one of their advisers saying 
they couldnt comment on the matter. They also didnt take sufficient steps to 
reassure Mr D they were taking his concerns seriously  or empathised with his 
concerns. 
Given the above, I consider Tesco should pay Mr D £100 in recognition of the 
distress their mistakes caused. I dont think a higher reward is warranted in this case 
because Tesco issued their final response to Mr Ds complaint just under two weeks 
after he raised his complaint. While I appreciate Mr D has found this matter 
distressing, and disagreed with Tescos final response, I cant ignore the fact they 
took steps to resolve his complaint relatively quickly.
For the reasons explained above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ds complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC.
To put things right, Tesco Personal Finance PLC should pay Mr D £100 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience their mistakes caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman