DRN-2927060
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) have acted in a discriminatry way including 
refusing to reopen a Monzo Plus account, refusing to open a business bank account and 
closing his bank account.
What happened
Mr A held a Monzo Plus account. This account is operated on a subscription basis. Mr A felt 
Monzo were mistreating him in the way they were handling fraudulent transaction disputes 
on his account and says Monzo offered to cancel the subscription for the Monzo Pus 
account free of charge as an apology.
When Mr A contacted Monzo to reinstate the subscription, Monzo declined to do this, and 
didnt give a reason as to why. Mr A also says Monzo have failed to explain why they havent 
dealt with the fraudulent and disputed transactions hes raised with them in the timeframe 
they outline for these types of disputes.
Following this, Mr S also says Monzo refused him a business bank account, and then closed 
is bank account  again without reason.
Mr A complained to Monzo that they have discriminated against him by not giving 
explanations for decisions and actions theyve taken, and the impact this has had on his 
mental health. He wanted them to reinstate his Monzo Plus account and for them to pay him 
compensation for the discrimination. While Monzo empathised with Mr As frustrations, they 
werent able to give any further information other than theyve complied with their internal 
processes, and any decision made wasnt because of his race. So Mr A contacted our 
service for help.
One of our investigators considered Mr As complaint and concluded Monzo had acted fairly 
in the circumstances and didnt think Monzo should pay Mr A any compensation. Mr A 
rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Business bank account application 
A bank can decide who it wants to deal with as a customer. And in this case, although Mr A 
was eligible for a business bank account with Monzo, they werent able to offer him business 
banking facilities. Theyve given Mr A an explanation as to why (they are new to business 
banking and cant offer everyone this facility now), which they dont have to, and Im satisfied 
Monzo processed the application in line with regulations.
Delays in processing disputed transactions 
Monzo have acknowledged the difficulties Mr A had when registering fraudulent transactions 
and offered £25 compensation. Mr A has logged several disputes, and while Monzo indicate 
how long the disputes may take to resolve, each case is different and therefore some may 
take longer than others. And while I appreciate Mr A feels these should have been dealt with 
quicker, I still feel they have been processed within reasonable timeframes.
Cancellation and reinstating of Mr As Monzo Plus subscription 
Mr A says Monzo cancelled his subscription free of charge as an apology for poor service. 
Later Mr A tried to reinstate the subscription as he wanted the protection of that account 
when travelling aboard. But Monzo wouldnt renew the subscription. And Mr As unhappy 
that Monzo havent given a reason why. Mr A says its unfair that Monzo chose to cancel the 
subscription and now wont reinstate it. But as our investigator has said, Monzo have given 
us screen shots of the web chat Mr A had with Monzo asking them to cancel the 
subscription. I know Mr A says that Monzo have purposely not given us a copy of the call 
where they suggest the subscription is cancelled, but I think its more likely than not based 
on the evidence provided, that Mr A chose to cancel the subscription. And Monzo arent 
obliged to reinstate the facility or give explanations as to why they wont do this either.
Closure of account 
Monzo can decide who it wants to deal with as a customer. If they decide to close a 
customers account, they dont have to give a reason. But they must follow the process set 
out in the accounts terms and conditions. Having considered Monzos actions, I think they 
followed the process set out in the account terms and conditions. They gave Mr A two 
months written notification, and this is in line with their processes.
Mr A says he feels Monzo has discriminated against him because of his race given the 
problems hes experienced, and the lack of explanations theyve given him for their actions. 
Mr A also says his partner gets better treatment from Monzo, and his friends get quicker 
responses when they contact Monzo for help.
I can understand why Mr A feels this way, but having looked at all the evidence I dont think 
Monzo have. Nor do I think Monzo has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Mr 
A to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into their concerns.
So for these reasons, although I understand Mr As frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman