DRN-2795843
The complaint
Mrs C complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
her for excess mileage under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In November 2015, Mrs C acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
BMWFS. The total repayable under the agreement was £23,893.69. Mrs C was required to 
make 48 monthly payments of £281.69 and there was a final optional payment of £10,372.21 
if she wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement.
The agreement set out that Mrs C had the right to terminate the agreement at any time 
before the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the 
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement - £11,946.67.
Mrs C asked to terminate the agreement in early April 2019  41 months into the 49 month 
agreement. As she hadnt yet paid at least £11,946.67, BMWFS said she needed to pay 
£679.07. Mrs C made this payment and the car was returned. However, BMWFS later 
charged her a further £257.92 as she had exceeded the mileage allowance on the 
agreement.
The agreement set out that Mrs C had an annual mileage allowance of 8,000 and a total 
mileage allowance of 50,797 (on top of the 18,130 miles that had already accrued before 
she acquired it). It said that if she exceeded this allowance BMWFS could charge her 5.59 
pence for every mile that she exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the event she 
terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the time the 
car was on hire.
Mrs C didnt agree £257.92 was a fair charge. She said that BMWFS had calculated the 
charge incorrectly. Mrs C says she doesnt owe BMWFS anything as her initial mileage was 
incorrectso surely I must have been well inside my mileage allowance. Mrs C wants the 
excess mileage charge to be waived.
BMWFS rejected this complaint. It said the charges for excess mileage were set out in the 
finance agreement Mrs C signed in November 2015. And it said that the voluntary 
termination notice shed signed and returned in April 2019 clearly set out that mileage would 
be pro-rated if the agreement ends early.
BMWFS said that mileage limitation is a fair measure of what would constitute 
"reasonable care of the Vehicle given that it can affect its value upon resale. Exceeding 
the Maximum Total Mileage agreed upon commencement of the Agreement, is likely to have 
caused the Vehicle to have decreased in value more than it otherwise might have done had 
the agreed mileage been adhered to and you should therefore have to compensate us 
accordingly. It said it was confident that it hadnt acted incorrectly and that its charge was an 
accurate reflection of the additional mileage incurred.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained he was satisfied that BMWFS had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly 
in line with the terms of the hire purchase agreement and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). He also found that the terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of 
an excess mileage charge being payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination. 
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable under 
the hire purchase agreement. It does not include charges for items that are payable 
as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mrs Cs agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in 
the total price of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mrs Cs accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount of £257.92.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage 
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
When considering all the terms of the agreement as a whole, he was satisfied it was 
made clear and not misleading about when an excess mileage charge could be 
applied and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was fair and reasonable for 
BMWFS to charge the additional amount.
He also considered what Mrs C had said about the mileage when she returned the car, but 
he concluded that without any evidence to support this, he thought it was likely that BMWFS 
recorded mileage was correct.
Mrs C disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Mrs C took out a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS and exercised her right to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary termination allows the 
hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay anything more. But this is dependent 
on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement, whether there are any arrears to be paid, the condition of the car, and whether any excess mileage or other 
charges are due.
In this case Mrs C accepts that she was required to pay £679.07 to voluntary terminate the 
agreement but its the excess mileage charges that she disputes. Mrs C doesnt appear to 
dispute that a charge for excess mileage is payable, but she feels the way it has been 
calculated is unfair. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The Termination: Your Rights 
section of Mrs Cs hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on 
termination and in her case, that was £11,946.67. Various sections of the agreement Mrs C 
had with BMWFS also referred to the liability on early termination, including where excess 
mileage, damage charges or other charges may increase the final liability.
This is because whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to 
every case, as it will depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In 
other words, what I have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to 
allow the charging for excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA 
regarding voluntary termination? In Mrs Cs specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means is that Mrs C is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these 
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
Mrs C says that it wasnt clear how the excess mileage charges would be calculated if she 
asked to voluntarily terminate the agreement early  so Ive looked very carefully at the hire 
purchase agreement she signed in November 2015.
The first page of Mrs Cs hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage 
Charges for Depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges 
will apply if that mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the 
mileage allowance will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your obligation to 
pay any Excess Mileage Charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied 
Mrs Cs agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue. 
The agreement also has a sectioned headed Termination: Your Rights. This section 
contains specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in 
summary sets out that so long as Mrs C has paid at least half the total amount payable 
under the agreement, she will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this 
conflicts with the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges 
for exceeding the mileage might apply. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is 
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains 
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary 
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mrs C.  Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mrs C is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.
Mrs C also says that the recorded mileage on her car when she first took out the hire 
purchase agreement was incorrect. But shes not been able to provide any evidence to 
support this. And in these situations, I have to look at the evidence I have seen and decide 
what I think is more likely to be the case. In this particular case, Ive been able to look at the 
hire purchase agreement that Mrs C signed in November 2015. And this document records 
the Mileage on delivery as being 18,130 and states that this has been taken into account 
when calculating the maximum total mileage under the terms of Mrs Cs contract.
Next Ive looked carefully at how BMWFS has calculated the excess mileage charge.
The hire purchase agreement states that the maximum annual mileage is 8,000 miles 
(which is 666.67 miles per month).
Mrs C voluntarily terminated her contract after 41 months  so under the contract, 
she was able to drive 27,333 miles.
The documented initial mileage was 18,130. And the end of contract mileage 
recorded by BMWFS was 50,077. So the actual mileage driven by Mrs C was 31,947 
 which was 4,614 miles more than permitted under the agreement.
The agreement states that an excess mileage charge is payable at a rate of 5.59p 
per mile, resulting in a total charge to Mrs C of £257.92 for excess mileage (4,614 
excess miles X 5.59p).
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied the excess mileage charge of £257.92 has 
been calculated in accordance with the terms and conditions and that the charge has not 
been applied unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman