DRN-3031962
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund him after he lost money to a scam. 
What happened
Mr E was on a social media platform where, on an account he followed, he saw an 
investment opportunity. The trade account offered people the opportunity to fill investment 
slots with varying amounts of investment for a same day profit. Mr E says the profile boasted 
of client success and he saw other success stories about the investment and so believed it 
was legitimate. 
As a result Mr E made a number of payments to the investment over the course of about an 
hour on 25 June 2020, as set out in the below table:
15:35 £136
15:52 £500
15.57 £250
16:17 £300
16:21 £320
Total £1,506
After making his trades Mr E asked questions of the trader about when he could expect his 
investment returns. As Mr E didnt receive a response, or any of his funds back, he realised 
he had been scammed. He raised the issue with Barclays the following day. 
Barclays didnt refund Mr E as it said it had provided him with warnings about the 
transactions, but he had decided to proceed. But it did recover £57.56 of his losses which 
were returned to Mr Es account in July 2020.  It also offered Mr E £150 for the delay in 
logging his complaint about this matter. 
After the complaint was brought to us, Barclays made an offer to refund 50% of Mr Es 
losses. But Mr E didnt want to accept that. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as 
she wasnt persuaded Mr E had a reasonable basis for believing he was paying a genuine 
person for genuine goods or services. For that reason she didnt ask Barclays to increase its 
offer. 
Mr E has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He says he was suffering 
with mental health issues at the time which led to him being in a vulnerable place. Mr E has 
confirmed he has no evidence of seeking help with any mental health issues during this time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a payment service provider is expected to 
process payments that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which apply to this complaint, and account terms and conditions. 
But where a customer made a payment as a result of the actions of a scammer, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for a payment service provider to reimburse its customer, 
even though the payment was authorised. 
Under Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), 
which Barclays is a signatory of, it should reimburse customers who are victims of 
authorised push payment scams, except in limited circumstances
In considering this, I have taken account of whether Barclays ought to have reimbursed Mr E 
under the provisions of the CRM, and whether it ought to have done more to protect him 
from potential financial harm from fraud.  The Code also places a level of care on Mr C, and 
so I have considered whether he met this. 
The CRM Code
The CRM requires payment service providers to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams like this, in all but limited circumstances. It 
is for Barclays to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one, 
or more, of the listed exception set out in the CRM. 
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but these arent applicable here. 
Did Mr E have a reasonable basis for belief?
Under the CRM Barclays can choose not to reimburse Mr E if it doesnt believe he took the 
requisite level of case to ensure he had a reasonable basis for belief that the 
person/business he was paying was legitimate and for genuine goods or services. It isnt 
enough for Mr E to believe that he was paying a legitimate person/business for genuine 
goods or services, he had to have a reasonable basis for belief. 
Mr E found the advert for the investment trade business on a social media platform. He 
noted the trader had detailed success stories including the positive returns achieved for 
those taking an investment slot. 
However, I dont think that goes far enough for Mr E to have met the requisite level of care, 
particularly given what was being offered. The trader was suggesting same day investment 
returns of around 14x the original investment. Im not aware of any legitimate investment that 
currently offers such a return over a period of time, let alone same day. The offer here was 
simply too good to be true. The adverts themselves were littered with spelling and grammar 
mistakes and there wasnt any information about where a customers money was actually 
going to be invested.  I have also noted that the trader used language which would be 
considered unprofessional for a legitimate business, referring to Mr E as babe and signing 
off with an x. 
Mr E hasnt provided any evidence to show he carried out any sort of due diligence before 
deciding to send his money. For example, I cant see anything to show he questioned how the trader obtained such high rates of return, where the investment was being made or even 
whether he checked they were authorised or regulated to carry out investment activities. I 
therefore conclude that Mr E didnt take sufficient care such that Im satisfied he had a 
reasonable basis for belief that he was paying for genuine services from a legitimate trader. 
However, under the CRM, Mr E should get 50% of his losses reimbursed even if he didnt 
have a reasonable basis for belief, if Barclays didnt meet its obligations under the code. One 
of those obligations is to give an effective warning  one that is understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific  if it identifies a scam risk in a payment journey. 
The payments Mr E made were largely unremarkable with the largest payment being £500. 
And they were all made to a personal account. So I dont think the first, or even the second 
payment, would necessarily have alerted the bank to possible fraud. But by the time the third 
payment is made, in just over 20 minutes, I think the transactions appear more suspicious 
when viewed overall. When responding to the complaint, Barclays said it provided effective 
warnings. We havent been provided with a copy of the warnings to decide whether they 
were effective in accordance with the CRM (and if it had Mr E wouldnt be entitled to any 
refund).  However, as Barclays has already offered to reimburse 50% of Mr Es losses  the 
same amount I would award if I found any warnings werent effective, it seems to me it has 
already offered what Mr E would be entitled to under the CRM. 
Finally, I note Mr E has told us that at the time he was suffering with poor mental health. We 
asked Mr E more about that. He confirmed he felt pressure to pay back a debt at a time 
when his main source of income was very limited as the entertainment industry was on hold. 
He also confirmed that he doesnt believe he was suffering with a medical condition during 
that time, diagnosed or not, although he now has help for other matters. 
I have considered this carefully, as there is provision within the code for a customer to be 
reimbursed notwithstanding the exceptions, if the customer was vulnerable to APP scams 
and it would not be reasonable to expect them to have protected themselves. I accept that 
Mr E was under pressure because of his debts but Im not persuaded that his situation was 
such that he couldnt have protected himself against the scam he fell victim to. I therefore 
dont set aside the exceptions that apply. 
It follows that I find the offer made by Barclays  to reimburse 50% of Mr Es loss to be fair 
and I dont require it to do anymore. Ive also noted Barclays offered £150 compensation for 
the delays caused when a branch didnt progress matters as it should. I find that to be a fair 
reflection of the impact that caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made a 
fair offer in resolution of this complaint. I require it to:
Pay Mr E £753 (being 50% of the loss) less £57.56 which had already been 
recovered. 
Pay Mr E £150 compensation, as offered, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman