DRN-2867287
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service he has received from The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
(RBS) in relation to an inquiry that RBS made about a payment into his UK current account 
with it.  
What happened
 Mr W has lived in Australia for several years but has maintained a UK account with RBS to 
deal with certain transactions.
RBS contacted Mr W in late December 2020 asking for further information about a payment. 
It asked Mr W to contact it by phone or via its webchat service.
Mr W was unable to use the webchat service and wouldnt call RBS for various reasons. He 
also didnt want RBS to call him, preferring to communicate in writing.
Mr W complained to RBS.
RBS emailed Mr W several times, and then provided some detail about the payment in early 
January in its final response letter. It said Mr W could contact it if he needed more 
information and provided a phone number and a link to its web chat service.
Mr W raised a further complaint and RBS responded in mid-February 2021 providing the full 
name of the payer and the means of payment, which enabled Mr W to identify the payment, 
and email some information about the payment back to RBS.
Mr W has been frustrated by the lack of information initially provided and generally by the 
communication difficulties he encountered. He complained to our service.
Our investigator empathised with Mr Ws frustration but didnt think RBS needed to offer Mr 
W any compensation.
Mr W was unhappy with this, so the case came to me to decide.
As my view was different from the investigators, I issued a provisional decision, which is set 
out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBSs customer contact team emailed Mr W about a payment to his account in late 
December 2020. It had tried to contact him by phone but had been unable to reach him and 
thought the number it held was no longer in use. The email didnt give any additional 
information, so Mr W didnt know why it wanted him to get in touch. I can understand that Mr 
W wouldve liked more information, but the email was sent to encourage Mr W to contact 
RBS regarding a transaction, and I think it was reasonable not to include additional detail as 
the email was essentially a request for Mr W to get in touch, at which point RBS wouldve 
provided the context.
The email asked Mr W to contact RBS by phone or follow a link and use its secure web chat. 
Mr W didnt want to communicate with RBS by phone for a number of reasons, some being a 
matter of personal preference, and others more related to the fact that he lives in Australia, 
for example time differences and costs. I can understand these reasons, but I wouldnt 
reasonably expect RBS to treat Mr W differently to its other customers, so I dont think it 
acted unfairly in calling him or asking him to call or use the web chat.
Mr W tried to use the web chat service, but he says it didnt work. I am unable to speculate 
as to why this was, but RBS say they are not aware of any issues with the service at that 
time, so I cant fairly say that this was RBSs fault.
Mr W complained to RBS about its website, the web chat service, and the lack of a return 
email address on the email asking him to contact RBS. He then received holding emails from 
RBS and was told RBS would respond to his complaint within 15 business days. Mr W 
replied to this email and said that he didnt want RBS to telephone him for a number of 
reasons, as follows:
(1) the time difference of 10 1/2 hours; (2) my mobile is switched off most of the time; (3) 
phones usually ring at an inappropriate moment; (4) I dislike intensely using my mobile; (5) it 
is much easier to discuss complex issues in writing than by telephone.
As Ive said, while I understand these reasons, I dont think RBS had acted unreasonably in 
suggesting the use of the phone or web chat.
Following this, RBSs complaints team responded to Mr W by email in early January within 
the timescale promised, which I think was a prompt response, particularly given the 
intervening Christmas holiday period. However, I can understand that Mr W had been 
frustrated by the emails he received in the meantime.
In its response, RBS gave Mr W the surname of the payer, and the date of the payment, 
which was in June 2020. Mr W didnt recognise the name or the date, and said he needed 
the amount in order to check his bank statement. However, I think that RBS could 
reasonably have expected this information to be enough to help Mr W identify the payment, 
so I dont think it did anything wrong in that respect.
The email also explained that the inquiry had come from the Payment Filtering Unit which is 
responsible for gathering information for regulations and compliance so I can see that the 
request for information was for regulatory reasons, and I wouldnt expect RBS to say 
anything more about this. As such I cant fairly say that RBS did anything wrong in asking for 
information, or in not providing full details of the reason for its request.
Mr W replied with a number of questions about the payment, and after receiving a further 
email asking him to get in touch about the payment, emailed RBS again suggesting they 
respond to his questions by letter, as the emails hed received didnt answer his questions. 
He didnt get a reply to this email, which mustve been frustrating for him.
Mr W complained to our service in mid-January, he wanted more information about the 
payment, and to know why it was queried and by whom. As Ive said, I think RBS had 
already provided a reasonable amount of information about the payment, and why it asked 
for further information.
Mr W also continued contacting RBS and complained again to RBS in mid-February about the lack of information hed had, and that he still hadnt had details of the payment. RBS 
reopened his complaint and this time provided the full name of the payer and the type of 
payment. RBS also apologised for the lack of response to Mr Ws January email to the 
customer service team, which it said was due to illness of the particular member of staff. 
While I understand that staff illness can cause delays, I think another member of staff 
shouldve responded.
After this Mr W identified the payment and sent an email to RBS explaining what he thought 
the circumstances of the payment were. He asked RBS for confirmation of the amount of the 
payment, and whether his email answered the question about the payment. As the complaint 
was now with this service, RBS said that the remaining issues should be resolved through 
our service. While I can understand that this made sense in relation to the complaint, part of 
Mr Ws request was simply for a response to the information hed provided, and I think it 
wouldve been helpful for RBS to provide this at the time.
RBS has now explained what information it is seeking from Mr W, provided the transaction 
amount and further email addresses so that Mr W can communicate directly with the 
Payment Filtering Unit. We have passed these details on to Mr W so that he can now deal 
with this directly with RBS.
Mr W had some additional questions for RBS, to which it has now responded as set out 
below.
Mr W asked why the payment in question was queried six months after the transaction. RBS 
explained that the Payment Filtering Unit receives payments in batches for investigation. 
This process applies to all payments that are reviewed, and RBS didnt treat Mr W differently 
to other customers in following this process, so I cant fairly say that RBS did anything wrong 
here.
Mr W also wanted to know why the payment was queried at all. RBS has explained that 
further information was required for compliance purposes. As I have said earlier, its 
reasonable for RBS to take any necessary steps to meet its regulatory obligations, and I 
dont think it is reasonable to expect RBS to explain this further.
RBS has acknowledged Mr Ws comments about its website. I have to leave RBS to 
consider these, as it is not for this service to comment generally on a businesss processes, 
but to decide whether it has acted fairly in particular circumstances, and I have summarised 
my view on this below.
I dont think RBS did anything wrong in asking for information and asking Mr W to 
communicate through its usual channels. However, I can also see that it didnt always 
communicate well with Mr W. Mr W received a number of emails from different departments, 
which didnt always answer his questions, and some werent answered at all. And it couldve 
provided an email address for the Payment Filtering Unit sooner. I can see that this was 
frustrating for Mr W, and that he found the whole experience stressful. So, I intend to require 
RBS to pay Mr W £50 compensation for this.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint about the way that The 
Royal Bank of Scotland plc dealt with his questions, and I intend to require it to pay Mr W 
£50 for the inconvenience and stress caused by this.
I dont intend to uphold the remainder of Mr Ws complaint.RBS has not provided any comments. Mr W has responded, in summary saying that he 
doesnt feel that my provisional decision takes account of the repeated apologies he 
received, when all he wanted was certain details, the level of frustration he suffered, and the 
anxiety caused by an investigation that he feels was needless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view on Mr Ws complaint but comment below on his response to my 
provisional decision.
I havent commented on all of Mr Ws observations about how RBS wanted to communicate 
with him, and what else it might have done but I have considered everything he said. I 
remain of the view that RBS was entitled to follow its usual processes having regard to 
security considerations. I note that RBS had tried to contact Mr W by phone, and if this had 
been possible, any concerns about using call centres and the cost of a call couldve been 
avoided.   
Mr W has correctly noted that the email from RBS only referred to a payment, rather than 
a payment to his account, and says that the email was disturbing. While I can understand 
that Mr W didnt know exactly what the email was about, it was, simply saying that RBS 
needed some information. I also note that the email asked Mr W to contact RBS at his 
earliest convenience which didnt suggest that the matter was urgent. I remain of the view 
that RBS didnt do anything wrong in sending this email.   
Mr W suggests that the investigation was unnecessary in any event.  RBS has said the 
reason for the request was for compliance reasons, and I have no reason to doubt this so I 
cant agree with Mr W here.   
With regard to the information Mr W wanted RBS to provide, I also remain of the view that 
the information provided in early January, namely the date of the payment and the surname 
of the payer, could reasonably be regarded as enough detail to enable Mr W to identify the 
payment, and was provided without undue delay. For a payment to be made to Mr Ws 
account, the payer wouldve needed Mr Ws account details, so I think it was reasonable to 
expect that Mr W would recognise the payer and be able to establish the circumstances of 
the payment.  
Mr W says he thinks the information that RBS has asked for about the payer of the 
transaction in question is irrelevant. This is not something this service can comment on as it 
is for RBS to determine the information it needs to satisfy its regulatory obligations, so Mr W 
will need to address this directly with RBS.
I have acknowledged Mr Ws frustration regarding his communications with RBS, but as I 
think the request for information was reasonable, and RBS provided enough information in 
its initial response to enable him to identify the payment, and RBS acted reasonably in 
following its usual processes, I am satisfied that the compensation I proposed is fair. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I require The Royal Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr W £50 for the 
frustration caused by its communication shortcomings.  
My final decision My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint.
I require The Royal Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr W £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman