DRN-4333614
The complaint
Miss R complains that when her car was stolen and she submitted a claim to Aioi Nissay 
Dowa Insurance UK Limited trading as Insure the Box (ITB) they voided her policy from 
inception, as they said her car had modifications she hadnt declared. 
She thinks this is unfair as she believed the modifications were factory fitted, and she wants 
them to pay her claim.
What happened
Miss R had insurance for her car with ITB. Shes a young driver and her car was fitted with a 
black box as part of her insurance. In October 2022 Miss Rs car was stolen overnight from 
where shed parked it near to her home. The first Miss R knew of the theft was the following 
morning when the car was missing.
She reported the theft to the police and notified ITB of her claim. A neighbours ring doorbell 
had recorded footage of the theft which they sent to Miss R. The thieves smashed the 
drivers window to gain access to the vehicle. 
There appears to be no dispute that Miss Rs car was stolen. But when ITB were 
investigating her claim they established that the car had been modified and was an Abarth 
replica. And they said that if Miss R had declared the modifications when taking out her 
insurance they wouldnt have provided cover for her vehicle.
Miss R told ITB that the Abarth body kit had been factory fitted. Shed been told this by the 
person she bought the car from. ITB said this wasnt a standard modification and if they were 
going to accept this theyd need her to get confirmation from the manufacturers.
She contacted the vehicles manufacturers, Fiat, who confirmed on 25 October 2022 that the 
kit factory fitted to her car was a Comfort Kit 1. Miss R provided a copy of this confirmation to 
ITB. The Comfort Kit includes automatic air conditioning, a height adjustable drivers seat 
and side mirrors with automatic defrost. Its not an Abarth body kit.
ITB spoke to Fiat who confirmed that Miss Rs car had only been fitted with a Comfort Kit 
and that they dont provide or fit Abarth kits.
As the Abarth body kit hadnt been factory fitted and the car had been modified ITB voided 
Miss Rs policy from inception. And they repaid her the premiums shed paid over the two 
years shed been insured with them. Although she was initially told theyd only be refunding 
one years premium and she had to query this before they refunded all the premiums she 
paid.
Miss R wasnt happy with how ITB had dealt with her claim, or that her policy had been 
voided. This left her without a car and she was concerned that she wouldnt be able to afford 
insurance in the future, as shed have to declare her policy had been cancelled. She said 
that photographs were taken of her car when her black box was fitted. So ITB had been 
aware of the modifications to her car and should have raised their concerns then, rather than 
waiting until she had to make a claim.
ITB raised a complaint on her behalf, but this wasnt upheld in relation to the voidance of her 
policy. In their final response letter they said that their investigations had confirmed that the 
Abarth body kit wasnt a standard factory fitted modification to Miss Rs car. Although they 
accepted she hadnt modified the car, they said that had she declared the modifications 
when taking out her policy they wouldnt have offered her cover. 
They said theyd considered what shed told them and were treating her failure to declare the 
modifications as a careless misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). So they were voiding her policy from inception and 
would be refunding all the premiums shes paid during the time shed been insured with 
them.
They acknowledged that their engineer could have identified the modifications when the 
black box was fitted. But said this didnt change that had she declared these when 
purchasing the policy, no cover would have been offered, so they said theyd acted correctly 
in voiding her policy.
Miss R had made a Subject Access Request (SAR) for all the information ITB held in relation 
to her claim. When responding to this request theyd included information relating to another 
policyholder. When Miss R advised them of this ITB had asked her to delete this information 
and shed told them she had no intention of doing this. 
So the final response letter also refers to her obligations under the Data Protection Act 2018 
as the recipient of information not intended for her. But as shed been sent wrong information 
this part of her complaint was upheld and ITB offered £150 for the poor service theyd 
provided.
Miss R wasnt happy with ITBs response and complained to our service.
Our investigator spoke to Miss R who confirmed that she now accepted that her car had 
been modified, and that these modifications werent factory fitted. But she said shed asked 
the seller if the car had been modified and he told her it hadnt. And she said she wouldnt 
have bought the car if shed known it had been modified as she knew insurance would have 
been more expensive.
Our investigator asked ITB to provide details of the questions Miss R would have been 
asked when taking out her policy. They told him that she was asked the following question: -
Has your car been modified (other than by the manufacturer, or for disabled use)?
 And she answered No to this question.
Our investigator was satisfied that the Abarth body kit was fitted to Miss Rs car after 
manufacture. So he was satisfied Miss R made a misrepresentation as she gave incorrect 
information to ITB when she applied for her policy and when her policy was renewed. 
But he said he needed to decide if this was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
The test for whether Miss R took reasonable care when answering the questions she was 
asked is set out in CIDRA. The standard of care required is that of a reasonable consumer. 
So our investigator said he needed to consider what a reasonable consumer would have 
done in the circumstances, rather than getting too focused on why Miss R made the 
misrepresentation.He said Miss R had told us she was 18 when she bought the car, and she didnt know much 
about cars. Shed told us she was looking for a practical car that looked good and was fairly 
new. Shed asked the seller if theyd made any modifications and theyd told her theyd 
bought it new and the Abarth body kit was already fitted. And she said she had no reason to 
question this.
Her boyfriend had managed to contact the seller to ask if the Abarth body kit was factory 
fitted and hed replied on 24 October 2022 saying that it was.
Our investigator felt this supported what Miss R had been saying. And having listened to the 
calls between her and ITB he felt shed been consistent in the responses shed given, and 
shed not tried to hide that the car had been fitted with an Abarth body kit. 
Miss R has said that she thinks the engineer who fitted her black box should have notified 
ITB of the modifications, but our investigator didnt agree. He said it was the engineers role 
to fit the tracker, not to report on the cars condition. And he didnt think ITB would 
necessarily have looked at the photos, as their main purpose was to provide supporting 
evidence that a tracker had been fitted, should this be needed.
But he did think that the photos supported that Miss R bought the car with the Abarth body 
kit already fitted. And as Miss R knew the engineer had taken photos, if she knew the car 
had been modified after manufacture, he felt it was reasonable to say that she would have 
appreciated that the engineer might report the modifications, or theyd have been noticed by 
ITB. So he thought it likely shed have notified them of the modifications if she hadnt thought 
they were factory fitted at the time of manufacture. 
Our investigator said that the Abarth body kit adds some extra trim to the car. Its not a full 
Abarth conversion. So there was no second exhaust fitted, or enhancements to the engine 
performance. Based on the photos hed seen our investigator felt the modifications were 
minor and not instantly recognisable. He didnt think they reflected a clear and obvious 
modification which should have led Miss R to question whether they were fitted at the point 
of manufacture or not.
So he felt Miss R took a reasonable level of care when taking out her policy. He was 
satisfied that when she answered no to the question had her car been modified, she 
believed this information was correct.
As our Investigator believed Miss R had taken reasonable case, this meant that under 
CIDRA there had been no qualifying misrepresentation. So he didnt believe ITB had acted 
fairly when they voided her policy.
Our investigator also considered the level of customer service ITB had provided to Miss R. 
He felt this had been poor and this had included sending her a renewal statement for 
another policyholder. Sending Miss R this document was a data protection breach, so he 
confirmed that wed destroyed all record of the document. ITB had asked Miss R to confirm 
shed destroyed the document and shes now told us that shes done this. And our 
investigator said its not our role to punish or fine ITB for their error, as thats the role of the 
Information Commission Office (ICO).
Miss R had reported the theft of her car on 3 October 2022. ITB sent her a letter on 24 
October 2022 to confirm that their engineer had provided a valuation of £7,925 for her car. 
Then on 4 November 2022 they wrote to her confirming her policy had been voided. 
So our investigator was satisfied that ITB had progressed her claim in a timely manner. But 
he felt they could have acted on information they received more quickly and could have been more proactive in contacting her during the complaint process, rather than waiting for her to 
contact them.
Having said that it wasnt fair for Miss Rs policy to have been voided, our investigator 
recommended that ITB do the following: -
Reinstate Miss Rs policy.
Process her claim on the basis that her car was insured according to the policy 
wording.
Miss Rs car had been valued at £7,925. From this he said it was fair for ITB to 
deduct the refunded premiums (of £445.46 and £766.37), her policy excess of £650, 
any outstanding instalments for the policy year 2021/22 and any outstanding 
finance.
He thought ITB were able to pay Miss Rs claim from 4 November 2022. And as 
shed been deprived of those funds since then, he said they needed to calculate 
interest, at 8% simple, on the net claim settlement from this date to the date of 
settlement and pay this to Miss R.
Amend any records (including the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE)) to 
reflect that Miss Rs policy wasnt cancelled or voided. But it would be fair for the 
claim and outcome to then be registered. And ITB must let Miss R know if they do 
this. He said its likely this will be recorded as a fault claim. Not because Miss R was 
at fault but because its unlikely ITB will be able to recover their costs. And Miss R 
will need to inform any new insurance provider of any change to how the claim is 
recorded. And she should be aware that this could lead to her needing to pay a 
higher premium.
Pay Miss R the £150 they offered in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
she experienced in relation to this matter.
Miss R accepted our investigators opinion but ITB didnt. Theyve said the following: -
Photos taken of Miss Rs car on 7 January 2021 show that its a Fiat Abarth 595 
replica with the following modifications  Abarth bodykit, Abarth alloys and hubcaps, 
Abarth/Scorpion front and rear badges, Abarth 595 side badges on the rear side 
panels, Abarth double exhaust, Abarth spoiler and Abarth seat.
Theyve provided a link to a video clip Miss R posted online in which she refers to the 
car having a loud exhaust. And to the police approaching her shortly after she 
bought the car because it was an Abarth replica and these are often stolen.
When she took out her policy, and at renewal, Miss R was asked if her car had been 
modified. And her Statement of Fact reminded her that the consequences of giving 
inaccurate or incorrect information could be her insurance being invalid.
In his view our investigator refers to an Abarth basket, but for accuracy this should be 
an Abarth body kit.
Miss R was aware of the modifications as she told them in an email dated 20 October 
2022 that when she set up the insurance she enquired about whether modifications 
would make a difference to her insurance and she was told they wouldnt. But the 
policy was set up online so theres no record of any conversation.Miss R was made aware by the police a year before she took out her policy with 
them that her car was an Abarth replica and was aware that it was modified because 
she thought shed discussed this with them.
If theres any doubt that the messages Miss Rs boyfriend received were from the 
seller, they say these should be disregarded.
They dont accept that the car only had a Abarth bodykit fitted as our investigator has 
stated. They say that minus the engine, its had a full Abarth conversion. And they 
dont agree that the changes made are minor, they say they significantly alter the 
appearance of the car.
They dont accept that Miss R took reasonable care when she answered the question 
she was asked about modifications to her car. They say she was aware the car had 
an Abarth kit fitted at inception and renewal and later referred to the car as being an 
Abarth replica.
Miss R has provided some photos of the car which show the modifications including a 
double exhaust.
ITB have provided copies of photos of an unmodified Fiat 500 as manufactured and details 
of the original vehicle specifications provided to Miss R by Fiat. 
The case then came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 8 August 
2023. And in it I said: -
From her conversations with our investigator it appears that Miss R now agrees that her car 
was modified after it was manufactured. Even if she didnt agree, Id have to say that its 
clear that it was, as Fiat have confirmed that they dont supply or fit Abarth body kits. And the 
car was only factory fitted with a Comfort Kit 1.
By Miss Rs own admission, she asked the seller at the point of purchase if the car had been 
modified. This suggests she knew it would make some difference if it had been. It also 
suggests that there was something about the appearance of the car which made her think it 
had been modified. She says the seller confirmed the car had been modified, but that the 
modifications were all factory fitted. 
I dont think the message Miss Rs boyfriend received from the person who sold her the car, 
adds anything to the case. I accept her evidence that the seller told her the modifications to 
the car were factory fitted. The issue I need to consider, based on all the evidence, is 
whether it was reasonable for her to accept this without making further enquiries.
Miss R knew that the car was fitted with an Abarth body kit (she calls it an Abarth basket). 
During one of the calls to ITB after she reported the car as stolen, she confirms the car had 
been modified and she bought it with an Abarth basket. She was asked to provide evidence 
that the kit had been factory fitted, as ITB told her theyd not heard of an Abarth body kit 
being a standard factory fit.
When Miss R contacted Fiat they confirmed that the car was fitted with a Comfort Kit 1. She 
provided the specifications Fiat sent her to ITB and seems to have thought this confirmed 
the modifications were factory fitted. Its unclear why, as the details provided by Fiat make 
no reference to an Abarth body kit. Fiat subsequently confirmed to ITB that they dont supply 
or fit Abarth body kits.
Miss R has told us when she bought the car she was 18, it was her first car and she wanted something that looked good and was fairly new so it would be reliable. Weve not seen a 
copy of the advert Miss R responded to when she bought the car. But we do now have a 
copy of a video she uploaded online. In this she refers to her car having a loud exhaust and 
to the police approaching her shortly after she bought the car, to check she owned it, as they 
said Abarth replicas were often stolen. She also refers to girls loving Fiat 500s.
Her conversation with the police appears to have taken place about a year before she 
insured the car with ITB. And from what she said about girls loving Fiat 500s I think its 
reasonable to assume she was familiar with the cars and what they looked like. She certainly 
knew enough about them to ask the seller if the car had been modified.
Comparing the photographs Miss R has sent us of her car, with those of a standard Fiat 500 
ITB have provided, I think there are obvious modifications. These include the double 
exhaust, the rear and side Abarth badges (we dont have images of the front of the car) and 
the Abarth alloy wheels and hub caps. So I dont agree with our investigator about the 
modifications being minor. And he was wrong when he said the car didnt have a double 
exhaust.
ITB say the car also had also been fitted with Abarth spoilers and an Abarth seat. These 
modifications arent so obvious from the photographs Ive seen. But I accept ITBs view that 
save for the engine, the car had been modified so it was an Abarth replica.
Although Miss R may have thought her car had factory modifications when she first bought 
it, when the police spoke to her about the car, she was made aware that the car was an 
Abarth replica. Even if curiosity didnt at the time mean that she searched for further 
information about this, I think it would have been reasonable to expect her to make enquiries 
before she insured the car. Especially given that its so easy to find information online. And a 
simple search would have given her enough information to question whether the 
modifications made to her car were factory fitted.
So I dont think Miss R took reasonable care when she answered No to the question she 
was asked about her car having been modified. And as ITB have provided evidence that 
they wouldnt have insured the car if theyd been made aware of the modifications, Im 
persuaded that she made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
I think it was reasonable for ITB to treat this as careless misrepresentation. This gave them 
the remedy of voiding her policy from inception and returning her insurance premiums which 
theyve done.
While I accept that photographs of the car were taken when Miss Rs black box was fitted, 
the engineers job was simply to fit this, and I wouldnt have expected him to report back on 
any vehicle modifications hed seen. The car had been accepted on cover and it wasnt the 
engineers job to question this. And I also wouldnt have expected ITB to inspect the 
photographs looking for modifications. They were simply a record of the box being fitted if 
this was later required.
ITB sent Miss R someone elses policy information in response to her SAR request and I 
think the £150 they offered her for this seems reasonable. Although its not our role to 
consider data breaches. It wasnt Miss Rs data that was compromised but if she wishes to 
pursue this she can contact the ICO.
Ive said that I believe Miss R made a qualifying misrepresentation when she took out her 
policy with ITB. Theyve treated this as a careless misrepresentation and as theyve 
refunded her policy premiums I wont be asking them to do anything further.So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Since I issued by provisional decision Miss R has provided her comments for me to consider 
and two brief extracts from calls, one made by her boyfriend and the other by ITB. Ive 
summarised the points shes made below, but if Ive not referred to everything shes said, 
Ive read and considered all shes said.
Miss R has said that ITB have an awful reputation for lack of customer service and care. To 
illustrate this shes provided screenshots of comments made by other customers of ITB 
about how their claims have been dealt with. 
Shes said that both I and ITB have said shes lied about the modifications to her car and 
that she did this to pay less for her insurance. Which she says simply isnt the case and if 
ITB offered insurance for modified cars, shed be happy to pay any additional premium. She 
also says that any reasonable customer knows that lying to their insurers would leave them 
uninsured and at risk of being in thousands of pounds of debt if they were involved in an 
accident. So she just wouldnt have taken this risk.
She says Ive misconstrued how shes described her car and Ive taken her words out of 
context to fit with the view that she lied on her policy. She says shes never admitted that her 
car was modified. Shes never used the term Arbarth Basket, although she accepts that 
when she called to report the theft she referred to the car as a Arbarth replica, as she didnt 
know how else to describe it. But just because its a Fiat with some badges on it doesnt 
mean its modified, and shes confused about how this can be used as evidence against her.
She accepts that she knows what a Fiat looks like, but says her argument is that because 
hers had some differences to a regular Fiat, doesnt mean that these differences were 
modifications, or that they needed to be declared. And the fact she knows what a Fiat 500 
looks like and could see her car differed, is the reason she asked the seller about whether it 
was factory standard. She doesnt see what else she could have done and says theres no 
reason why she would have disbelieved him.
Miss R says that Ive said that there was something about the car which suggested it had 
been modified. And Ive said she should have taken more care and made more enquiries. 
But she says she did this and asked at the point of sale if the car was factory standard. 
Which she says Im now using to say that she knew the car had been modified. She says 
this isnt the case. She says she could see the car didnt look like a regular Fiat, and that she 
obviously knows what one looks like. She didnt know if the badges etc were factory 
standard, so she was checking with the seller so she could insure it correctly. She says that 
just because the car didnt look like a regular Fiat, it doesnt mean that the differences were 
modifications. So she says she asked the questions she should have.
She also says she doesnt understand why Ive set out the consequences of 
misrepresentation when she was renewing her policy. She believed she was telling the truth 
so there was nothing for her to declare.
Miss R doesnt agree with my comment that the seller telling her boyfriend three years after 
she bought the car that the car was a factory standard model isnt relevant. She believes this 
confirms that she was telling the truth about what he told her.
In respect of her conversation with the police about her car, she says they didnt tell her the 
car was an Arbath Replica. They simply questioned the modifications and as the seller had 
told her, she told them the car wasnt modified, it was factory standard. They were 
questioning her ownership of the car as they said theyre often stolen. And she says they 
couldnt make her aware that the car was a Arbarth Replica, as they were police officers, not car experts or engineers.
She says that after the conversation with the police she spoke to her then insurers, to check 
she was insured correctly, and was told her policy was fine and there were no modifications 
to declare. So she did what was needed to ensure her car was correctly insured, and she 
doesnt understand how I can agree theres been a careless misrepresentation.
Shes provided an extract from a call she says her father made to the insurers. In this call he 
says that the car is as it came out of the factory and is told Thats not a modification then. 
She says they told the insurers all they knew and this shows she made all the necessary 
enquiries so she cant have made a careless misrepresentation.
In respect of the Comfort Kit 1 Fiat confirmed had been fitted to the car, Id commented that 
Miss R seems to have thought this confirmed that all the modifications were factory fitted. 
Shes says this is what she thought, and this was entirely reasonable, as she had no idea 
what a Comfort Kit 1 was, and neither did the engineers from ITB. And she says an 18- or 
19-year-old girl couldnt be expected to know what this kit was. Shes provided an extract of 
a call ITB made to Fiat asking them what the Comfort Kit 1 consisted of.
Miss R says that she cant recall telling us that she accepted her car had non-factory fitted 
modifications. 
In respect of the data breach she says she only wanted to keep the information she was sent 
as evidence of the data breach during her complaint. But she deleted it straight away after 
this. And shes never received the £150 compensation ITB were supposed to send her.
Shes said she believes she made all the necessary enquiries she could and its unfair for 
me to say she should have done anything more. And shes provided more information about 
the impact this claim has had on her and the stress and anxiety this has caused her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all Miss R has said about the impact this claim has had on her and Ive 
listened to the extracts of the calls shes sent. Shes told us that she relied on the information 
given to her when she bought the car that any modifications were factory fitted. And that 
three years on from when she bought the car, the seller when contacted still said that the 
modifications were factory fitted.
Shes made much of the fact that she was young when she bought the car and didnt have 
much knowledge about cars in general. But shes said she liked Fiat 500s and that she knew 
what these looked like. From the photographs she provided the car looks very different to a 
standard unmodified Fiat 500. The most obvious difference being the double exhaust, but it 
also has the Abarth badges on the rear and sides, and I assume also of the front, although I 
cant confirm this as she hasnt been able to provide a photograph of the front of the car. The 
car also had Abarth spoilers and a drivers seat.
While Miss R says she made all the enquiries she could I dont think thats entirely correct. 
Her conversation with the police took place after shed bought the car and some time before 
she insured it with ITB. And I think that even if before this conversation she wasnt aware 
that her car wasnt a standard model, she was put on notice at that point that it wasnt. She 
says that are father called her then insurers who confirmed that there were no modifications 
she needed to declared.The extract of the call her father made is very brief and he states that all the modifications 
were factory fitted. He is told that on that basis there are no modifications to declare. But he 
made no mention of the car being an Abarth or an Abarth Replica. If he had he might have 
been given different information, as we know that Fiat have confirmed that they dont factory 
fit Abarth modifications. While Miss R has said the police arent car experts, they recognised 
the car as an Abarth, this was the reason they spoke to her. And yet this isnt mentioned in 
her fathers conversation with the insurers.
I accept what Miss R has said about ITB not being aware of what the Comfort Kit 1 which 
had been factory fitted to her car consisted of. But this doesnt alter the fact that there had 
been modifications done after this. 
Miss R has said that she doesnt recall saying that she accepted her car had non factory 
fitted modifications. Our records show that she spoke to our investigator on 15 May 2023 
and during that conversation said she now agreed that her car had been modified and these 
modifications werent factory fitted.
When she took out her policy with ITB Miss R was entering into an insurance contract with 
them. She cant simply rely on what the seller told her, if theres information available to her 
which suggests that this wasnt correct. And I think there was enough information available 
to her to make her question whether the modifications to her car had been factory fitted.
In the extract of the call Miss Rs boyfriend had with the seller, he simply asked if the 
modifications were factory fitted. Theres no reference to Abarth modifications, even though 
at this time Miss R knew, or ought to have known, that the car was a Fiat Abarth.  
Miss R says that Ive said she lied to get cheaper insurance and she wouldnt have done 
this, as she knew the potential consequences of not having valid insurance. This isnt 
correct. What Ive said is that Miss R was entering into an insurance contract and CIDRA 
says she needed to take reasonable care in answering the questions ITB asked. And based 
on the evidence Id considered, for the reasons Ive given, when she answered no to the 
question whether her car had been modified I dont think she took reasonable case.
Ive considered what Miss R has said about ITBs reputation and the comments shes found 
about them and the level of customer service they provide. But Im looking at this case 
based on the facts of the case and the available evidence, not on other peoples opinions of 
ITB.
I understand the impact that this case has had on Miss R and I appreciate how difficult this 
has been for her, particularly as this was her first car. But she made a qualifying 
misrepresentation when she took out her policy with ITB. Theyve treated this as a careless 
misrepresentation, which I think is fair, and as theyve refunded her policy premiums I wont 
be asking them to do anything further.
Miss R has said shes not received the compensation ITB offered her in respect of the data 
breach on her case. Its not acceptable that this hasnt been paid and Ive asked our 
investigator to contact ITB to tell them to contact her to make arrangements to make this 
payment to her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Miss Rs complaint about Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited trading as Insure 
the Box.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman