DRN-3541172
The complaint
Mr P complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A.s (Mapfre) declined his travel insurance claim. My references to Mapfre include its 
agents.
What happened
Mr P had a single trip travel insurance policy, insured by Mapfre. He was due to travel 
abroad from 18 to 25 March 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared covid-19 to be 
a pandemic. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO 
 formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential 
travel abroad. 
Due to the pandemic Mr Ps flights were cancelled. Mr P contacted the hotel abroad to ask 
about his options  whether the hotel would refund the cost, or move the booking to a later 
date, or whether hed lose the booking and money. The hotel said it had cancelled the 
original booking and it would hold his payment as credit towards another date within six 
months of his original booking but it may extend that period. Mr P didnt accept the hotels 
offer and made a claim on his credit card, which was declined. So he claimed on his travel 
insurance.
Mapfre declined the claim. It said the hotels rebooking offer meant Mr P had no financial 
loss so there was no cover for the hotel cost under the policy terms. In Mapfres final 
response letter dated 23 March 2021 it said if Mr P provided evidence that the hotel wouldnt 
extend the period for the offer it would then consider the hotel costs to be an irrecoverable 
loss and would reconsider the claim.
Mr P complained to us. He said the hotel was originally booked for a holiday with friends and 
as they had received refunds they didnt intend to return to the location so the hotels 
rebooking offer was of no use to him. He wants Mapfre to pay his hotel costs.
Our investigator asked Mr P to contact the hotel to ask if it would be willing to extend the 
rebooking offer. Mr P said the hotel had suggested extending the offer, but that was of no 
use to him. Our investigator said on the information he had Mapfre had acted fairly.
Mr P then said hed contacted the hotel by phone and email to ask if it would extend the offer 
of rebooking and the hotel hadnt responded. Our investigator suggested Mr P send copies 
of his emails to the hotel so that Mapfre had evidence that hed tried to contact the hotel. In 
response Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and insurance industry guidance say that Mapfre must handle claims 
promptly and fairly, and it mustnt reject a claim unreasonably. On the evidence I have I find 
that Mapfre has reasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the policy set out Mr Ps contract of insurance with Mapfre. 
Insurers can decide what risks they want to insure and I need to consider what Mr Ps policy 
says about his cover.
The policy says:
Cancelling and cutting short your holiday
What you are covered for
travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to pay under 
a contract and which you cannot get back.
The policy is clear Mapfre only provides cover for accommodation costs arising from a 
cancellation if those costs arent recoverable elsewhere. When Mr P claimed on his travel 
insurance the hotel had in effect offered Mr P a credit voucher to rebook the accommodation 
at a later date. So when Mr P claimed Mapfre reasonably considered he had no 
irrecoverable loss so there was no cover for the hotel costs under the policy terms. 
In some circumstances we might conclude that its fair and reasonable for an insurer to pay 
a claim for accommodation costs where the consumer has been offered a credit voucher but 
were satisfied that the terms of the credit voucher were so restrictive that it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable to expect the consumer to accept it.
Mr P says he wouldnt accept the credit voucher from the hotel as he had no reason to 
rebook as the friends hed been due to stay with at the hotel had been refunded their hotel 
costs. I understand Mr Ps point and accept that the purpose of any rebooked trip may be 
different from the original, but that itself doesnt mean the terms of the credit voucher were 
so restrictive that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to expect Mr P to accept it. 
The only limitation on the hotels offer for rebooking was the six months period, which has 
now expired. But in the hotels March 2020 letter to Mr P it said it may extend that six months 
period. And weve found that on many occasions hotels have been willing to extend the 
period for rebooking offers. So Mapfre fairly asked Mr P to provide evidence from the hotel 
that it wouldnt extend the offer period before it would reconsider the claim, as there appears 
to be a good chance the hotel would extend meaning Mr Ps costs still wouldnt be covered 
by the policy.
Mr P hasnt provided evidence from the hotel that it wouldnt extend the offer. He now says 
hes tried to contact the hotel without success. But Ive seen no evidence that he has tried to 
contact the hotel. So Ive no evidence to even say its more likely than not that the hotel 
wouldnt extend the rebooking offer period.
On the evidence I have Im satisfied Mapfre has acted reasonably in not paying the claim on 
the basis that Mr P has no irrecoverable loss. 
If Mr P can provide Mapfre with evidence from the hotel that it wont extend the rebooking 
offer period or evidence that he has made a reasonable number of requests to the hotel for 
that information, and its failed to respond, it would be reasonable for Mapfre to reconsider 
the claim, as it said it would do. If Mr P can provide that evidence he should contact Mapfre 
direct.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman