DRN-2480267
The complaint
The liquidators of company L and W complain that L and Ws application to switch its 
business account from Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) to another provider (A) was 
declined because of inaccurate information RBS gave to A. 
With the liquidators consent, Mr N, a director of the company has brought the complaint on 
their behalf.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties. So, I wont repeat them in 
detail here. 
Briefly, in January 2020, L and W applied to A to open a new business account, after which 
L and W had intended transferring its business from RBS to A. This application was made as 
part of an incentive scheme offered by RBS called Business Banking Switch.  But L and Ws 
application was declined. 
Mr N thinks this was because the information regarding L and Ws turnover which RBS gave 
to A was not only different from the information hed provided, but it was also wrong. Mr N 
thinks that led A to conclude hed provided fraudulent information and, so L and Ws 
application was rejected and the incentive bonus of approximately £1,300 it would have 
received was lost. 
Mr N complained to RBS. But RBS didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said that 
the turnover information theyd given to A was both correct and in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the Business Banking Switch. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it should be 
upheld. Although she accepted the turnover information that RBS and Mr N provided to A 
didnt match, nonetheless, she didnt think RBS had done anything wrong. The investigator 
concluded that having confirmed to A the relevant band within which L and Ws turnover fell 
for the period 31 October 2017 to 1 November 2018, RBS did what was required of them.  
Mr N didnt accept the investigators conclusion. He still felt that RBS made an error when 
confirming L and Ws turnover to A and that ultimately the decline of L and Ws application 
and loss of the incentive bonus resulted from that error. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so Im in agreement with the conclusion reached by the investigator and Ill 
explain why.
It isnt disputed Mr N gave different turnover information to A compared to that which RBS 
provided.  Mr N has told us that when completing the application for L and W he entered a 
turnover figure of £150,000. He says the application form A provided didnt indicate that the 
turnover had to be for a specific year and so he included the amount that L and W held with 
RBS at the time of the application.  
RBS on the other hand have said the information they gave to A was the band within which L 
and Ws turnover fell. In other words, Band 1 for the period 31 October 2017 to 1 November 
2018. 
The crux of L and Ws case is that this information was wrong, and RBSs error caused L 
and Ws application to be rejected and ultimately led to the loss of the incentive.  
Mr N has told our investigator that A told him L and Ws application was rejected because of 
the mis-match in the information provided by L and W and RBS. Although I have no 
independent evidence indicating that was indeed the reason, it seems to me likely that the 
different turnover information A was given could have been a contributory factor.  
When giving information to the new provider as part of the business banking switch 
programme, RBS had a duty to ensure the information they were providing was correct. 
Ive looked at the Terms and Conditions of the Business Banking Switch which RBS have 
said they complied with when confirming L and Ws turnover information to A. Ive noted that 
the terms and conditions explain how the figure is to be arrived at and over what period.  
Turnover
CL140. Over what period is my turnover calculated?
Turnover is based on 12 months credit transactions going through a customers business 
current account over a 12-month period up to:
31st October 2018 for customers who have been eligible for the scheme since launch 
in February 2019.
31st December 2019 for customers that are eligible for the scheme from 25 August 
2020
A customers turnover is calculated by taking the annual aggregate credit turnover within 
their business current account excluding: (my emphasis)
a) any turnover between the accounts of a customer; 
b) any monies held by a customer on behalf of that customers clients or for the benefit 
of third parties
L and Ws application was made in January 2020. Mr N has told us L and W had received a 
number of e-mails before that inviting it to switch. And Mr N says he was aware the 
application window was set to close towards the end of January 2020. That means L and W 
was eligible for the scheme before August 2020. So, according to the terms and conditions, 
L and Ws turnover therefore, needed to be calculated for the 12 months up to 31 October 
2018. 
RBS have provided us with L and Ws account statements and have explained that when 
they calculated its turnover, they based it on credits to its Business Current Account as they 
were required to do. 
They explained, however, that the majority of the funds that were credited to L and Ws 
Business Current Account have been internal transfers from its Business Reserve Account 
which therefore didnt form part of the turnover calculation. And the position was much the 
same in relation to L and Ws Business Reserve Account. In other words, during the relevant 
12-month period credits into that account were from L and Ws Business Current Account.Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied RBS calculated L and Ws turnover in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the Business Banking Switch. It so happened 
that, the majority of the funds that were credited to L and Ws Business Current Account 
during the 12-month period in question had been internal transfers between L and Ws 
accounts with RBS. That meant the actual band within which L and Ws turnover figures fell 
ended up being less than figure Mr N included when submitting L and Ws application to A. 
However, it appears that Mr N had not only used the figure up to January 2020 but had also 
included the internal transfers which should be excluded in arriving at the band as per the 
terms and conditions of the incentive scheme. 
RBS have referred me to the relevant incentive bands within which different turnovers fell. 
Having considered the table I am satisfied that L and Ws turnover, calculated as I have 
explained above fell within Band 1. So, like the investigator Im unable to conclude RBS 
have done anything wrong.
Indeed, it seems to me the incentive associated with Band 1 was in line with Mr Ns 
expectation of the amount L and W was likely to receive had its application been successful. 
A turnover of £150,000 would have meant L and W receiving an incentive substantially more 
than had been expected.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L and W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman