DRN-2818880
The complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information provided by Mr M and PDL here is a brief loan table.
Loan Approved Amount Highest repayment 
sum (rounded)repaid
1 31 May 2018 £300 £148 1 November
2018
2 1 November
2018£500 £195 16 May 2019
3 16 May 2019 £250 £137 28 November
2019
4 28 November
2019£420 £157 11 June 2020
PDL sent its final response letter (FRL) in September 2020 in which it did not uphold Mr Ms
complaint but had offered a goodwill gesture of a £25 voucher for either a well-known
supermarket or an on-line shop. Ive no confirmation that the £25 voucher was accepted so
I am assuming it was not. Mr M referred his complaint to us in October 2020.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Mr M had become reliant
on PDLs credit by the time he applied for loan 4. PDL disagreed and the complaint was
passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 28 April 2021 in which I gave 
reasons as to why I planned not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Both parties had until 
12 May 2021 to respond with any additional documents, comments or evidence. PDL has 
replied to say that it has nothing else to add. And Mr M has not responded. 
My provisional findings are set out in the main body of the decision below and form part of 
this final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could include several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But 
certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. As I explain below  I do not think that 
point was reached with Mr M and hence the reason I have come to a different outcome to 
that of our adjudicator.
PDL was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
r will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further in order 
to do that.
My provisional findings dated 28 April 2021
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
PDL has sent us a file prepared for this Service for Mr Ms complaint investigation. This and the FRL 
sent to Mr M include details of Mr Ms income and expenditure declared by him when he applied. His 
net monthly income ranged between £1,193.00 and £1,317.00. His expenditure was noted as being:
Mortgage/Rent - £325.00  Electricity, Gas and Water - £50.00  Food and Travel - £230.00
 Telecommunications - £30.00  Council Tax - £75.00  Other Loans - £101.00  Other
regular outgoings - £69.00. 
These add up to £880 and are the figures for loans 3 and 4. The expenditure figures for loans 1 and 2 
are a little less and come to £753 and £779.
PDLs file sent to us include copies of the agreements, a copy of the FRL and a brief summary of the 
credit search results PDL has said it carried out before each loan. The PDL credit search results 
summary boxes show nothing to give it concern.
Mr Ms complaint form to this Service says that PDL allowed him to take out the unaffordable loans. 
Mr M also says that its FRL contained false information in regards income and expenditure. And he 
has suggested that the FRL did not cover all the loans he had with them.Since receiving our adjudicators letter of opinion Mr M has not replied. Our adjudicator set out the 
number of loans and the information on which she based her opinion and Mr M has not disagreed 
with these points. So, I am proceeding on the basis that the four loans listed are the ones that PDL 
approved for Mr M. And Mr M has not explained what he means by false information.
Mr M has sent to us a series of screenshots showing what seems to be a score relating to his credit 
record. None of them have Mr Ms name on them and so I cannot be sure that they are a credit score 
account for him. And in any event, many of these screenshots are dated 2020 and are not relevant 
when considering the creditworthiness assessments carried out at the loan approval dates. So, I am 
not using those dated 2020. 
Most of those screenshots which might be relevant are around autumn 2019 and none date from an 
earlier part of the lending history. So, these score screenshots are of limited value as they give no 
detail and are for a short period.
I agree with our adjudicator that loans 1 to 3 are not ones where I would consider PDL to have lent 
irresponsibly. It used the information provided to it by Mr M and carried out some checks 
proportionate to the relatively modest loan applications. Loan 2 was a little higher than loan 1 and 
loan 3 was half the value of loan 2. All were repaid on time and I agree with PDL that there did not 
appear to be any reason for concern when considering the repayment pattern. At that stage of the 
lending relationship for loans 1 to 3, and for those amounts it would be disproportionate to expect PDL 
to have done more.
Loan 4 was for a relatively modest sum, £420, and applied for on the day Mr M repaid loan 3. The 
agreement shows that the monthly repayment instalment sums were scheduled to start at just over 
£157 on 24 December 2019 and reduced to repayment six in May 2020 for just under £86. I think its 
reasonable to use the highest repayment sum of £157 when assessing affordability.
For loan 4, PDL has informed us that Mr M told it his income was £1,193 and his outgoings were 
those listed earlier in this decision and came to £880. One declared figure was that Mr M was 
repaying other STL at £101 a month. 
PDL calculated that the highest amount repayable on this loan would have been £164.08 and this 
would have been against a disposable income of £313.00. This is just 52 % of the disposable income 
and just 14 % of the net income of £1,193.00. 
The £164.08 figure doesnt quite correlate with what I have seen on the agreement but they are 
similar amounts and so I do not think that the calculation would differ much. I think that 52% of his 
disposable income is quite high, but not, on its own, a reason not to lend.
After our adjudicators opinion PDL have asked me to consider several points. One of these relates to 
Mr Ms credit history. PDL has explained that Mr Ms credit score increased at loan 3 and remained at 
this figure when loan 4 was issued, so it says this indicated that Mr M had a good borrowing history 
and was a creditworthy customer.
For loan 4 I do think that additional checks on his financial position ought to have been carried out  
and certainly to check about additional high-cost credit or short term loans. I can see that PDLs credit 
search results show nothing untoward.
I explained earlier that the screenshots from Mr M are of a credit score with no name attributed to 
them and no detail in them and are of little value. So as Mr M has sent to us copies of bank 
statements for three accounts I have reviewed those to see what PDL likely would have discovered if 
it had carried out some more checks.
One account is described on those statements as a basic bank account ending *889. The other is for 
an account shown as a Basic Top-up Debit card account ending *959. The third is an e-saver 
account. There are very few statements which relate to the period around October/November 2019 
leading up to approval of loan 4. The e-saver shows a nil balance in November 2019. The other two 
sets of statements show some detail and there is some evidence of Mr M paying rent and some 
regular bills. There are numerous transfers into and out of the accounts which are referenced with Mr Ms full name, but I cannot be sure which transfer is going to which account. These are difficult to 
decipher. I have seen evidence of some loan payments but not enough to see them as regular ones.
I have reviewed the limited bank statements for the period leading up to Mr M applying for Loan 4 and 
I dont think that they inform me about anything over and above what PDL had already found out with 
its own searches.
While I think PDL needed to do more for loan 4, I cant say that its additional enquires would have 
revealed or led PDL to decided that the loan was unaffordable. So, Im planning not to uphold the 
complaint in relation to loan 4.
On the goodwill offer in PDLs FRL of a £25 voucher, I have no information as to whether that offer 
remains. So, I leave it to PDL to inform us or Mr M directly.
My final decision findings
PDL has emailed us to say it has nothing to add, and Mr M has not responded. We have 
contacted Mr M to remind him of the provisional decision reply date. Its in both parties 
interests for the complaint to be resolved and so I am content to issue the final decision now. 
As neither party has added anything to lead me to alter my conclusions then I have decided 
not to uphold Mr Ms complaint for the same reasons as those set out in my provisional 
findings and incorporated into this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman