DRN-2223560
The complaint
Mr A says he sent Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL) an Enduring Power of 
Attorney (EPA) document, naming two attorneys including his son  in 2017. It wasnt until 
2019 that he discovered it had used his sons incorrect address, meaning in effect the EPA 
was not valid.
What happened
FASL rejected Mr As complaint, saying that it could not verify his sons address and he did 
not have an account linked to Mr A with the address listed on the EPA. In the absence of any 
other information it set up a new account for Mr As son based on this address and could not 
have known it was out-of-date or that Mr A had an account with it at a different address.
An adjudicator at this service did not feel the complaint should be upheld.
She said FASL had not been able to verify Mr As son address listed on the EPA and it did 
not match the one on its records (relating to a joint account he held with Mr A). So it was 
reasonable to set up a new customer account and reference for Mr As son using the EPA 
address.
The adjudicator felt FASL was not obliged to cross-check for other accounts with the same 
name on its system, particularly as this could result in verifying the wrong person. 
She noted that Mr A had made a separate complaint  of failing to explain its requirements 
re certifying documents and mis-informing him about how to change his sons address. But, 
she said, FASL had offered him compensation for this and so this issue was not part of her 
investigation.
Mr A did not agree, and said:
His son gave him power of attorney on his ISA so that he could manage it; this had 
his correct current address and account number. It should have checked and realised 
this was sufficient for verification purposes
FASLs files showed it has searched for his son under the wrong first name; thereby 
failing to find a document from 2013 which showed his and his sons names on a joint 
account
The adjudicator was still not persuaded that FASL had done anything wrong. She thought 
the evidence indicated that FASL had not searched under the wrong name given the correct 
name and references on its files; rather that one of its documents included a typo (given the 
similarity of the names).
She also said that even if it had located the ISA account, this would not have allowed it to 
verify the EPA as the addressed did not match on this document either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
When considering complaints like this, my role and that of this service is to decide whether a 
business clearly did something wrong  not to question whether they might have done things 
differently.
So while I fully understand why Mr A feels FASL should have gone the extra mile to try and 
seek verification of his son and his correct address, I am not persuaded that FASL did do 
something wrong. 
Mr A sent in an EPA with his sons old address. FASL were not to know this and, unable to 
verify this address, reasonably set up a new account in Mr As sons name based on the 
address on the EPA. I do not agree that it should have trawled its records to try and find 
someone with the same name and seek to use this as a basis for verification  and for the 
reasons previously outlined by the adjudicator.
I also dont believe the evidence demonstrates that FASL did search under an incorrect 
name.
From what Ive read, Mr As sons ISA account, even if FASL had identified it, would not 
have solved the problem as this address differed from that on the EPA.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman