DRN-2088601
The complaint
Miss S complains about a default applied to her account by Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading 
as Barclaycard).
What happened
Miss S has a credit card account with Barclaycard. In December 2018, she contacted 
Barclaycard and explained that she was struggling financially. Barclaycard froze her account 
for 30 days, meaning that no interest or charges were applied during that period. They also 
refunded a late payment fee which had been applied to the account.
 
Barclaycard extended the hold on the account in January 2019. In February, they wrote to 
Miss S asking her to get in touch to let them know how she was getting on. Miss S made a 
payment to the account in February, but it wasnt enough to clear the arrears and she didnt 
manage to make any payments after that. 
Barclaycard wrote to Miss S again in April, asking her to get in touch. She contacted them in 
May. They wrote to her afterwards and asked her to complete an affordability assessment 
form and then call them to talk it through. They say she didnt return the form or get in touch. 
So, in June, Barclaycard sent Miss S a Default Notice. It gave her 28 days to catch up on the 
missed payments or agree a way forward with them. This didnt happen, so Barclaycard 
defaulted the account and recorded the default with the credit reference agencies. Miss S 
did call Barclaycard in July and they again asked her to return the completed affordability 
assessment form. But Barclaycard say they didnt hear any more from Miss S and she didnt 
make any payments to the account. 
Miss S has since agreed a repayment plan with Barclaycard. But she says she only became 
aware of the default this year, after seeing her credit file. She says its had a huge impact on 
her mental health, caused a great deal of stress and stopped her from getting credit. She 
complained to Barclaycard and asked them to remove the default.
Barclaycard didnt uphold the complaint because they said they hadnt made any error with 
the default. They said they acted in line with their terms and conditions, policies and 
procedures. And they said theyd told Miss S that her credit file would be affected.
Miss S wasnt happy with Barclaycards response and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought that Barclaycard had acted fairly and didnt ask them to do anything. 
But Miss S didnt agree so her complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise Miss S will find my decision 
disappointing, but I think Barclaycard have acted fairly here, so Im not going to ask them to 
do anything. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Miss Ss account require her to make at least the minimum 
payment each month. She wasnt able to do that and, over a period of several months, no 
payments were made to the account at all. So Miss S wasnt making her credit card 
payments when they were due and she hadnt come to an alternative arrangement with 
Barclaycard.
I wouldnt expect a business to record a default as soon as one payment has been missed. 
But, where a customer is more than three months in arrears, I think its reasonable for the 
bank to view it as a default. And Id certainly expect a bank to treat the account as defaulted 
by the time a customer is six months in arrears with no arrangement in place.
In Miss Ss case, by the time Barclaycard treated the account as defaulted, no payments had 
been made for around five months. So I think it was reasonable for them to take action at 
that point. Im satisfied that they gave Miss S notice before they took this step. They sent her 
a Default Notice beforehand, giving her chance to pay off the arrears or come to an 
arrangement with them. Miss S didnt manage to do this, so the account was defaulted.
Barclaycard registered the default with the credit reference agencies. Theyre obliged to 
report accurate information about Miss Ss account. Thats because credit files are used by 
lenders and other account providers to help them decide whether they want to do business 
with a customer. So its important that credit files accurately record a persons financial 
commitments. I realise Miss S has struggled to obtain credit as a result of the default. But I 
dont find that Barclaycard did anything wrong by registering it, as its an accurate reflection 
of the status of her account.
Miss S says that she didnt know Barclaycard had defaulted her account until she saw her 
credit file recently. But Im satisfied that Barclaycard wrote to her at the correct address both 
before and after the default was registered. So I cant conclude that its their fault if Miss S 
wasnt aware of it. 
As to the impact on Miss Ss credit file generally, Barclaycard wrote to Miss S numerous 
times in the period from December 2018 to June 2019. Their letters said that they needed to 
update the credit reference agencies and let them know that she wasnt making the 
minimum payments each month and that the account was in arrears. The letters said that 
this might affect Miss Ss ability to get credit in the future. 
The letter which Barclaycard sent to Miss S with the Default Notice explained that, once the 
default was registered, it would appear on her credit file for six years and could make it 
harder for her to get credit. The Default Notice itself also warned that details of the default 
would be registered with the credit reference agencies. So I think Barclaycard did enough to 
make Miss S aware of the potential consequences.
Ms S has explained that, when the default was entered, she was going through a very 
difficult time. And shed been struggling with her finances from late 2018 onwards. She says 
shes disappointed that she wasnt able to come to a resolution with Barclaycard. I 
sympathise with Miss Ss situation. But I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly here. They 
stopped applying interest and charges to Miss Ss account after she made them aware in 
December 2018 that she was struggling. I think that was a fair approach. They also tried to 
keep in touch with Miss S and asked her to contact them about her account.
 
In particular, they asked her to complete the affordability assessment form so that they could 
agree a payment solution with her, but they say Miss S didnt return the form. I realise Miss 
S was having difficulties at the time. But, in the circumstances here, I think Barclaycard 
acted fairly and I think it was reasonable for them to register the default when they did.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman