DRN-3631314
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about how Ageas Insurance Limited has handled their claim on their 
landlords insurance policy and about the settlement theyve been offered. Mr and Mrs A 
have been represented by a third party throughout most of this complaint, however for ease 
of reading all references to Mr A include the actions of both him, Mrs A and the third party.
What happened
Mr A had a landlords insurance policy with Ageas for a property he owned and rented to
tenants. In June 2020 the letting agent informed him that on the departure of his tenant it
had discovered theyd been using the property to house a cannabis farm and that this had
caused substantial damage throughout.
Mr A made a claim on the policy and over the months that followed Ageas assessed the
damage and offered a cash settlement.
However Mr A was unhappy with many areas of the settlement as he didnt think Ageas had
agreed to cover all claim related damage. And he said theyd delayed the claim and provided
poor service. He made a number of complaints but was unhappy with Ageas response, as
these werent upheld. So he brought them to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and upheld a number of points. She said to resolve
the complaint Ageas should pay Mr A:
£449 to replace bathroom small window.
£98.60 for the pelmet repair.
£1,350 to overboard lounge ceiling.
£9,396.67 for newer wardrobes.
£1,000 for the older wardrobe.
£130 for the kitchen alarm sensor.
£1,800 for Mr As accommodation between 1 February and 19 February.
Ageas agreed to all the recommendations except for the repair to the bathroom window as it
said the damage to this was due to wear and tear rather than being claim related.
Mr A didnt agree our investigator had gone far enough. He raised a number of concerns,
including:
The recommended awards were based on old invoices and would need to be 
recosted
to reflect current prices, so the offers arent fair.
Ageas hadnt applied the terms of the policy fairly by declining to pay for Mr As
alternative accommodation and storage costs as these were included in the policy
wording.
Mr A didnt think it was fair for our investigator to agree Ageas were fair to decline his
claim for a window on the landing due to a photo provided by Ageas that had no date
or time stamp.
He doesnt think its fair that only part of the ceiling is replaced, as the check in report
suggested that it was in a good condition before the tenants moved in.
He didnt agree it was fair that the full cost of replacing the older wardrobe wasnt
included in the settlement, as two different wardrobe fitters had said it would need to
be replaced rather than repaired.
He said he had provided a report from an antique restorer that showed the kitchen
door and bay window needed further work to restore them to pre-loss condition so
didnt think it was fair that this hadnt been agreed to.
He said the fire mantle and loft doors showed clear signs of staple and tape marks
that were consistent with other claim related damage so thought these should also be
covered.
He re-iterated the severe impact the claim has had on his mental health.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
Provisional decision
On 6 July 2022 I issued a provisional decision, which read as follows:
I note Mr A has provided a very large amount of information. As this is an informal service,
Ive not responded to every point hes raised individually. Ive focussed on the things I
consider to be most relevant to my outcome. However I wish to reassure him that Ive read
and considered everything that has been provided.
It's also important to be clear about the remit of this service. It isnt our role to make
decisions about whether a claim - or parts of a claim - should be covered under the policy.
Its our job to look at how Ageas has handled the claim and resolved the complaint and
decide if it has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
There are a number of different areas of this claim that have been disputed, in my review
Ive focussed on those I consider to still be in dispute. Those issues that are no longer
disputed I have not addressed in this decision as I consider the matters settled and have
nothing further to add.
For ease, Ive addressed each outstanding issue in turn below.
Payment for repairs
Mr A has raised concerns that invoices he has provided previously will no longer represent
the cost of the required work due to the passage of time and the steep price increases
during this time. I agree there may be some work that is more expensive. However I dont
think its fair to delay the resolution of the complaint further while new quotes are obtained. I
have therefore based my decision on invoices already provided. However if, on getting the
work completed, Mr A finds that it cost more than the original quotes he should provide proof
of how much he has paid for Ageas to consider.
Loss of rent, alternative accommodation and storage costs
Ageas has paid loss of rent from July 2020 to the end of January 2021. However Mr A has
been paying to stay in alternative accommodation during this time as he intended to move
back into the property after returning from living abroad. This meant he has also had to pay
for storage costs for his furniture while the property was uninhabitable.Mr A has pointed to the following policy term:
a. as a result of any part of Your Insured Property being made uninhabitable for:
i loss of rent or
ii the necessary and reasonable cost of alternative accommodation and/or temporary
storage of furniture as incurred by You.
Hes said that this means his alternative accommodation and storage costs should be
covered under the policy.
Ive considered this but I dont agree this is a fair application of the policy terms in the
circumstances. Ive looked at the policy wording and it is clearly titled Landlords insurance
and the policy schedule lists Mr As address and the risk address as two different places. So
I think its reasonable that Ageas agreed to take on the risk of a property that was being
rented out to tenants. This is further highlighted by the fact that Mr A called Ageas before he
was aware of the need to claim, to let it know that he would not be renewing the policy as he
intended to move into it. So Im satisfied Mr A was aware of the purpose of the policy.
When a property is tenanted and theres a claim, sometimes this will mean the owner is
unable to rent it out. However when theres a sitting tenant they may need to be put in
alternative accommodation. And I think a reasonable interpretation of this landlords policy is
that it is these eventualities that would be covered.
In this case, when the claim related damage took place, Ageas was providing landlords
cover. I therefore dont think its fair to ask it to pay for extra costs because of Mr As plans to
move back into the property. Ageas has paid loss of rent for the duration of the period that
the property was uninhabitable so could not be rented out, and I think thats reasonable and
in line with a reasonable understanding of a landlords insurance policy. I therefore dont
intend to require Ageas to pay for Mr As alternative accommodation costs or storage fees.
However I note that between the start of February and 19 February Mr A received no
support from Ageas, but didnt find out that payment would stop until the 11th of the month.
Our investigator recommended Ageas pay Mr As accommodation costs during this time,
which both Mr A and Ageas has accepted, and I understand payment has already been
made. So I wont ask it to do anything further in this regard.
Windows
Landing window
Ageas has said that the main cause of the damage to the landing window was due to wear
and tear, rather than being related to the claim.
In order to say Ageas has acted unfairly here Id need to be persuaded that the damage was
largely due to the tenants malicious activity rather than the maintenance of the window
frame. Ive considered the photos provided in the check in and check out reports as well as
those in the visit reports from Ageas loss adjuster. I can see that when the tenants moved in
the frame had been freshly painted, and at this stage there were no visible signs of damage.
However in the check out report, the paint appears to be peeling away and the frame has
started to rot. While this could be an indication of excess condensation, Ageas has also
provided images from its loss adjusters visits that show the external frame, which is also in a
poor state and appears rotten.
Based on this, Im satisfied that Ageas has acted fairly by declining the claim. The fact the
poor condition of the frame extends to the outside suggests that this is due to gradualdeterioration of the frame, rather than just the impact of the internal conditions of the house
due to the cannabis farm.
I note Mr As point that the check in reports from 2018 and 2019 show the window in a good
condition. However this doesnt change my opinion. Ageas loss adjuster comments that the
frame of the window had been painted over to cover up the rotting timber, so I would expect
it to appear to be in a good condition.
Further, I note that Mr A has said that there are some holes in the window frame which are
consistent with damage due to the cannabis farm. While I dont dispute this, I could only say
that Ageas hasnt acted fairly here if I thought the proximate cause of the damage was the
malicious damage caused by the tenants. But Im more persuaded that the main cause of
the need to replace the window is wear and tear.
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that Ageas has acted fairly by declining this
part of the claim.
Bathroom window
Ive considered the damage to the bathroom window. Mr As window report states that the
polythene sheets have caused excessive condensation causing the window to rot earlier
than it should have done. However Ageas has said that the main cause of the damage is
wear and tear, as there is a greater level of condensation in the bathroom and timber
window frames will gradually rot.
Ive considered all the evidence available and I think Ageas has acted fairly by declining this
part of the claim. While Mr As report suggests that the sheets put in place by the tenant
have speeded up the general deterioration of the windows, when considering the condition
of the timber frame on the landing window alongside the photos of the bathroom window, it
seems more likely that the proximate cause of the damage to the bathroom window is low
maintenance and wear and tear. Especially considering the frame in the bathroom is likely to
deteriorate more quickly due to the increased moisture in this room.
I therefore think Ageas acted fairly by declining this part of the claim.
French doors in the loft
While the damage on the aluminium French doors isnt noted on the check out report, Ive
considered the photos provided in Mr As window report. I can see there are small marks 
that are consistent with staples. Due to the size, I consider it reasonable that these may
have been missed when the check out inspection took place. Further, the damage is
consistent with damage relating to the cannabis farm, and other accepted parts of the claim.
So Im satisfied that Mr A has done enough to show that the damage to the French doors
was due to malicious damage by his previous tenants. I therefore think Ageas hasnt acted
fairly by declining to cover this repair.
For these reasons, I intend to require Ageas to accept Mr As claim for the French doors in
the loft and settle it in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Pelmet
Ageas has accepted Mr As claim for the damaged pelmet and agrees the damage is claim
related. However its said the item can be repaired so only agreed to cover the cost of this,
rather than a full replacement.Mr A has accepted this however disputes that the cost previously quoted will now cover the
repair due to rising costs of labour and materials.
As stated previously in this decision, if Mr A finds the cost has increased when the work is
carried out, he should provide proof of the final costs to Ageas to consider. But based on the
information Ive seen I intend to require Ageas to pay £407, less any amount already paid as
part of the settlement.
Ceilings
Ageas loss adjuster examined the damage to the lounge and dining room ceiling and
concluded that a repair would be sufficient rather than a full re-build of the ceiling. However
Mr As builder carried out the work but wouldnt guarantee it as they said they didnt consider
this to be a sufficient fix.
Ive looked at the photos of the ceiling both before and after it was stripped. And considered
the comments from Ageas loss adjuster and Mr As builders. Its clear from the photos of the
stripped ceiling at there is some damage to the ceiling that isnt claim related. For example
there are areas that have clearly had previous attempted repairs. However Ageas loss
adjuster has accepted that there has been some damage caused due to the cannabis
factory  for example by the chimney breast.
Our investigator has recommended that Ageas pay 50% of the cost towards a new ceiling.
And as I am not persuaded that all the damage to the ceiling that necessitates a repair is
claim related, I agree this is the fairest way to resolve the matter.
I therefore am minded to require Ageas to pay 50% of the cheapest quote to reboard the
ceiling, which equates to £1350.
Wardrobes
Both sides have agreed to the settlement for the two newer wardrobes of £9,396.67, so I see
no reason to depart from this decision.
What remains in dispute is payment for the older of the three wardrobes. Mr A says that on
closer inspection of the wardrobe by professional fitters, it was concluded that this would
need to be replaced rather than repaired. However Ageas has said that from its loss
adjusters inspection it concluded a repair would be sufficient and Mr A has prejudiced his
position by removing the wardrobe before it was able to inspect it again.
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied Ageas has acted fairly here by offering £1,000 towards
a repair to the wardrobe. While I appreciate Mr A has provided accounts from wardrobe
fitters that say a full replacement is needed, as these companies specialise in fitting
wardrobes, rather than in structural repairs, I dont find them sufficiently persuasive. Instead
Im more persuaded by the loss adjusters account, as they would be assessing the best
repair based on all the available options. Further, I agree that as Mr A subsequently
removed the wardrobe before Ageas could re-inspect it, I dont think its fair to ask it to cover
the full replacement without the chance to assess whether it agreed this is both necessary
and covered under the policy.
I therefore am minded to agree that Ageas offer of £1,000 for the third wardrobe is fair in the
circumstances and therefore wont ask it to do anything more.
Fire mantle
Ive considered the photos of the mantles pre and post tenancy condition. While the check inreport lists the condition as good, it also comments that it is lightly scratched and the
accompanying photos reflect this. From looking at the post tenancy photos, I agree that
there is now additional damage that is consistent with other malicious damage relating to the
cannabis farm. As Ageas has accepted other similar damage, and the fire mantle could no
longer reasonably be described as being in a good condition, Im satisfied that Mr A has
done enough to show that this should be covered as part of the claim.
I am therefore minded to require Ageas to accept the fire mantle as part of the claim and
settle it in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Bay window and kitchen door
While Mr A has said that there is claim related damage to these items, he has provided
insufficient evidence to show this is the case, so I cant say Ageas has acted unfairly by not
covering the repairs.
The checkout report details minor damage to the kitchen door and no damage is noted to the
bay window. Repairs have been included for the kitchen door in the scope of works and Ive
seen nothing to suggest these arent sufficient.
Mr A has provided a quote from a refurbishment company that states further repairs are
required to the bay window and kitchen door. But this is a basic quote, which contains no
pictures or expert opinion on causation or previous attempted repairs having failed. So Im
not persuaded that this proves that the amounts provided for in the original scope are
insufficient to repair the damage.
For these reasons, I think Ageas has acted fairly by declining further costs for the kitchen
door and the claim for the bay window.
Alarm
Both sides have agreed to our investigators view that Ageas should reimburse Mr A for an
alarm sensor in the kitchen, so I see no reason to depart from this decision.
I therefore intend to require Ageas to pay Mr A £130 for the alarm.
Delays and service
I dont doubt this has been an incredibly stressful time for Mr A. Hed been living out of his
home, not knowing when hed be able to return for a number of months. And hes shown that
this has had an impact on his mental health. Hes also had to deal with a number of different
contractors with conflicting opinions which would have been both distressing and
inconvenient.
However when considering a complaint I cant make an award for the impact of the claim
itself, instead I can only consider the impact of the business actions and ask it to pay
compensation where I think it could have done more. Here, while I appreciate the claim took
a number of months to resolve, I cant see that Ageas caused any additional delays that
could have been avoided. From the timeline, correspondence and notes provided by both
parties Im satisfied that Ageas has been proactive in moving the claim forward and
responding to Mr As requests and queries. Mr A has said himself that this is a complicated
claim by nature, as it covers almost all areas of the property. And for that reason it has taken
a little longer to resolve than an average claim. But this is due to the nature of the claim and
not Ageas actions.So while I dont wish to diminish the impact the matter has had on Mr A, as I sympathise with
him greatly, I dont think Ageas could have done anything more to move the claim along
more promptly. I therefore wont ask it to pay any compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given, I am minded to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. I intend to
require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Accept Mr As claim for the French doors in the loft and settle in line with the policy
terms and conditions, based on the recommendations in his window report.
Pay Mr A £407 for the pelmet.
Pay Mr A £1,350 towards the overboard of the ceiling.
Pay Mr A £9,396.67 for newer wardrobes.
Pay Mr A £1,000 for the older wardrobe.
Pay Mr A £130 for the kitchen alarm sensor.
Accept Mr As claim for the fire mantle and settle it in line with the policy terms and
conditions.
Response to my provisional decision
Ageas responded to my provisional decision and accepted my findings.
Mr A and his representative both responded with a number of points, which I have 
summarised as follows:
He didnt agree with my findings on the storage costs and felt Id ignored the legal 
opinion he had provided as part of his submission.
He said Consequential losses are covered under the policy, and therefore the 
storage costs and loss assessors fees should be covered under this. 
He said Id ignored his explanation that quotes would need to be updated due to the 
passage of time. 
He asked for clarification of how the claims for the French doors and the fire mantle 
would be settled as he had not yet provided invoices and had concerns that Ageas 
would pay under the market rate.
He pointed out that Ageas had paid part of the settlement for the wardrobes but still 
had a balance of £2,396.67 to pay.
He said he thought the ceilings should be covered in full.
He said he should be paid compensation for loss, stress and loss of earnings as Mr A 
was unable to work on his computer while it was in storage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further comments provided by Mr A and his representative in response to 
my provisional decision. Ill address the key points in turn.
Storage costs and alternative accommodation
Mr A disagrees with my position on storage costs and alternative accommodation and has 
pointed to the legal opinion he submitted as part of his case, that supports his opinion. I want 
to reassure Mr A that I considered all information provided when reaching the decision, including the legal opinion. However, I dont agree the policy terms provide for alternative 
accommodation or storage costs, for the reasons I have already outlined in my provisional 
decision. As I had already considered this, it hasnt changed my position outlined in my 
provisional decision.
Loss assessors fess, loss of earnings and compensation
Mr A has said that there is cover provided for consequential loss in the policy and quoted the 
policy wording which includes loss assessor fees and compensation for stress and 
inconvenience. Ive considered this but I dont agree he has interpreted the policy correctly. 
The section he has quoted is in the definitions section of the policy, so merely acts as a 
definition of the phrase consequential loss. And this is listed again under exclusions where 
it states:
The Company shall not be liable for costs arising from or in connection with:
 10 any Consequential Loss or damage
So I dont agree that these losses are covered under the policy. 
Mr A has also said that he has lost earnings due to not having access to his computer that 
has been in storage. However, he has provided no evidence to show that he was unable to 
work during this time or that his income was impacted. If he is able to evidence this, then he 
should submit details to Ageas to consider in the first instance. 
Ive also considered Mr As request for compensation again. As outlined in my provisional 
decision, I dont agree this is warranted in the circumstances. While the claim has taken a 
long time to settle, it is a very large claim that covers many different areas of the property. 
And Ive not seen any evidence that Ageas has delayed it unnecessarily, therefore causing 
avoidable distress and inconvenience. Ive not seen anything new to persuade me to depart 
from my position outlined in my provisional decision, so I wont tell it to pay any 
compensation. 
Increase in costs 
Mr A has reiterated his concern about the increase in costs since he last obtained quotes. I 
said in my provisional decision that I agree costs may have increased, but I dont think the 
complaint should be delayed further while Mr A obtains new invoices. Should the work cost 
more than the settlement amount then Mr A should provide proof of how much he paid in 
addition to Ageas for its consideration. My position on this remains the same. 
Settlement of outstanding items
Mr A queried how the fire mantle and French doors would be settled and requested that this 
service maintains oversight while he obtains quotes. 
In my provisional decision I said that Ageas should settle these items in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. Id therefore expect Ageas to assess the claims for these items and 
confirm the required repair or replacement. It should then pay the reasonable cost on receipt 
of the relevant invoices for the insured work. Should Mr A be unhappy with the settlement of 
these parts of the claim he will be able to make a separate complaint about this to Ageas, 
which could be considered by this service separately if he remains unhappy. Settlement for wardrobe
I note Mr As comments about the outstanding payment for the wardrobes, which was 
included in my recommended settlement in my provisional decision.
Ceilings
Mr A has said he thinks the damage to the ceilings was entirely caused by the cannabis farm 
and therefore should be paid in full. However, he hasnt provided any additional evidence to 
support this. Ive already considered this point at length in my provisional findings, and as 
nothing further has been provided, I see no reason to depart from provisional decision to 
settle 50% of the new ceiling. 
Having considered Mr A and his representatives responses to my provisional decision, Ive 
seen nothing to persuade me to depart from my original findings. I therefore maintain the 
outcome as outlined in my provisional decision. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas 
Insurance Limited to:
Accept Mr and Mrs As claim for the French doors in the loft and settle in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, based on the recommendations in his window report.
Pay Mr and Mrs A £407 for the pelmet.
Pay Mr and Mrs A £1,350 towards the overboard of the ceiling.
Pay Mr and Mrs A £9,396.67 for newer wardrobes and £1,000 for the older wardrobe, 
less any payments already made.
Pay Mr and Mrs A £130 for the kitchen alarm sensor.
Accept Mr and Mrs As claim for the fire mantle and settle it in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman