DRN-4145758
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that TSB Bank plc failed to advise them of their overpayment 
allowance on their mortgage within the 5 working days promised in the banks reply to the 
online enquiry they made on 9 January 2023. Mr and Mrs H have lost confidence in the bank 
because of this repeat error and want to leave the bank without having to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC).  
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have a mortgage account with TSB and made an online enquiry on 9 January 
2023 as to their overpayment allowance for that year. They then received an autoreply 
saying that Well let you know what your remaining allowance is by email within 5 working 
days . TSB sent it by post and Mr H and Mrs H received it on 18 January. As Mr and Mrs H 
had heard nothing for a week from their enquiry they called TSB. The TSB member of staff 
that Mr H spoke to denied there was a commitment by the bank to respond by email. Mr and 
Mrs H sent TSB a complaint about being lied to. Having heard nothing back from TSB, a 
week later Mr and Mrs H sent TSB a letter looking for a response. TSB sent Mr and Mrs H a 
letter dated 31 January apologising for giving Mr and Mrs H incorrect information on 18 
January and saying that TSB sent Mr and Mrs H a letter within five days of the original 
request. But this letter wasnt received by Mr and Mrs H until 18 January. Mr and Mrs H 
noted that TSB failed to respond within the same timescale last year and this was a repeat 
failure. TSB apologised and offered £50 by way of compensation.
Our investigators view was that TSB had made a reasonable offer of compensation in the 
circumstances. Mr and Mrs H disagreed saying in summary that its unacceptable that TSB 
failed two years running, TSB hasnt supplied a copy of a call when Mr H says he was told 
he was wrong, TSBs reputation has been irreparably damaged in Mr Hs eyes and having 
lost all trust in TSB they would like to leave it without paying an ERC. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue that brought this complaint is that Mr and Mrs H wanted to know what 
overpayments they could make, were told that they would have that information in five days 
by email and it came a few days later by post. Im told this happened before. Added to this 
was Mr Hs annoyance when he had a call with a TSB representative and was told he was 
wrong for saying that the response would be by email within five days when in fact he was 
right. Mr H has asked but not got a copy of that phone call. As a result of this and the 
previous incident Mr and Mrs H want to leave TSB without paying the ERC.
Mr H has asked me to consider it from his perspective. Indeed, in coming to a decision as 
there is an admitted service failure I should look at the impact on Mr and Mrs H. I can see 
that Mr and Mrs H hoped for a reply within five days by email. They didnt get it that way, but 
it came a few days later by post. I can imagine that was annoying, but I dont consider that 
the time delay was a major inconvenience. It related to the amount of the 10% overpayment 
allowance which Mr and Mrs H didnt immediately utilise. They obviously wanted to know 
what it was for their financial planning, but I cant see that short delay in obtaining that 
information had any adverse financial impact on them. The important thing I imagine was to 
get the information within a reasonable period which occurred. The phone call I would also 
consider annoying with the TSB staff member disputing what Mr H had seen, namely that 
the system told him he would get a response to his request within five days and by email. 
The TSB adviser said he was deeply sorry for the error and gave a reasonable explanation 
as to how it arose. 
Because TSB agrees with Mr H that there was a service failure I dont consider that I require 
to listen to this call.  Errors do happen and sometimes are repeated. TSB has accepted it 
made a mistake, apologised, and paid compensation. There is no financial loss to Mr and 
Mrs H. Mr and Mrs H would like to move from TSB without paying an ERC. But this isnt a 
fundamental breach of contact by TSB that would justify that. Its an annoying error, even if 
repeated, that warrants an apology and appropriate compensation both of which TSB has 
offered. I do not require TSB to do anything further. 
My final decision
TSB Bank plc has already paid Mr and Mrs H £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. So, I dont require TSB to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman