DRN-3556703
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Apollo Pension & Investment Advisers advised him to move his 
pension to a new Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and that the unregulated 
investments he invested in as a result have caused him to lose money. He would like to be 
put back into the position he would have been in if not for this advice.
What happened
Mr M has been a client of Apollo for many years. He met his Apollo adviser in September 
2013 to discuss his pension. At the time, he was aged 47 and had an Aegon pension with 
about £93,000 in a cash fund and a further £126,000 in a structured product. He also had a 
pension with his current employer receiving regular contributions and another from a former 
employer which had been valued at £67,000 in 2011 with projections of around £167,000 at 
age 65. Mr M considered the Aegon scheme to be his main pension at that time. The fact 
find recorded his risk profile as Medium-High Volatility which was described as investing 
mainly in equities. 
Although the part of the Aegon pension that held the structured investment was a SIPP, it 
did not allow the full range of investments permitted by legislation. Apollo advised him to 
transfer to a new SIPP, with Rowanmoor, which would allow him to invest in unregulated 
investments. 
He invested £40,000 each into Dolphin Trust (German property) and Whitefind Limited 
(student accommodation). The rest of the pension stayed in the structured product for the 
time being but ended up invested in mainstream funds.  
By 2 May 2017 Mr M had received a letter from Rowanmoor informing him that Whitefind 
Limited would be entering administration. Both investments were due to mature and return 
capital in 2019, but neither did. 
On 4 April 2020, Mr M complained to Apollo. The substance of his complaint was that he 
believed the unregulated investments were mis-sold and that he had been given misleading 
information about how they might perform. 
The business did not uphold the complaint, giving their final response on 21 June 2020. 
Normally, Mr M would have had six months from the date of Apollos final response to bring 
his dispute to this service, but given the ongoing issues with both investments, including a 
complaint against solicitors involved in Whitefind, Apollo said that they would allow Mr M an 
extra six months, until 21 June 2021. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us on 20 December 2020. Following further information 
gathering and correspondence, in June 2021 Apollo said that they did not give consent for 
this service to consider the complaint as it was too long ago.
Another ombudsman issued a decision that the complaint could be considered by this 
service. Our investigator then considered the merits of the complaint and issued their 
opinion, upholding the complaint.
Since Apollo did not accept our investigators opinion, the case has been referred to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether the advice to move the Aegon pension plan to the 
Rowanmoor SIPP was suitable based on the information available at the time. 
Before I consider the advice, I just want to say that I agree with the previous ombudsman 
that this is a case we can consider, and for the same reasons. Although the advice was 
more than six years before the complaint, for much of this time he had no cause for concern, 
and indeed was reassured by Apollo. He was informed on 2 May 2017 that one of the 
investments was entering administration, which was the first time when he could have known 
that he would have had reason to complain. He complained within three years of that date, 
on 4 April 2020. Furthermore, he brought his complaint to this service within six months of 
Apollos final response. So I agree that this case can be considered. 
For the sake of clarity I think it is worth noting some of the regulatory requirements and 
guidance in place at the time of advice. COBS 9 applies where a firm makes a personal 
recommendation in relation to a designated investment. Key sections are:
COBS 9.2.1R (1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1R (2): When making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable
for him.
COBS 9.2.2R:(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the 
firm to understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, 
giving due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant,
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquidassets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
In January 2013, the Financial Services Authority (FSA, regulator of pensions advice at the 
time), issued an alert for advisers reminding them of their obligations when recommending 
that clients changed pension providers with a view to investing in unregulated investments. It 
said: 
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension.
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable.
Apollo have said that they did not advise Mr M to invest in the unregulated investments. Mr 
Ms adviser said that the unregulated investments were promoted by another business, NAI 
Limited, which provided information only. NAI limited was represented by Mr Ms adviser, 
who was also the principal of Apollo, and NAI and Apollo operated from the same address. 
Mr Ms adviser disclosed the conflict of interest, in that he would derive an income from the 
activities of NAI Limited, but Mr M remains confused to this day about the distinction 
between Apollo and NAI. 
Since it was the Apollo adviser who promoted the investments, he knew that the investment 
strategy in the new SIPP included the unregulated investments.
Apollo advised Mr M to switch to the SIPP, and in order for that advice to be suitable it had 
to take into account how the switched funds would be invested and whether these 
investments were suitable for him. The SIPP advice cannot reasonably be separated from 
the intention to invest in the unregulated investments as explained by the regulator back in 
2013. 
Mr M may have been eligible to receive promotions of unregulated investments due to his 
income and/or assets. But that does not change Apollos responsibility to provide suitable 
advice. 
Apollo needed to ensure that the advice to switch into a new SIPP and the underlying 
investments there were suitable for Mr M.
Was Apollos advice suitable?In order for Apollos advice to be suitable, Mr M had to be willing and able to take the risks 
involved in that advice. He also had to have the knowledge and experience to understand 
those risks. 
The evidence on Mr Ms attitude to risk is conflicting. The Fact Find recorded it as medium-
high volatility but later, Mr M told us that it had always been cautious  low to medium. 
There is a risk questionnaire on file, and although it is undated it shows an assessment of 
Medium risk. 
As well as these descriptions, we can also consider the investments Mr M actually made 
with his pension fund. In 2011, because of stockmarket volatility, he switched his pension 
investments into cash, which shows that he was somewhat uncomfortable with risk. But he 
also invested a large proportion of his pension fund into a structured product. Although 
structured products can offer capital protection in some circumstances, they are generally 
considered to be higher risk investments because of the risk of loss if markets perform badly 
or if the bank fails.
When Mr M was advised to switch his pension to the Rowanmoor SIPP, it held roughly 40% 
in cash (lower risk) and 60% in the structured product (higher risk). I think this split broadly 
reflects a Medium risk profile, which also matches the output from the risk questionnaire. So 
I think on balance that Mr M was willing to take a medium level of risk with his pension 
investments. 
But he was advised to switch to the SIPP so that he could invest in unregulated investments. 
With the £80,000 that he invested in the unregulated investments, and the £126,000 in the 
structured investment, he then had 94% of the fund in higher risk investments, where there 
was the potential for large losses. I do not think that Mr M was willing to take this level of risk 
with his pension fund.
Apollo also had to consider whether Mr M was able to bear the level of risk involved in the 
recommendation. I have already explained that the recommendation had to take into 
account how the money would be invested in the new scheme, and that Mr Ms adviser knew 
this since he promoted the investments to Mr M. Following the advice, almost all of the 
pension fund would be held in higher risk investments. 
Although Mr M was earning a good salary and would generate significant pension savings if 
he remained in that job, that was in the future and at the time of the advice this was his main 
pension provision. He was investing almost all of it where there was a risk of large losses. I 
dont think he could afford to lose that much, so I dont think he was able to bear the risks of 
the recommendation. 
Apollo also had to consider Mr Ms knowledge and experience relevant to the investments 
being considered. At the time of advice Mr M had built up around £300,000 in pensions and 
the fact find notes that he had previously invested in conventional stock market funds, so I 
can accept that he might have had experience of that type of investment, including 
presumably some experience of the value of his investments rising and falling. Although its 
quite possible he invested previously after receiving advice. Aside from this, he had his 
structured investment, which had not yet reached maturity. As I have already said this was a 
higher risk investment, but the returns were nevertheless market-based, and although there 
was no FSCS protection if the bank failed, the product was issued by a regulated bank. So I 
dont think his experience of this is directly relevant to unregulated property investments. 
Professionally, although he worked for a bank at a relatively senior level, there is no 
evidence of any involvement in investments or property in any way. Taking all of this into consideration, I think that Mr M possibly had reasonable knowledge 
and experience of mainstream investments. But I can find no evidence that he had direct 
experience of unregulated property investments, or other knowledge that would allow him to 
make an informed decision without relying on advice. 
It was recorded that Mr M wanted a review of his Aegon pension for wider investment 
access. However, the money he was looking to invest was held in cash and he already held 
a SIPP which offered a wide range of investments. Given his attitude to risk I cant see that 
there was any persuasive reason why Mr M needed to invest into unregulated investments. 
As a business offering regulated advice, it was Apollos responsibility to advise him whether 
that was suitable or not and Mr M was entitled to rely on that advice.
If Apollo had told him the intended investments were unsuitable for him I do not think that Mr 
M would have invested in this way. Even if Mr M was attracted to access this type of 
investment (likely after it had been promoted to him by the adviser acting for NAI), Apollo still 
had to give suitable advice, which meant assessing whether he was willing and able to 
withstand the risks, and whether he understood them. 
In summary, I find that Apollos advice to switch to the Rowanmoor SIPP was not suitable 
because Mr M was neither willing or able to take the level of risk involved, nor did he have 
the relevant knowledge and experience to make an informed decision without relying on 
advice.
I therefore agree with our investigator and find that Apollo should be held responsible for the 
losses resulting from the advice to take out the Rowanmoor SIPP.
Since the investigators opinion was issued, Apollo has provided further information to 
support their position. I would like Apollo to know that I have considered what has been said 
very carefully so I am going to answer the main points below.
Apollo say that the investments concerned are not Unregulated Collective Investment 
Schemes (UCIS) and as a result our investigator was applying standards that were not in 
place at the time. Further, Apollo say that the investigators decision implies that NAI gave 
advice on the investments.  I would point out that UCIS is not a term that has been used in 
this decision to describe Mr Ms investments. It is the nature of the investments and not their 
classification that is important. The investments were unregulated, non-standard investments 
which carry high risks. Furthermore, my decision is on the suitability of Apollos advice to 
switch to the Rowanmoor SIPP based on COBS rules that have been in place since 
November 2007, as well as on guidance issued by the regulator in January 2013. So I do not 
accept Apollos position on these matters. 
Apollo also referred to Mr Ms professional position and his intelligence, but as I have 
already said there is no evidence that he had the knowledge and experience to make an 
informed decision on these investments without advice from Apollo. In any case whether the 
investments were chosen or promoted by Rowanmoor, NAI or even Mr M, this does not 
affect Apollos responsibility to give suitable advice. 
Apollo also referred to a telephone call in March 2020. Their position is that this telephone 
call provides evidence that Mr M was willing to take high levels of risk with his pension fund, 
because he was willing to lose 50% of the investment. 
I have listened to the recording of the telephone call in March 2020 in its entirety and 
considered carefully what was said by both parties. Mr M was clearly concerned about the 
losses he was facing. I would also like to acknowledge in the interest of fairness that the adviser did not try to evade his responsibilities, and was open about the complaints process 
available to Mr M. The adviser says that the telephone call shows that Mr M was willing to 
lose 50% of his investment, and that this means he was comfortable with the risks of the 
unregulated investments. I disagree with his analysis.  
I do not think that what he said meant that he was willing to accept a loss of 50% at the time 
he made the investment. At this stage in the phone call the discussion was about how to 
recover losses. What he actually said was that, if he had an offer at that time (when it looked 
like he had lost all of his investment) of half the sum invested, or of the full sum with no 
returns on top, then he would be able to enter a negotiation, but that no offer had been 
made. Earlier in the phone call Mr M said that he understood that there was a risk that the 
schemes might not pay the premium. I do not agree that it is reasonable to interpret these 
statements, or anything else in the phone call, as a willingness to accept losses of 50%.
So I have considered carefully the information provided by both parties. Taking it all into 
account I find that it was not suitable for Apollo to advise Mr M to switch his pension provider 
to allow him to access unregulated investments, which Apollo needed to consider when 
making the recommendation. Mr M was neither willing nor able to take the level of risk 
involved in the unregulated investments. Mr M was entitled to rely on the regulated advice 
from Apollo, without which he would not have suffered the losses. 
For the reasons given above, I am going to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Fair compensation 
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Apollo do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Apollo must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Apollo should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Apollo should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Apollo is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr M £250 for the impact this complaint has had on him. Mr M has said the 
complaint has caused him considerable stress, as this pension represents a 
significant portion of his retirement savings.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Apollo deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Apollo should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
transferDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Apollo 
should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. The amount Apollo pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If Apollo is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Apollo may require that Mr M provides an 
undertaking to pay Apollo any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Apollo will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Apollo 
totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Apollo Pension & Investment Advisers should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Apollo should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman