DRN-2419429
The complaint
Mrs J and her son Mr J are unhappy with Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds actions 
in relation to their motor insurance policy. 
What happened
 In November 2020 I issued my provisional decision setting out what had happened in this 
complaint, and how I thought it should be resolved:
Mrs and Mr J had a multi-policy with Advantage meaning theyre both insured under one 
policy. Mr J was involved in an accident in August 2019. The other insurer accepted liability, 
and the claim was recorded as non-fault. Mr Js car was written off, so he needed to get a 
new car. But Advantage had a system issue which didnt allow it to put the new car on the 
policy. Because of this, Advantage offered a pro-rata refund of the policy amount as it 
couldnt continue to insure Mr J with the new car.
Mrs and Mr J have been getting quotes elsewhere  and theyve said these quotes are 
expensive. And while Advantage offered £350 for a data breach, they think its only fair 
Advantage also covers the difference in premiums. Mrs and Mr J are also unhappy about the 
poor customer service theyve been given by Advantage  so they complained about these 
issues.
Advantage replied to the complaint  in summary it said:
The customer service has been poor
It cant insure the new car due to a system issue, so will offer a pro-rata refund
The claim is logged against Mr J, so Mrs J doesnt need to declare this
Itll send compensation of £350 for what happened
Mrs and Mr J didnt accept this and asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did 
so, and ultimately felt Advantage had acted fairly by not charging them for all the days they 
were insured with it (Mrs and Mr J only paid for 167 days on cover, rather than the 203 they 
were actually on cover for) and paying £350 compensation.
Mrs and Mr J didnt accept this though. They said the financial loss Mr J has experienced 
hadnt been addressed. And the compensation was only for Mrs J, so Mr J also needs to be 
compensated. Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to set out in this case that there are two key things Mrs and Mr J are 
claiming for  financial loss, and compensation for the issues theyve experienced.
Financial loss
Mrs and Mr J are claiming for the additional cost of taking out policies in their sole names, 
rather than a multi cover policy in joint names.
The question then is, had they been able to move Mr Js new car on to the existing cover, 
would Mrs and Mr J have incurred the costs they have.
Its ultimately impossible to know. Advantages system issues mean I cant ask it to test this 
question. And I cant ignore that now there has been a non-fault claim recorded, and its a 
different car, that this is very likely going to change the risk Mr J would present to new 
insurers  meaning the premiums may increase.
Mrs J has calculated the total losses as £379.63. And I asked Advantage to consider 
whether itd be prepared to meet these costs.
Advantage said it wasnt prepared to meet these costs and explained if it couldnt provide a 
new policy then it probably couldnt add Mr Js new car to the existing policy. But Advantage 
also previously said it was due to system issues rather than not being able to add the car at 
all. So, its given different explanations for why it couldnt add the car to the existing policy. 
And now its also saying it cant evidence why it couldnt insure Mr Js new car. 
I think its unfortunate that were never going to be able to know what the full and correct 
position should be. As Advantage have given different explanations and cant provide any 
evidence to back up its position, I think its only appropriate to consider whether it should 
contribute to the additional costs Mrs J has calculated. 
Advantage have said it doesnt think Mrs Js calculations are correct. That might be true, but 
because of Advantages lack of evidence we cant get to a true position. Mrs Js calculations 
for the financial loss she says Mr J has suffered dont seem unreasonable to me if 
Advantage were fully responsible for the increase. So, if we accept this, but also accept 
there have been changes to the car insured and a non-fault claim has now been logged both 
of which can increase premiums, I think Advantage should pay 50% of the costs Mrs J has 
calculated.
Compensation
Advantage have paid £350 compensation, and Mrs J has said this was solely to her for a 
data breach, and for time spent on the phone, so she wanted Mr J to be compensated as 
well.
We put this to Advantage, and it said itd paid out £350  which it understood was to both 
Mrs J, and Mr J as she was representing him. And it said they agreed to calculate the refund 
for the cancellation of the policy using 167 days on cover  not the 203 days on cover 
actually provided. And Advantage said it offered a hire car for Mr J. Because of these points, 
it didnt think it needed to do anything more.
When Advantage made the offer of £350 it said it was upholding the complaint because of 
an overall lack of assistance, incorrect process followed, call backs not completed and errors 
made on both the claims and policy side. This doesnt say the compensation is exclusively 
for Mrs J, though I accept she may have reasonably interpreted it that way. But I think its fair 
to say this compensation is for all the issues experienced. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Advantage to pay this compensation thinking itd be for Mrs J, and Mr J, to 
decide how this is split.When the policy had to be cancelled, Advantage calculated the time on cover more 
favourably for Mrs and Mr J. Advantage said there were 36 days on cover which they 
refunded Mr J for but didnt need to. So I think its only right and fair to take this into account.
I do think Advantage have caused a lot of problems on this complaint, but Im also satisfied 
£350, combined with the extra refund from the time on cover, is sufficient. I appreciate Mrs J 
feels Mr J hasnt had any compensation, but I dont think Advantage need to do anything 
further on this point.
Other issues
A number of other concerns have come up, so Ive addressed these below:
Does Mrs J need to declare a claim  it seems at one point Advantage had 
incorrectly recorded the claim in Mrs Js name. But theyve now demonstrated its 
been recorded correctly in Mr Js name. Mrs J will still need to pay careful attention to 
the question shes asked by future insurers, but no claim is registered in her name.
Mr J had to borrow money on a credit card  I understand why Mrs and Mr J 
would raise this point. But I cant say for certain Advantage would have insured Mr J, 
so I think the compensation of £350, 50% refund of the costs calculated and the extra 
refund for the time on cover is sufficient overall.
Responses to my provisional decision
Advantage replied and said they accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs and Mr J didnt accept my decision, they replied and in summary said:
Id incorrectly said they were claiming for the additional cost of policies in their sole 
names, rather than multi-car cover. They said theyre claiming for the additional costs 
of Mr Js policy.
Mr Js car was the same make, model and engine size just a year difference in 
registration, its wrong hed be penalised for a non-fault accident when Advantage 
recovered all the costs.
Mr J had to move insurance companies after six months because of these issues 
which meant he had to start the year again working towards a years no claims 
discount. 
They werent sure how Advantage had calculated the number of days Mr Js car was 
on cover for.
Advantage had said when replying to their complaint the issue was said it was a 
system error, but had told them for several weeks they couldnt cover Mr Js car. But, 
Advantage knew during this time it was due to system issues.
Mrs J said she strongly believed the compensation was only for her - £250 for a data 
breach, and £100 for the hours taken to try and resolve this issue. She didnt feel 
Mr J had been compensated still. 
Overall, they said the full amount of £379.63 should be paid, plus separate compensation 
specifically to Mr J. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  In relation to what theyre claiming for, my apologies it is just the additional costs of Mr Js 
car.
I understand Mrs and Mr Js frustration about the additional cost of premiums that may 
happen after a non-fault incident. But, even if it was the same make and model of car, its 
still a different car, where the policyholder is now older, and has a non-fault incident 
recorded against his policy. This means insurers may rate things differently  so I still cant 
reasonably say Advantage should be responsible for all of the extra costs. To me, its 
possible Advantage may not be responsible for any of the additional costs that have 
occurred  and its for this reason I thought 50% of the costs claimed for was fair, and still 
do.
As for the no claims discount Mr J had an accident and a claim was made. Ive not seen 
anything to show his no claims discount was protected. So, as Mr J had to make a claim 
anyway, he would have lost his no claims discount even if hed been able to stay with 
Advantage. 
In respect of the number of days they were on cover for, Mrs J and Mr J have suggested this 
may be a few days out. But I think the key point here is Advantage refunded Mrs J and Mr J 
more than they were required to and its important I take this into account when deciding a 
fair outcome overall.
The last two bullet points both to me relate to the compensation. I agree Mrs J and Mr J 
have been given different and conflicting information about whats happened here. So has 
our service. But, my focus is on the impact of this. Mrs J has repeated her assertion the 
compensation was only for her, not to compensate Mr J. But, I think the final response letter 
is clear in explaining the compensation is for the issues that were experienced. It doesnt say 
the compensation is only for the data breach and the hours of phone calls Mrs J made, as 
she says it does. From what Ive seen, the compensation is for them, and how Mrs and Mr J 
choose to split this is a decision for them. And, even if I thought Advantage had said the 
compensation offered was just for Mrs J  Id be comfortable its fair compensation for all the 
issues in this complaint.
Taking everything into account, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
It follows I partially uphold this complaint, and order Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
to pay to Mrs and Mr J half the costs shes calculated. I understand the £350 compensation, 
and additional refund of premiums, have both already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman