DRN-2760452
The complaint
Mr W complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) failed to reward 
him with an introductory welcome bonus when he took out a new credit card.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr W took out a credit card with AESEL. Subject to specific eligibility criteria, 
the card provided customers with a welcome bonus of 25,000 Avios points  if they spent 
£3,000 in the first three months of their card membership. 
Shortly after taking out the card, Mr W was awarded 3,000 Avios points. But in October 
2020, having spent over £3,000 in the first three months, he hadnt received the remaining 
points, so he complained. 
AESEL responded. They said that to be eligible for the welcome points, customers must not 
have held a British Airways American Express product within the last 24 months. And as 
their records reflect Mr W had, they said he was not eligible for the welcome bonus, and 
therefore the points were not awarded.  
Mr W said the 24 month condition wasnt clear, and was in small print. And he said that to 
his knowledge, the old card was cancelled more than two years ago. He also said that in 
being awarded 3,000 points shortly after the new card was taken out, he was led to believe 
the remainder would follow. So unhappy with AESEL, he brought his complaint to our service.  
An investigator considered the complaint, but thought AESEL were right not to pay Mr W the 
25,000 Avios points, as he was not eligible for the welcome bonus at the time he applied.
But Mr W remained unhappy. He said he hadnt used the old card since December 2017. 
And if he wasnt eligible for the bonus, he shouldve been notified around the time he 
applied, and therefore wouldve received a higher pro-rata refund of the card fee. 
As both parties have not reached an agreement, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr W took out the new card online, he was presented with the terms of the welcome 
offer, which included its eligibility criteria. Mr W has himself, provided us with a copy of 
these. 
The offer states  Collect 25,000 bonus Avios when you spend £3,000 in your first three 
months of Card membership. It then sets out further details of the card, including the 
representative APR, annual fee and credit limit, as well as the benefits of the card and the 
service being offered. 
The next section is titled Eligibility and says  To save time, before applying for your 
British Airways American Express Premium Plus Card, its best to make sure you can say 
yes to the following  and sets out six bullet points that cover criteria such as age, address 
and credit history. The fifth bullet point states  I understand I will not be eligible for any 
Welcome Bonus award if I hold or have held any personal British Airways American Express 
Card product in the past 24 months.
 
All of this information was set out clearly on the first page of the application, and was not in 
small print. So Im satisfied it was made clear to Mr W, that he would not be eligible for any 
welcome bonus, if he held, or had held an American express card, within the last two years. 
Mr W accepts hed previously held an American Express card, but he said he thought it had 
closed more than two years ago, as he hadnt used it since December 2017. So Ive looked 
at the evidence provided by AESEL to work out when the card was closed. 
The evidence shows that in June 2019, Mr Ws card account was assessed for dormancy, 
due to there being no spending on it for at least 12 months. And it shows that AESEL wrote 
to him in June and July 2019 with its intention to close his account before it was then closed 
in August 2019. Having not used the card for a considerable amount of time, I can 
appreciate why Mr W may have forgotten it was still open when he applied for the new one. 
But as AESEL have rightly pointed out, just because a customer stops using their card at a 
particular point, it doesnt mean it automatically closes. And as Im satisfied Mr Ws card was 
still open up until August 2019, Im also satisfied he would not have been due a welcome 
bonus based on the eligibility criteria for that offer at the time he applied. 
Mr W has argued that the letters sent to him relating to the dormancy of the account in June 
and July 2019, prior to the card closure, were sent to an old address. So Ive thought about 
what impact this may have had. But Mr W, by his own admission, said hes not sure whether 
he informed AESEL of his address change; and he doesnt have anything to prove he 
requested for the card to be cancelled prior to this.
But while Ive not seen any evidence to show that Mr W changed his address with AESEL, 
even if I accept he didnt receive these letters  which were letters outlining AESELs 
intention to close his account - then I think its more likely that Mr W wouldve thought the 
card remained open. And if he did receive the letters, he wouldve been aware of the closure 
of the card within two years of his new application. So this point does not alter my findings, 
and, the fact remains that Mr W wasnt due a welcome bonus because he didnt meet the 
required eligibility criteria. 
Mr W has said it was AESELs responsibility to tell him he had an existing card within the last 
24 months. As if hed known earlier that he wouldnt be getting the welcome bonus, he would 
have cancelled the card earlier, and received a higher pro-rata refund of the card fee. 
As Ive set out above, I think AESELs terms made it clear that it was Mr Ws responsibility to 
check whether he had an existing card at the time he applied, not AESELs. And while Mr W 
is right that he would have received a higher pro-rata refund had he cancelled the card 
earlier, given the card was cancelled later, he had access to the card for a longer period, and 
should be charged for this accordingly. So I think its correct that Mr W received a lower pro-
rata refund when the card was cancelled later for this reason.  
Mr W has also said the initial 3,000 points AESEL awarded him led him to believe he was 
eligible for the remaining points. But AESEL have told us that the 3,000 points were awarded 
as a result of him adding a supplementary card to his account, and were not related to the promotion Mr Ws complained about. And I can see nothing on the original promotion that 
mentioned customers receiving an initial 3,000 points. So I dont think AESEL have mis-led 
Mr W in this respect. 
I appreciate Mr W is upset he was not awarded the 25,000 Avios points from AESEL, and I 
know he may be disappointed by these findings. But in summary, I dont think AESEL were 
wrong in not awarding Mr W the 25,000 Avios point welcome bonus, as he was not eligible 
to receive it at the time he applied. So Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman