DRN-4070630
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires Mortgages 
(and referred to here as BM) lost their title deeds. Mr and Mrs B say that, because of this, a 
sale of the property fell through, for which they want to be compensated.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 9 March 2023. All parties have a copy of that letter, as 
well as the relevant documents, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will 
instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are 
published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs B 
being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In 2008, when Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with another lender, their title deeds were lost, 
but were re-constituted with an indemnity policy and were noted in the Registry of Deeds 
(which is the system for unregistered land such as the property where Mr and Mrs B own). 
Under this system a written summary of the relevant document is lodged in the Registry of 
Deeds. This summary, known as a "Memorial", is retained in the Registry and the original 
document is returned to the person who lodged it. (In this case, it appears that there was no 
original document to be returned, given that the Memorial was constituted because the 
original deeds had been lost.)
Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage with BM in 2013, repaying their mortgage to their other 
lender. BM instructed solicitors (WN) who at the time Mr and Mrs B were taking out the 
mortgage informed BM that the deeds had been lost, reconstructed and that there was an 
indemnity policy in place. The schedule of documents prepared by WN shows that the title 
documents sent to BM were Memorials only.
In 2021 the property was put up for sale, but the sale fell through because the title deeds 
werent available. Mr and Mrs B contacted BM, which noted that its records showed that the 
deeds were sent to solicitors (which I will call HH) in 2013, but there was no record of why 
that was. HH still had them. 
In May 2022 HH confirmed that theyd handed the deeds to Mrs B in a sealed envelope, 
which she took to another firm of solicitors (SS) who said they would forward them on to BM. 
BMs notes suggest that SS would not allow Mrs B to see what was in the envelope.
SS returned the deeds to BM with no packaging and BM sent them to Mr and Mrs Bs 
current solicitors (B&S) in September 2022. BM said it held no other deeds or documents. 
BM sent a cheque for £200 to cover the delay in dealing with the matter.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs B contacted our service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened but didnt think BM was responsible for the deeds being lost originally. He thought 
the £200 offered by BM for delay was fair and reasonable. (In error, the investigator thought 
the previous lender had later become part of, or been taken over by, BM, but he has now 
clarified that this is not, in fact, the case.)
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Theyve reiterated all the points theyve previously made and say that 
we need to carry out more research to clarify whether BM is at fault.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by clarifying a couple of things. Generally, consumers and lenders will refer to 
the deeds when talking about all documents that relate to a property. Where deeds are 
mentioned, this generally includes old searches, and other documents that are not relevant 
to the ownership of the property or any rights or obligations that affect it. The deeds are 
generally sent to lenders with a Schedule listing the documents that are being sent, and will 
usually also say old searches, maps, discharged mortgages or something similar.
I think that referring to everything as the deeds has resulted in confusion about what was 
sent to whom and when, and what was collected by Mrs B in 2022. 
The evidence shows that the deeds to the property were lost in 2008, which is five years 
before Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage with BM. The investigator has now clarified that 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage lender in 2008 isnt connected with BM. There was another lender 
with a similar name which merged with Halifax in 1995 (at which point it ceased to exist 
under the similar name). Halifax was later taken over by Bank of Scotland plc, as was BM. 
Bank of Scotland plc then became part of the Lloyds Banking Group. But the lender 
Mr and Mrs B had their mortgage with in 2008 has never been connected with BM or Bank of 
Scotland plc; it exists to this day as a building society completely separate from and 
unconnected with BM or any other company in the Lloyds Banking Group.
The evidence is persuasive that what was reconstituted in 2008 resulted in memorials, rather 
than actual deeds. Ive seen the 2013 Schedule from WN, which confirms this. The Schedule 
lists all the memorials, and also lists old searches, maps. Therefore, Im satisfied that BM 
has only ever had the memorials rather than any actual deeds, as the memorials were all 
that existed at the point Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage with BM in 2013. 
In the circumstances, as BM only ever had memorials, I cant hold BM responsible for losing 
the title deeds, as it never had the original deeds in the first place  because theyd been 
lost five years earlier, before BM ever became involved. Therefore, what was sent out to HH 
in 2013 and collected by Mrs B in 2022 was only ever the memorials. 
I can see that BM has tried to speak to Mr and Mrs Bs current solicitor to try to find out if 
there is any issue with the memorials, but he has apparently been too busy to speak with BM 
and hasnt called back. Im not sure what else BM could be expected to do in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B are likely to disagree with what Ive said, but I think the 
confusion has arisen by the use of the words title deeds to refer to the envelope of 
documents that contained only the memorials, along with searches, maps, etc. that WN sent BM in 2013. In all the circumstances, Im unable to find that BM is responsible for losing the 
original title deeds and so I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about this.
Im satisfied that the compensation of £200 offered by BM for the delay in locating the 
memorials in 2021 is fair, reasonable and proportionate, and Im not asking BM to do 
anything more. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs B to decide if they want to accept this. (If the 
cheque hasnt yet been presented and has expired, if Mr and Mrs B accept my decision, BM 
can either send another cheque, or Mr and Mrs B can provide bank account details for the 
payment to be sent directly to them.) But for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant hold 
BM responsible for the sale of the property not going ahead.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman