DRN-1429282
 
The complaint
Mr W says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford.
What happened 
Sunny gave Mr W four loans in total between June  September 2017. 
Heres a table showing some of the main loan details:
 
Loan 
Date
Taken 
Date
Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest
 
Repayment *
118/06/2017 Outstanding 6 £200.00 £59.73
223/06/2017 Outstanding 6 £100.00 £88.73
314/07/2017 Outstanding 6 £250.00 £166.40
412/09/2017 Outstanding 6 £100.00 £197.89
* highest total repayment where loans overlap
Mr W mainly said that taking into account his income and expenditure at the time, the loans 
were unaffordable and his financial history meant he wasnt creditworthy. 
Our adjudicator felt that he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for Sunny to provide 
loans 1 to 3, but loan 4 shouldnt have been lent. He explained why he thought loan 4 wasnt 
affordable for Mr W and set out the steps he thought Sunny should take to put things right for 
Mr W.
Mr W responded to our adjudicators view to say that he still questions whether Sunny 
carried out appropriate checks for loans 1, 2 and 3 given that his credit report & bank 
statements show he was using multiple short term lenders during this period.
Meanwhile, Sunny reconsidered its position and said that it was willing to accept the 
adjudicators view and offered to write off the outstanding balance on loan 4. It sent us 
details showing the figures it had worked out and we forwarded this information to Mr W. 
Mr W doesnt feel this goes far enough to resolve his complaint and hes asked for a review 
by an ombudsman. So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Looking at loans 1 - 3, like our adjudicator, I think that the amounts that Mr W needed to 
repay wouldve seemed relatively affordable compared with the take home pay hed 
declared. 
Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ws circumstances and his 
borrowing history at that time with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask Mr W for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending 
was unsustainable before agreeing the first three loans. 
In other words, I wouldnt reasonably expect Sunny to have asked to see the credit report or 
bank statements that Mr W has sent me. So if that wasnt information that Mr W told Sunny 
about, then Sunny wouldnt have known about it and I cant fairly say that Sunny shouldve 
known about it. 
So Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about loans 1 - 3. 
I agree with our adjudicator that Sunny shouldve realised that Mr Ws borrowing record 
suggested that loan 4 wasnt likely to be affordable for him  and thats borne out by the fact 
that Mr W made no repayments at all towards this loan. Sunny has said it accepts our 
adjudicators view and offered to write off the outstanding balance on loan 4. 
So I think Sunny should now do what it has offered to do to put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
As it has offered to do, Sunny should write off the outstanding balance on loan 4 and remove 
any adverse information it recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to loan 4. If it sold the 
loan then Sunny should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Elevate Credit International 
Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman