DRN-2359078
The complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC unfairly recorded a default notice against 
his credit file. Hed now like it removed.
What happened
Mr R had a credit card with Tesco. As a result of becoming unemployed, Mr R fell into 
financial difficulties and wasnt able to maintain his payments on his Tesco credit card. Mr R 
missed four payments between July and October 2018.
Mr R says he wrote to Tesco in July 2018 explaining his situation and asking for a temporary 
freeze on his account while he was looking for another job. Mr R didnt get a response so 
wrote again on 22 August. Before he got a reply to this letter, however, Tesco had issued 
him with a Default Notice on 25 September 2018.
Mr R agreed a repayment plan with Tesco two months later, in November, and hes unhappy 
that, despite this, Tesco recorded the default against his credit file. Mr R says he wasnt 
aware of this at the time or the fact that Tesco had closed his account in October 2018.
Mr R feels Tesco has acted unfairly. He says it should have offered him more support when 
he told it about his financial problems. Hes also upset that it allowed him to continue to set 
up a repayment plan, and make payments, without letting him know it had recorded the 
default against him. Mr R says the default has had a significant impact on his credit rating 
and affected his ability to obtain a mortgage at a preferential rate. Hed like Tesco to now 
remove the default from his credit file and refund the charges and interest on his account 
from July 2018 onwards.
Tesco rejected the complaint and said the default had been issued correctly so it couldnt 
now agree to remove the details of it from Mr Rs credit file. It had written to Mr R after each 
of the first two missed payments but hadnt had any response until Mr Rs letter of 22 
August. However, this hadnt been received by Tesco until 30 September and, by then, the 
default notice had already been issued. It sympathised with Mr Rs financial problems and 
said, once it was aware, it had worked with him to set up a suitable repayment plan.
With regard to his account, Tesco said this had been closed in October 2018 following a 
notice of termination. It agreed Mr R wasnt able to access his account online at that point 
but said he could still use telephone banking as well as receiving monthly statements. In the 
circumstances it didnt agree it needed to do anything more.
Our investigator felt Tesco had applied the default correctly so he couldnt reasonably ask it 
to remove the details of it from Mr Rs credit file. He understood that Mr R had had financial 
difficulties in 2018 but the information available showed that Tesco had issued the default 
notice before it had been made aware of them so he couldnt agree it had acted unfairly.
Mr R disagreed and said, in summary:
Tesco should have realised that he was having financial difficulties when he missed 
the first payment in July 2018 and taken steps at that time to support him. It hadnt 
done so and he felt this was a breach of its obligations.
Hed written to Tesco in July and again in August explaining his situation and felt 
Tesco would have received these before it issued the default notice. It hadnt replied 
to Mr R but, instead, had continued to issue the default notice. This had affected his 
credit rating significantly and was making it more difficult to obtain credit elsewhere.
Tesco hadnt told him at the time that it had issued the default notice, even when it 
was encouraging him to set up a repayment plan. He felt this was wrong as was the 
way Tesco had closed his account in 2018 without giving him the proper notice. Mr R 
asked why, if his account had been closed, Tesco was still emailing him each month 
advising him he could log in to check his balance.
Mr R felt that his circumstances, and Tescos failure to offer him support at this time, 
hadnt been fully taken into account by our investigator. He asked for his complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr R feels very strongly about this matter. I can also see that hes had a number 
of financial problems in recent years and understand that this has been a difficult time for 
him. However, while I realise that this isnt the decision Mr R is hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint as Ill now explain.
I note that on some points Tesco and Mr R disagree. I should explain that where theres no 
information on any particular point, or the information available is incomplete or disputed, 
Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities, that is whats more likely than not to 
have happened taking into account the wider circumstances of the case.
Mr R would like me to direct Tesco to remove the default recorded against him. However, to 
do that Id need to be satisfied that it had made a mistake in the way the default was issued 
or recorded. Having viewed the information I dont find that it has. 
Mr R missed the first payment in July 2018 when his direct debit payment was returned 
unpaid. Tesco wrote to Mr R at this point to remind him about the payment. It also wrote to 
him again on 13 and 24 August following another missed payment to remind him of the 
consequences of non payment and to invite him to make contact if he was having financial 
problems. Tesco said it heard nothing from Mr R, and no payment was made, so on 24 
August 2018, it issued him with a pre-default notice letter. This letter confirmed that the next 
step would be to issue a formal Default Notice, which would be registered with the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) and would impact on his ability to obtain credit elsewhere. Tesco 
says it heard nothing from Mr R so the default was registered against Mr R on 25 
September.
Its clear from this that by the time the default notice was registered Mr R had missed three 
consecutive payments and that Tesco had tried to contact Mr R several times to discuss the 
missed payments. In the circumstances I dont consider Tesco issued the default incorrectly.
Ive taken into account that Mr R says he wrote to Tesco in July and August to explain his 
situation. However, Tesco doesnt have any record of the first letter and says it only received the second one, dated 22 August 2018, on 30 September. Its not clear why the second letter 
was delayed for so long but as letters are stamped when received, I consider it probable that 
the date stamp accurately reflects the date of receipt. On that basis I consider that Tesco 
wouldnt have been aware of Mr Rs personal circumstances until after the formal Default 
notice had been issued and recorded so it couldnt have taken this into account before then.
I know Mr R feels Tesco should have realised he was in financial difficulties when he missed 
the first payment. However, there can be a number of reasons why a payment may be 
missed and its not always due to financial problems. In this case Tesco did reach out to Mr 
R to ask him to make contact if he was having problems and I think that was reasonable. Its 
also the case that as soon it was aware of his situation, Tesco arranged to freeze the 
interest and charges on Mr Rs account and worked with him to set up a suitable repayment 
plan. It seems to me that Tesco responded sympathetically and positively to Mr R at this 
time as Id have expected it to do.
Mr R says Tesco should have told him it had issued a default Notice before inviting him to 
set up the repayment plan. However, the formal default notice issued on 25 September 
stated that the arrears of £802.05 needed to be paid within 28 days failing which a number of 
steps might be taken including recording the default at the CRAs, passing the debt to a debt 
collection agent and terminating his account. This was followed by another letter on 22 
October 2018 that said: 
We recently sent you a Default Notice. Since we have not received the amount requested in 
the Notice, we are terminating our credit agreement with you. If there are any benefits 
attached to your account, these have now been stopped.. and
Information regarding your credit file
After five days from the date of this letter we will record this as a default at the credit 
reference agencies. This will adversely affect your credit file and may affect your ability to 
obtain credit elsewhere.
Im satisfied from this that Mr R had been informed that a default notice was to be recorded 
against his credit file and that his account was being closed. But in any event, I dont 
consider that the repayment plan was dependant on whether the default notice had been 
recorded. Mr Rs account was in arrears and some arrangement needed to be made to try to 
repay this and this would have been the case whether or not the default notice had been 
reported to the CRAs. 
Mr Rs explained very clearly the impact this default has had on his ability to obtain credit 
elsewhere. I appreciate how frustrating that must be but I havent seen any information to 
show Tesco made a mistake in the way it recorded this Default Notice. For that reason, I 
cant reasonably ask Tesco to remove the details of it from Mr Rs credit file as to do so 
would mean that the information on his file didnt accurately reflect the transactions on his 
account as its required to do. However, I note Mr R says the debt has now been repaid. On 
that basis his file will now be updated to show this which should reduce its impact on Mr Rs 
credit score.
I realise Mr R may be disappointed by my decision but, for the reasons set out above, I dont 
find that Tesco has made a mistake and I wont therefore be asking it to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman