DRN-4271584
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) started to charge him a monthly 
account fee for his Premier Service account without informing him that it would.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. They were satisfied that Lloyds had sent Mr A a letter to inform him that the 
fee-waiver on Mr As fee-paying Premier account would be removed and so he would be 
charged the monthly account fee - regardless of the balance on the account.
Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. He says that he never received the letter 
that Lloyds says it sent him.
As Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably. I will explain why.
Based on what I have seen, Mr A has held a fee-paying Premier account for a number of 
years. In return for a monthly fee, the account provided a range of benefits such as 
worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone cover. It also included a 
feature whereby, providing the balance of the account was kept above a certain amount, the 
account holder would not have to pay the monthly fee. This feature is known as a fee-waiver.
In June 2021, Lloyds took the decision to remove the fee-waiver from all Premier accounts 
that were still open. I appreciate that that Mr A has largely been able to enjoy all of the 
benefits of the Premier account for a number of years, without having to pay for it (in the 
times when he kept his balance above a certain level). But the removal of the fee-waiver 
feature is something that Lloyds is entitled to do. I say this because, as far as I can see, the 
account terms and conditions contain a variation clause  that essentially allows Lloyds to 
change the cost or benefits of the account, provided sufficient notice is given. 
It may help to explain that variation clauses are standard terms for package accounts. This is 
because packaged accounts usually operate on a monthly rolling basis - rather than for a set 
period of time. So including a variation clause in the account terms and conditions allows the 
bank to make changes to the account, without having to get the consent of every account 
holder each and every time the bank needs to change the features of the account.
It is essentially up to Lloyds to decide what products and services it provides and also which 
ones to discontinue too. Indeed, Lloyds added, changed and removed various features of 
the account (as well as increased the cost of the account) a number of times in the years 
that Mr A held packaged accounts with Lloyds. This includes changing the amount that Mr A 
needed to keep in the account to avoid paying the monthly fee. 
When making such changes to the account, Lloyds is required to provide Mr A with 
reasonable notice, so that he can consider his options before Lloyds starts charging the 
monthly account fee. In this case, Lloyds has provided evidence to show that itd sent Mr A 
the letter in June 2021, informing him of the fee-waiver removal. The letter explained that the 
fee-waiver removal would take place in September 2021, with the first monthly account fee 
taken from the account in October 2021.
So taking the above into account, I think that Lloyds gave Mr A reasonable notice that the 
fee-waiver was due to be removed. And having read the letter that was sent to him, I can 
see that it explained that if Mr A no longer wanted the Premier account, other accounts that 
didnt include additional benefits or a monthly fee were available.
Mr A says that he didnt receive the letter. But from what I have seen, it appears to have 
been sent to the correct address that Lloyds had registered for Mr A at the time. Mr A says 
that he moved address. But the first time that Lloyds has evidence of Mr A requesting that 
his address be changed was in 11 January 2022 - which was quite some time after the fee-
waver removal letter had been sent to Mr A. So in the circumstances, I cant say that Lloyds 
is at fault if it is the case that Mr A didnt receive the letter that had been sent to him.
Overall, I think that Lloyds did what it was required to do to inform Mr A that the fee-waiver 
was being removed. Lloyds gave Mr A options if he was not happy with the changes made to 
his account and gave Mr A a reasonable amount of time to consider his options, before the 
changes came into effect. Because of this, Im unable to say that Lloyds has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this matter. It therefore follows that Im unable to say that Lloyds should 
refund the account fees that have been applied to Mr As account since the fee-waiver was 
removed.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman