DRN-3154939
The complaint
 Mrs L complains that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) has unfairly charged her two excess
fees on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
 I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 28 October 2021, an extract of which is 
detailed below.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I have summarised what
happened.
Mrs L has a pet insurance policy underwritten by HDI, covering her dog, which 
Ill refer to as S.
S experienced breathing problems and was taken to a local vet for treatment.
When that vet was unable to resolve the issue, S was referred onto a second one.
The two vets sent their respective bills to HDI and these were paid, subject to 
the deduction of an excess fee for each vets treatment.
Mrs L was unhappy with this saying she thought she should have been charged 
only one excess as the treatment related to only one condition and she referred to 
a policy term which stated an excess would be paid per condition per policy year.
She accepted though there was another term which explained a second 
excess would be charged if a referral was made to a second vet but she said 
this should have been made clearer in the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID)
HDI maintained its position so Mrs L referred her complaint to this Service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold it, saying he thought the terms of the policy allowed HDI 
to charge two excesses on this claim.
Mrs L asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering this complaint, I have taken into account the terms of the insurance policy,
HDIs responsibility to ensure its documentation is clear, fair and not misleading and what I
consider to be good industry practice while also keeping in mind what I consider to be fair
and reasonable.
And having done that, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint, subject to further
comments from the parties. Ill explain my reasoning.
Nearly all insurance policies have an excess. The excess is the first part of a claim 
that the consumer has to pay. In my experience, I would consider it unusual that 
more than one excess would be charged per claim.
So, I consider HDIs term about applying multiple excesses to be a significant term. 
And I would expect it to be presented in a clear, fair and not misleading way to its 
policyholder. Such as in a summary document like the IPID.
Ive looked at the IPID and it does make reference to the excess under the section 
showing whats not covered: Any excess fee or co-payment shown on your policy 
schedule.
Ive then considered whats detailed on the policy schedule as this is where a 
consumer is directed to for further information about the excess.
The schedule explains The excess for veterinary fees is applicable per condition, per 
calendar year. Notably, it makes no reference to times when a second excess fee 
may become payable for the treatment of the same condition.
In this case, Mrs L read this information in a key document and, I think, reasonably 
concluded she would only pay one excess for a particular condition per year.
Ive then gone on to look at the full policy terms and acknowledge here it does 
reference second excesses If your pet is ever referred to another vet, the fixed 
excess will be applied a second time to any treatment received at the referral 
practice and If your pet is referred to another veterinary practice for the same 
condition in the same policy year for treatment, a second fixed excess become 
payable
But to me, this seems at odds with whats detailed on the IPID and the policy 
schedule. And it follows I dont consider the documentation to be clear, fair and not 
misleading.
And as Ive said above, I also consider this particular term to be out of line with good 
industry practice where the excess is commonly the defined amount a policyholder 
pays towards a single claim they make.
In this case, Ive not seen anything to suggest Mrs L is making anything other than a 
single claim  indeed, the treatment by the two vets was for the same condition, 
undertaken on consecutive days.
So, in Mrs Ls eyes, its clearly just one claim, for one condition in one policy year and 
so one excess should apply as detailed in the policy schedule.
In the circumstances of this specific complaint, I dont consider it fair or reasonable 
for HDI to charge two excesses on this particular claim. I say this as Im not satisfied 
HDI has drawn this term to her attention as it shouldve done, and I think its 
documentation is in places conflicted.
So, I plan to direct HDI to refund the second excess charged.
Neither party provided any further comments or evidence to consider and both confirmed 
they accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there were no further comments and both parties accepted what I said, I see no reason to 
deviate from what I said in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
 HDI Global Specialty SE should refund Mrs L the second excess charged of £160.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HDI Global Specialty SE to refund Mrs L £160 being the second excess charged on the claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman