DRN-3231562
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a
cancellation claim they made on an annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a Fit2Travel single trip travel insurance policy on 4 February 2020.
The policy was intended to cover a trip theyd booked to a country Ill call A. They were due
to travel between 3 and 18 April 2020. Theyd booked flights and car hire through a company
Ill call T and theyd booked accommodation separately.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a
pandemic. On 14 March 2020, As government announced that it would be closing its
borders to all EU nationals (including UK nationals) with effect from 16 March 2020. And on
15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the
Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised against all but essential travel to A.
Mr and Mrs H said their airline cancelled their flight on 14 March 2020. Mrs H called URV on
16 March 2020 to ask if a cancellation claim would be covered. The claims handler told Mrs
H that URV would be accepting all claims for consideration and he told her to get
cancellation invoices from both T and from the accommodation provider. They obtained this
evidence and sent it onto URV to consider.
URV turned down the claim. It said the circumstances of it werent covered by the terms and
conditions of the policy.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with URVs decision. They felt URVs claims handler had led
them to cancel their flights and had prejudiced their opportunities to get a refund from
either T or the accommodation provider.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be partly upheld. He accepted that
the cancellation section of the policy didnt cover changes to FCDO advice. But he noted that
the policy specifically excluded claims if a policyholder had travelled against FCDO advice.
He felt this left Mr and Mrs H in an unfair position where they werent covered if they
cancelled due to the FCDO advising against travel and they wouldnt have been covered if
theyd travelled as planned. So he recommended that URV should settle Mr and Mrs Hs
claim for their accommodation costs.
But he felt that Mr and Mrs H should attempt to recover their flight costs, either through EU
legislation or a section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act. He suggested that if either
of these routes were unsuccessful, Mr and Mrs H ought to provide this evidence for URV to
consider. In terms of the call, while he felt the claims handler had been clumsy in what theyd
said, he didnt think there was enough evidence to show that hed misled Mr and Mrs H.
URV disagreed with the investigators recommendations.
Mr and Mrs H told us that their airlines status showed their booking had been refunded, but
that their costs hadnt been returned to them. T said:
We have checked your Invoice number, and as per the notes in the booking you have
requested for a cancellation invoice - which has been given to you.
Now as per the terms the Cancellation Invoice says its non-refundable.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 November 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair for URV to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Hs policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether URV
treated them fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy, as these form the
basis of their contract with URV. Page 17 of the policy sets out the pre-paid, irrecoverable
cancellation costs URV will pay for, if a policyholder is unable to travel because:
they or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
a close relative or a close business associate in (their) home country is ill, injured 
or dies before the trip starts.
the person (they) are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
they are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
they or a travel companion have been made redundant.
of the requirements of HM forces.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs H werent able to travel for reasons outside of their control. But
their trip wasnt cancelled as the result of any of the insured events which Ive set out
above. Theres no section of the contract which covers the situation Mr and Mrs H found
themselves in. So I dont think their claim is covered by the terms and conditions of the
policy.
Our investigator thought it would be fair and reasonable for URV to step away from a strict
interpretation of the policy terms and pay the accommodation claim. Thats because he
thought it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs H to be left without any cover for
cancelling their trip due to the change in FCDO advice, but also where they wouldnt have
been covered if theyd travelled as planned.
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation wasnt
clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair and
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions.
However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain why.
Ive considered the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) provided by URV, as
well as the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy. Ive also had regard to the
industry rules and guidance which Ive mentioned above, as well as the relevant law
(including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the
policy in a way thats easy to understand. Cancellation claims due to the FCDO advising
against all travel or all but essential travel arent included in the What is not insured section
of the IPID. But the IPID relating to this policy includes a section called Where am I
covered? on page 2. This section states: You will not be covered if you travel to a countryor region when the Foreign and Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all
but essential travel.
Ive also looked carefully at the specific terms and conditions of the contract itself. Page 5 of
the policy provides a Summary of Cover. This sets out the main cancellation cover provided
by the policy. The summary also sets out that this cover will only apply if: cancellation is not
because of the failure of your travel agent, tour operator or due to the advice of the Foreign
and Commonwealth Office. Page 16 of the policy terms set out general exclusions which
apply to the whole policy. One of these says: You are not covered under any section, unless
specified, for any of the following circumstances: You travelling to an area that is classified
as Advise against all travel or Advise against all but essential travel by the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office at the time of your departure.
And the cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Hs policy, which Ive already referred to above,
also sets out a specific exclusion on cancellation cover. This says:
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to: the advice or
recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your
departure.
So the cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Hs policy highlights a specific exclusion for claims
which result from FCDO advice. Although Mr and Mrs H may have been in the position of
having no cover under this policy if theyd travelled on 3 April 2020 and also having no cover
if they cancelled, I think these exclusions are clearly and transparently set out in the terms
and conditions of their policy. It was up to Mr and Mrs H to ensure they had the level of cover
they required to meet their needs and if they wanted cover for cancellation due to changes in
FCDO advice, its likely they couldve found another policy on the market which wouldve
covered the situation they found themselves in.
Did the claims handler prejudice Mr and Mrs Hs position?
Ive looked carefully at the transcript of the call between Mrs H and URVs claims handler. I
appreciate that Mrs H has now told us that the flights were only cancelled because she
requested a cancellation invoice and this was the reason why the flights were non- 
refundable. I accept that T has also stated that the flight costs were non-refundable.
During the call, the claims handler told Mrs H that URV was accepting claims for
consideration. Like the investigator, I dont think this was a clear indication that any claim
would be ultimately be successful. As Mrs H has told us, later in the call, she and the claims
handler discussed cancellation invoices.
Mrs H asked what paperwork she would need. She told the claims handler that the airline
was trying to force them to move (flights), but that obviously they couldnt go before the end
of the year. So she told the claims handler that she wanted to make a claim through URV
instead. On this basis, the call handler said:
So get back in touch with your airline and just say that you cant do that, you just need to
cancel and that you need a cancellation invoice from them.
It seems to me then that Mrs H didnt want to potentially move her flights  instead she
wanted to cancel them. And the claims handler simply explained what shed need to do if
she wanted to do so. Ive also borne in mind that the claim form Mr and Mrs H filled out
shows their holiday was cancelled on 14 March 2020, because of the cancellation of their
flights. Mrs H told us too on 2 November 2020 that the airline had cancelled her flights and
that shed spoken to T for advice on her options and that theyd directed her to cancel the
flights (which accords with the information she was given by URVs claims handler). As suchthen, I dont think I could fairly find that Mrs H only cancelled her flights because of any
information she was given by the claims handler or that this prejudiced her position.
Id add too that given Mr and Mrs H have since told us that the airlines status for their
booking shows that their costs were refunded, it appears that the cancellation invoice didnt
affect their ability to get a refund from the airline. It may well be worth them contacting the
airline again to ask what amount was refunded, when and to which party so that they can
potentially explore this further.
Turning to the accommodation, Mrs H asked whether URV needed to see proof of payment.
The claims handler said:
Again, you would just need to cancel them as well because they may issue you a refund so I
would call them and just cancel it beforehand. If you cant get through to them, you cant get
through to them. Theres no more you can do but I would try at least a couple of times to get
through just to see if they do issue you any kind of refund.
Based on the fact that Mrs H had already indicated that she didnt want to move the dates, I
think this was a reasonable suggestion from the claims handler. He also mentioned the
possibility that the provider could issue a refund (and indeed, it did refund some of Mr and
Mrs Hs fees, although not the main booking cost). And given As travel ban and the FCDO
advice, even if Mr and Mrs H hadnt obtained a cancellation invoice, there was no possibility
of them using the accommodation on their booked dates. So again, I dont think its more
likely than not that but for the call with the claims handler, Mr and Mrs H wouldve been in a
better financial position.
Overall then, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Hs position, because I appreciate theyre
significantly out of pocket, I dont currently think there are any reasonable grounds on which I
could direct URV to pay this claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
URV had nothing more to add.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised their response:
They queried how my findings could differ from the investigators view, which found in 
their favour;
My interpretation that they hadnt wanted to move their flights and instead wanted to 
cancel them was not correct. They were only given the option to move their flights to 
the end of the year, which it wasnt possible for them to do. Theyd explored every 
possible option with T, but none were accepted. And it was at this point theyd called 
URV and were told theyd need to obtain a cancellation invoice;
Theyd followed URVs advice and were left in a position where they were unable to 
obtain refunds from any other source. URVs call handlers wording had been 
clumsy which had left Mr and Mrs H out of pocket;
Theyd contacted the airline regarding the fact their flights were shown to have been 
refunded, but the airline wont speak with them, as the booking was with T. T says 
that the request for a cancellation invoice means that theyre not entitled to any 
refund;
They queried whether Id consider awarding a goodwill payment, given that theyd followed URVs advice, which had left them unable to claim refunds elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, I still think it was fair for URV to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
I understand how frustrating it mustve been when I reached a different conclusion to our 
investigator and found that the exclusion for claims which were down to a change in FCDO 
advice had been made sufficiently clear by URV. I remain satisfied though that URV did do 
enough to highlight this clause in its policy documentation. And so Im still persuaded that Mr 
and Mrs H could most likely have found cover elsewhere which wouldve covered the 
situation in which they found themselves. Its on this basis that I find it was fair and 
reasonable for URV to turn down their claim.
It's clear that Mr and Mrs H feel strongly that their conversation with URVs call handler 
adversely affected their financial position. However, it remains the case that I dont think I 
could fairly find the call handler caused Mr and Mrs H to lose out financially. Mr and Mrs H 
have told us that the only option T offered them was to move their flights to the end of the 
year, which wasnt a possibility. Itd refused to offer a refund or credit note. So based on 
what Mrs H told the call handler, I remain satisfied that it seems most likely that the flights 
would always have had to have been cancelled and an invoice issued regardless of anything 
the call handler may have said. 
And it also seems to me that broadly, much of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint here is about Ts 
actions and its refusal to refund their costs or offer a wider credit note. Given Mr and Mrs H 
have told us that the airline booking shows that their flights were refunded, I still think its 
open to Mr and Mrs H to chase this further with both the airline and T to try and recover 
these costs. URV simply isnt responsible for Ts actions.
I still find too that given Mr and Mrs Hs flights were cancelled and As borders were closed, 
Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have been in a position to use their pre-booked accommodation. So 
this element of the trip would always have needed to be cancelled. And the call handler 
referred to the potential of Mr and Mrs H being able to obtain a refund from the 
accommodation provider during the call. On this basis then, Im still not persuaded that Mr 
and Mrs Hs financial position has been prejudiced as a result of their call with URV.
Mr and Mrs H have been left out of pocket through no fault of their own. And I sympathise 
with their position. But I dont think URV has done anything wrong which it needs to put right. 
And so Im not directing it to make any payment.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman