DRN-4072555
The complaint
Ms S complains that she was mis-sold a pension for which Phoenix Life Limited is now the 
provider.
What happened
Ms S has stated that when she was working for a company in the late 1980s, she was 
among around 200 employees who attended a meeting where they were told about a 
pension scheme that was available to them. Ms S says that she was informed that this would 
provide a large lump sum at retirement, and that it was well worth taking advantage of. Her 
understanding was that she, her employer and the government would pay into the pension 
scheme. Ms S agreed to join this employer pension scheme, and she has said that the 
pension provider of the scheme was Crusader Insurance.
Ms Ss recollections were that this meeting occurred around 1987. However, Phoenixs 
records show these pension benefits starting in 1989.
In 2016, this employer pension scheme was wound up. Ms Ss benefits were transferred into 
two plans in her name with Phoenix  a section 32 buy out bond (which held benefits 
relating to being contracted out of the State Earnings Related Pensions Scheme, or SERPS) 
and an individual occupational pension scheme policy.
In 2021 Ms S complained to Phoenix, saying that the values of her policies were 
disappointing. She said that the plans had been mis-sold.
Phoenix responded that during the 2016 winding up of the original scheme, Ms S would 
have been presented with information and options by the pension scheme trustees about 
what actions could be taken next, but that Phoenix itself had not offered her any advice. 
Instead it stated it had suggested to Ms S and the other scheme members that they could 
seek independent advice if they wanted to.
Phoenix also stated that any concerns Ms S had about any advice given when she joined 
the scheme would need to be made to whoever gave that advice. And it explained that policy 
performance was not guaranteed. But it did offer Ms S £150 to reflect trouble and upset it 
caused in delaying responding to her complaint.
Unhappy with Phoenixs response, Ms S brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. Ms S responded that it was unreasonable that 
she had been asked to join a pension scheme that she did not understand, and she asked 
for an ombudsman to review this matter.
An ombudsman with this service issued a provisional decision, explaining why she also did 
not uphold this complaint. She commented that because a pension plan may not have 
achieved the growth initially suggested does not necessarily mean that it was mis-sold.
In response, Ms S has said that the company she worked for in the late 1980s had told her 
that it was reasonable to contract out of SERPS. She says her pension is now worth little, 
and she does not understand why it was acceptable for the initial salesperson to describe 
the pension scheme in the way that it was explained to her. Ms S partially blames Phoenix 
for the value of her pension, but she also blames the company she worked for. She is 
considering approaching The Pensions Ombudsman about this.
Because the ombudsman who issued a provisional decision is not currently available, Ive 
been asked to look at this complaint and decide how it should be resolved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At outset I should clarify that based on Phoenixs records, I consider it reasonable to 
conclude Ms Ss pension benefits started in 1989, rather than around 1987, as Ms S 
recalled. Bearing in mind how long ago these events occurred, its understandable if Ms S 
does not remember the exact date that she joined the pension scheme. But Im persuaded 
by the records that Phoenix has that this company pension scheme was started in 1989, and 
its likely that this is when Ms S joined it.
In terms of the events that occurred in 1989 when Ms S joined her company pension 
scheme, as noted above, the administrator of the scheme at this time was Crusader 
Insurance. Our investigator explained in his assessment that Crusader Insurance was 
subsequently taken over, with its policies eventually moving to Phoenix.
Phoenix has stated that Crusader Insurance would not have provided advice in 1989 to 
employees such as Ms S about joining the company scheme. Clearly I cannot be certain 
what advice if any Ms S was given in this regard. But even if Crusader Insurance did give 
advice at this time, this would represent advice about a members interests under the trusts 
of an occupational pension scheme. That sort of advice is not regulated, and so this service 
would not be able to consider complaints about it.
In addition, up until 2016, Ms Ss pension benefits were still held within the occupational 
pension scheme. That being the case, Phoenix was only responsible to the trustees for the 
performance of the scheme until 2016, rather than being responsible directly to Ms S. So 
again, we cannot consider a complaint against Phoenix that relates to concerns Ms S may 
have about the performance of her pension benefits before 2016.
As already explained, in 2016 when the employer pension scheme was wound up, Ms Ss 
benefits were transferred into two plans in her own name with Phoenix. Phoenix has stated 
that it did not provide advice to Ms S about this change, and that it suggested anyone who 
required it should seek independent advice. Ms S has expressed her dissatisfaction with the 
level of pension that is available from her plans. But on balance, there is insufficient 
evidence to indicate that Phoenix has done anything wrong with its handling of the two 
plans.
I understand that Ms S remains disappointed with the return achieved on the premiums paid 
into her plans. Both our investigator and the ombudsman who issued a provisional decision 
on this complaint explained that the investment environment has changed since the late 
1980s, with average rates of return tending to fall. In my view theres nothing to indicate that 
Phoenix is at fault for the return that has been achieved on Ms Ss pension contributions. 
Although I appreciate that Ms S is likely to be disappointed with my findings, my conclusions are that Phoenix did not mis-sell the pension policies to her, and is not at fault for the final 
value of the policies being less than Ms S had expected.
Ms S has asked that Phoenix reissue its cheque for £150 that it offered in respect of its 
complaint handling, and Phoenix has confirmed that it will do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023. 
John Swain
Ombudsman