DRN-3027563
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his accounts without warning, leaving 
him without access to his funds. Hed like an explanation of why this happened, and 
compensation for the effect on him.
What happened
Mr K held two current accounts and a savings account with Barclays. 
In May 2019 Mr K went to check his online banking, but found he couldnt access it. He got 
in contact with Barclays to find out what was going on, only to be told that his account had 
been closed. Mr K tried to resolve this with Barclays over the phone, and by going into 
branch. But Barclays kept to their decision to close the accounts. They allowed Mr K to 
remove the funds held in the account in June 2019.
Mr K raised a complaint. Barclays looked into what happened, and explained that following a 
review of his accounts theyd made the decision to close them, but they couldnt provide him 
with a specific reason why. They said their terms allowed them to close accounts for any 
reason, but on reflection they should have provided Mr K with at least two months notice 
before closing the account. They also accepted the service they provided to Mr K was poor. 
They offered £300 in compensation.
Mr K didnt think this was fair, and referred the complaint to our service, saying he felt £1,000 
compensation would be fairer. One of our investigators considered his complaint, and 
agreed that the service had been poor, and Barclays should have given Mr K the full two 
months notice. But they felt that the £300 on offer was fair.
Mr K disagreed. He said Barclays had left him with no means to buy basic necessities. He 
said the entire episode had affected his physical and mental health. Because no agreement 
could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer of £300 compensation is fair. Ill explain why.
I think its important to point out that banks do have legal and regulatory obligations to review 
and monitor the accounts of their consumers. And its also important to note that its 
generally for banks to decide whether they want to provide accounts to individuals. They can 
withdraw banking facilities if they choose to do so, and dont have to provide a reason for 
doing so. What I have to consider is whether Barclays acted reasonably and in line with the 
terms of Mr Ks account in closing his account.
With this in mind, and having considered the evidence, I dont think its unreasonable that 
Barclays made the decision to close Mr Ks account. I appreciate that Mr K would like to 
know precisely why, but this isnt something Barclays are obliged to do.
However, the terms only allow for an immediate closure in a limited set of circumstances. 
And Barclays have accepted none of these applied to Mr K. So, I think the key question is 
what is a fair way to reflect the impact of this immediate closure on Mr K.
I thank Mr K for telling us how this impacted his health, and Ive taken that in to 
consideration. I can also see that he had to wait almost a month before he could withdraw 
the remaining money from the account  which involved several trips to the branch, as well 
as taking the time to speak to Barclays on the phone. I can see how he was inconvenienced 
by having to do this.
Mr K has also said that he was left unable to buy food or basic necessities. Ive reviewed the 
statements for the most used current account, and I cant see that there were regular 
purchases at merchants I might expect from a main current account. Although there are a 
number of cash withdrawals, and I accept these could be for the purchase of food. 
There also dont seem to be regular wages paid in to the account, or benefits. And there 
were few regular outgoing payments, such as Direct Debits or standing orders to pay for 
bills. This suggests to me this wasnt Mr Ks main bank account, so the impact of its closure 
would be lessened.
Ive also not seen anything to suggest Barclays prevented Mr K from opening accounts 
elsewhere, such as by registering a marker with the fraud prevention agencies. As most of 
the payments in to the Barclays account appear to be transfers from individuals with the 
reference Owed. 
If people owed Mr K money, he couldve provided alternative account details, or means of 
making payment to him. So, he had the opportunity to mitigate his circumstances, and 
lessen the impact of the closure.
But I accept it would have been frustrating for Mr K to suddenly find himself without the use 
of this account, and to have to wait almost a month to reclaim the funds in it. And the impact 
of this may have been worse due to what he has told us about his health. 
If Barclays had correctly given him the two months notice, he would have been able to 
withdraw or transfer the funds when he wanted to. By not giving the required notice and 
blocking the account right away, Barclays have caused Mr K distress and inconvenience 
which compensation would be appropriate for. 
Barclays have also accepted the service they gave Mr K wasnt up to standard, and he did 
have to call and visit the branch repeatedly, which shouldnt have been necessary.
But I also think that Barclays offer of £300 is a fair reflection of the impact the closure and 
the poor service had on Mr K. Because of this, Im not going to ask them to increase it.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr K £300, if they have not 
already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
Thom Bennett
 
Ombudsman
