DRN-3711543
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the communication and service provided by Ancile 
Insurance Group Ltd (Ancile) in relation to changes they wanted to make on their travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker. 
They were due to go on holiday but had to make a last-minute change to their 
destination which meant they had to change the grade of their policy. 
Between 17 November 2021 and 22 November 2021, Mr and Mrs H attempted to 
contact Ancile on a number of occasions with the aim of amending their policy. On 
22 November 2021, the policy was amended. 
They made a complaint to Ancile who issued a final response. Ancile apologised and 
offered a 10% discount off a new policy that Mr and Mrs H wanted to take out in the 
future. 
Unhappy with Anciles response, Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She agreed 
there was miscommunication and confusion caused between the two parties in trying 
to get hold of each other, but she didnt think Ancile had done anything wrong 
deliberately. She concluded, taking into account the overall impact, the offer provided 
by Ancile to give 10% towards a new policy was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. In summary, they say the outcome isnt fair and while the 
business wasnt deliberately misleading, they were less than helpful and didnt 
understand the urgency of the whole situation. Additionally, they say there was a lack 
of urgency, foresight and an inability to resolve a straightforward matter competently
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I need to consider whether Ancile deliberately delayed resolving the issue with 
regards to amend the policy and whether it did anything wrong. If it did, then I need to 
consider whether the offer to provide 10% towards a new policy is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive considered what happened from 17 November 2021 to 22 November 2021. I 
understand that Mr and Mrs H believe the service they received was poor and not to 
the standard they ought to expect. I also understand that there was confusion from 
Ancile in regard to when they were available to speak on the telephone and also the 
times that both parties were available. I can also see that Ancile queried the date 
Mr and Mrs H were returning from their trip and while they thought this wasnt 
acceptable (as Mrs H had already told them there was no change to the dates the 
day before), I dont think it was wrong of Ancile to check this again. 
On 18 November 2021, Ancile did email Mr and Mrs H quoting the new premium as a 
result of the change and, at the same time, said they needed to speak to 
Mr and Mrs H. This was the day after their first contact with Ancile to request the 
change. I dont think that was an unreasonable timescale to have responded by.  
I can see on the subsequent days until 22 November 2021, both parties emailed 
attempting to speak on the telephone but didnt reach each other. Following the 
weekend, the customer service manager spoke to Mr and Mrs H and the policy was 
amended. I accept this was the day they were due to travel so it must have been 
stressful for them. However, looking at everything that happened, I agree that there 
was miscommunication and confusion on when the parties were available to speak 
on the telephone, but I dont think this was due to incompetency or poor service. By 
18 November 2021, Ancile had quoted a new premium but by this time, Mr and Mrs 
H had already expressed dissatisfaction with how their query was being handled. As 
a result, Ancile had tried to speak to Mr and Mrs H and vice versa. Unfortunately, 
they didnt manage to speak until 22 November, when it was convenient for them 
both. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Ancile did try to resolve Mr and Mrs Hs query and to 
amend their policy. I appreciate it took a little longer, but it was resolved by the time 
they departed for their trip. Taking everything into account, I also dont think Ancile 
provided poor service or did anything wrong. I think therefore the offer to pay 10% 
towards a new policy taken out with Ancile is fair and reasonable. Its now up to 
Mr and Mrs H to get in touch with Ancile if they wish to accept its offer.  
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Ancile Insurance Group Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman