DRN-1373247
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that TSB Bank plc rejected Mr P's application to be joined to his 
wife's account as its systems said he was bankrupt. They also complain that TSB then 
blamed its staff for not following an appeal process.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P attended their local TSB branch for an application for Mr P to be joined to  Mrs 
P's account. Mr P says the application was rejected. And he saw on the staff member's 
computer screen, the reason was due to him being bankrupt. Mr P says he is not bankrupt 
and that caused him significant embarrassment and distress. He says in summary he has 
been caused significant problems with the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA's) and other 
financial institutions due to a family member with the same name, whom has acted 
dishonestly. Mr P says that TSB then blamed staff members at the branch for not following 
procedure which he says is not correct. He says TSB's offer of £50 compensation is not 
enough for the damage to his reputation and inconvenience. And he would like to know why 
TSB systems have recorded him as bankrupt.
TSB has apologised for what took place and says its staff should have told Mr P about the 
appeal process in branch. It says it doesn't have a record of Mr P being bankrupt and has 
paid £50 compensation and £21 for Mr P's expenses in attending a branch. It also says its 
account application code covers a number of reasons for rejection, including bankruptcy.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and says he lives in a small town in which his reputation 
has been affected and says TSB hasn't given him an explanation about what took place.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought TSB had paid a reasonable level of 
compensation and that Mr P hadn't suffered any financial loss. The investigator thought Mr P 
may have been caused some embarrassment but could have explained to staff the problems 
caused by his family member. And that TSB did approve the application some weeks later. 
The investigator didn't think it our role to punish a business or compel it to provide 
information about why it reached the decision it did.
Mr P doesn't accept that view and in summary says he was given appeal information and 
TSB's systems clearly said "bankruptcy". He says it took TSB about three weeks to deal with 
his appeal and he had no access to his money. Mr P says he will not be able to look at his 
wife or the TSB staff in the same way as a result of what took place.
The investigator asked TSB for further information and it says Mr P could have told it about 
his family member and the difficulty he has caused him. The investigator issued a second 
view on Mr P's complaint in which he reached the same view and thought the reason for the 
rejection could have been for a number of reasons.
Mr P has asked for an ombudsman's decision and questions why he received a higher 
compensation award for a mistake he says wasn't as significant. He says the experience in the TSB branch was the worst he has felt and would like further compensation and an 
explanation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise that Mr P will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about what's happened 
and the impact his family member has had upon his financial position.
I appreciate Mr P says he was caused embarrassment when he attended the TSB branch 
and his account application was refused. There is no real dispute here that Mr P was able to 
see the computer screen in which he saw that the refusal was due to "bankruptcy". So I have 
no doubt in those circumstances taking into account the problems Mr P had experienced 
with his family member that he was caused embarrassment and distress. And I accept that 
Mr P would have been concerned about where that information had come from as he would 
have known that information was incorrect.
I don't think TSB has explained why its staff member shared that information with Mr P or 
allowed him to see it. And I don't think that Mr P has explained why he didn't tell TSB staff 
about the problems caused by his family member that had been made bankrupt. But I can 
see that TSB has explained to us that its systems, when rejected an application in this way, 
would display a code and the word bankrupt that would cover a number of reasons that may 
include bankruptcy.
So I think on balance it likely that TSB's systems rejected Mr P's application and displayed 
the code and words Mr P saw. I don't think that meant TSB had a record of Mr P being made 
bankrupt or that it meant TSB obtained that information from one of the CRA's. I think it likely 
Mr P's application was refused due to other credit risk factors but Mr P saw the word 
"bankrupt" and assumed that was the reason for the account rejection. I also think that is the 
most likely reason for what took place as I have not seen any evidence on TSB's records or 
on the information it used to assess Mr P's application, that Mr P was recorded as being 
bankrupt.
I accept that TSB didn't explain matters as it could have in its response to Mr P and didn't 
explain what its codes meant. I accept that TSB may have taken the view at that stage that 
such information is commercially sensitive and not something it would want to share with its 
customers. I  think TSB ought to have explained to Mr P that the code may not have meant 
Mr P was recorded as being bankrupt. But equally I would have expected Mr P to have 
explained in the branch why such a recording would be of some significance to him due to 
what had taken place.
I'm satisfied that overall TSB has paid a fair and reasonable level of compensation of £50 
and £21 for Mr P's expenses in these circumstances. I have come to the  overall view on 
balance that it more likely that TSB didn't have a record of Mr P being bankrupt for the 
reasons I have explained. So it follows that I think its mistake was in not explaining matters 
more clearly to Mr P. I think the award fairly takes into account what took place and that I 
don't think Mr P suffered any financial loss. I appreciate that Mr P says that his reputation 
has been affected and that he can't look at his wife or the TSB staff members in the same 
way. But I think the staff members are likely to know that Mr P's appeal was successful and 
he has now been added to his wife's account. And I don't know why Mr P would think the 
wider community would know about what took place. I also think it likely that Mr P's wife 
would have been aware of the problems caused by his family member in any event and 
know that her husband had not been made bankrupt.I appreciate that Mr P would like TSB to provide a full explanation about what took place and 
to provide the information on which it based its original decision to reject his application. I 
should explain to Mr P that we are not the regulator of banks and building societies and so 
its not our role to punish a business or order it to provide the type of information Mr P would 
like .But in any event I'm satisfied TSB has provided sufficient information about the 
circumstances of this complaint for me to be able to say on balance what I think is more 
likely to have happened here. For the same reasons I can't fairly comment on what TSB said 
about the role of its staff as I don't think that is related to Mr P's complaint and it would be for 
those staff members to complain, if they took the view TSB has made a mistake in its 
conclusions about their role.
Overall I don't require TSB to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint. I 
accept Mr and Mrs P are unlikely to accept my decision but I think that brings an end to what 
we in trying to sort out this complaint informally can do to help them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman