DRN-4159587
The complaint
Mr K complains about the price charged by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to renew his car 
insurance policy. He says UKI have delayed in dealing with a claim made on his policy which 
has in turn impacted the price. 
What happened
UKI notified Mr K about a third-party claim being made on his policy. Mr K complained as he 
felt UKI were taking too long to deal with the claim and, because it remained an open claim 
at the point of renewal, it had an impact on his renewal premium. UKI responded and 
explained they take numerous rating factors into account to calculate a price and confirmed 
that any claim made on a policy would have an impact on the price. They also said theyd 
sent Mr K their best price. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. He thought UKI hadnt treated Mr K unfairly in 
relation to the pricing, and they hadnt delayed in dealing with the claim. Mr K disagreed so 
the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr K will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
UKI have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how Mr Ks 
price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its commercially 
sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the price he was quoted has been 
calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other UKI customers in Mr Ks 
position will have been charged a lower premium. 
I can see UKI have written to Mr K to explain theyve received notification of a claim from a 
third party relating to an alleged incident. In the letter UKI say, as they dont have a record of 
this incident, they ask Mr K to contact them to enable them to protect his interests. I 
understand Mr K believes this claim has affected his renewal price. As mentioned above, I 
cant provide specific detail about UKIs risk model and the specific factors which led to the 
price increasing. But, from the information Ive seen, it appears the risk was assessed 
against a closed claim  so this wasnt a significant factor affecting the renewal price. 
I can see a factor which had the most impact was a standard general price increase which 
affected all UKI customers. UKI, like all insurers, will review their approach to risks at 
different points and this will result in changes to the premium. I do appreciate Mr K will want 
to know more detail around what specific factors have led to the premium increase. As I've 
said, I cannot share all the information Mr K would likely want to see to understand why his 
premium increased as it did at renewal. But I hope it reassures Mr K to know Ive reviewed 
this information. And Im satisfied that UKI havent treated Mr K unfairly or differently to other 
customers in the same circumstances as Mr K.  
  
While I can see the claim hasnt been primarily responsible for the price increase at renewal, 
I understand Mr K is concerned about the delay in dealing with the third-party claim. 
Following the notification of the alleged incident from the third party, I can see UKI did 
discuss the circumstances with Mr K, and he explains theres no damage to his car. Mr K 
also explains he didnt own the car at the time the incident is alleged to have happened.     
Mr K asks UKI to get this sorted. UKIs call notes show they then spoke with Mr K and 
explained a third party is alleging something fell off Mr Ks car and hit the third partys car. 
The notes show there was a discussion around when Mr K bought his car and he explains it 
was on the date of the alleged incident, but he bought it in the evening, but the incident is 
alleged to have occurred at midday. Mr K denies any involvement in the alleged incident.   
Mr K queries whether the third party has dashcam footage as this will show nothing fell from 
his car  but will also show the time of the alleged incident  which will be before he bought 
the car. UKI note that Mr K has sent them proof of purchase of his car and this shows he 
bought the car at 5.45pm. 
The notes show UKI then received an email from the third-party insurer holding Mr K 
responsible for the incident. The third-party insurer alleges Mr K was overtaking the third 
party when something fell off Mr Ks car and hit the third partys car. The third-party insurer 
says they can provide dashcam footage of the incident. They also then claim the incident 
happened at night. UKI then ask the third-party insurer for the dashcam footage.   
Ive listened to a phone call between Mr K and UKI in which Mr K asks UKI to close the 
claim. He says hes concerned the claim has just been left open even though no dashcam 
footage has been produced. Mr K says he wouldve been aware if something had fallen off 
his car, so hes convinced there was no incident. Mr K says hes concerned his renewal is 
approaching, yet the claim hasnt been closed. The call handler explains the claim is 
showing as an undetermined claim and acknowledges they havent received the evidence 
the third-party insurer claims to have. The call handler agrees to call the third-party insurer to 
discuss this further. 
The call handler then calls Mr K back and says theyve spoken with the third-party insurer 
and explained, if they dont receive the dashcam footage, theyll be closing the claim. The 
call handler explains they have again asked for this evidence. During this call Mr K explains 
there wont be any evidence of this, but even if there is, the footage will show the time of the 
alleged incident, and this will show it was before Mr K bought the car. Theres a discussion 
around why Mr K believes its unlikely he was involved in the alleged incident. 
The call handler explains they do need to allow the third-party insurer time to provide the 
evidence, but theyll close the claim if they dont hear back. They agree that Mr K will call 
back at the start of the following week to check UKI have closed the claim.     
I can see UKI then closed the claim on their system a few days later. Mr K then calls again 
and explains he has another car to insure but isnt getting a reasonable price because there 
was an open claim showing on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database.  
Mr K says hed already explained to UKI he needed this sorted before he went on holiday as 
his insurance would end while hes away. Mr K says he has now received a letter from UKI 
showing the claim has been closed on their system. Mr K says he has sent this to a prospective insurer for his other car and is waiting to hear back on whether theyll take this 
into account and provide another quote. Mr K says he has now received a renewal quote 
from UKI showing a price increase. Mr K says hes limited in his options to look elsewhere as 
other insurers are taking into account the claim still showing on the CUE database and also 
arent willing to factor in the letter from UKI. Mr K says he has found out it can take up to 
seven calendar days for the CUE database to show any amendments. Mr K says this 
doesnt leave him with any time to arrange cover with an alternative insurer before going on 
holiday. Mr K says he feels UKI are responsible for the position he finds himself in because 
they didnt close the claim sooner.   
I understand Mr K is frustrated that UKI didnt close the claim sooner  particularly as the 
dashcam footage wasnt received. The information Ive seen shows UKI received notification 
of a claim, so I dont think it was unreasonable for them to open a claim. They discussed this 
with Mr K and its clear Mr K was adamant no incident had occurred involving him. I can see 
UKI did defend the claim and on a number of occasions asked the third-party insurer for 
evidence of the dashcam footage they claimed to have. I acknowledge, despite chasing for 
nearly 10 weeks, the dashcam footage was never received. So, I dont believe it was 
unreasonable for UKI to close the claim at this point  particularly as theyd agreed a 
timeframe with the third-party insurer for the evidence to be received, failing which the claim 
would be closed. 
I note Mr K feels the claim shouldve been closed sooner and he also feels UKI only acted as 
a result of him chasing. But the information shows the third-party were maintaining their 
stance that an incident had occurred involving Mr Ks car. In such circumstances, I dont 
think its unreasonable for an insurer to keep the claim open. And in this case, given the 
third-party insurers position, I dont think the period of time UKI kept the claim open was 
unreasonable. I acknowledge that, despite chasing, UKI didnt receive the dashcam footage, 
but they would need to allow a reasonable period of time for the third-party insurer to 
produce this. And in the circumstances of this case, I dont believe the time period UKI 
allowed to be unreasonable. I do acknowledge Mr Ks points about the time he bought the 
car  and how he feels this demonstrates he was unlikely to have been involved in the 
incident. But information from the third-party insurer suggests the incident occurred after    
Mr K had bought the car  so I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to keep the claim 
open at the time. I can see from more recent correspondence, the third-party insurer still 
maintains their position on the incident circumstances and have threatened legal action, so 
the claim has been reopened. 
I can see Mr K has raised concerns about not being kept updated but I cant see this has 
been raised as a complaint with UKI. Therefore my decision has considered the complaint 
points around the pricing and the time taken to deal with the claim. If Mr K would like to raise 
a complaint about not being kept updated on progress, he will need to raise this with UKI first 
and, if he remains unhappy, he can refer this to our service. 
I wish to reassure Mr K Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman