DRN-4008455
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank didnt provide the 
service it should have when he applied to open an account.
What happened
Mr Ms application for a current account with Ulster Bank was declined. He says that the 
service provided through this process was poor. He says he wasted time visiting two 
branches to provide proof of address and then when he chased the outcome, he was told an 
account couldnt be opened due to his credit rating. Mr M says he had no credit or debt at 
the time and was able to open an account with another provider without issue. He says that 
Ulster Bank took too long to respond to his complaint and then didnt respond to his emails. 
He thought £75 compensation wasnt sufficient.  
Ulster Bank issued a final response letter dated 26 August 2022. It accepted that it hadnt 
provided the service it should have and apologised for this and awarded Mr M £75 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience he had been caused. In regard to his 
application being declined it said it considered financial information from the previous six 
years and it wasnt able to provide Mr M with an account at that time.  
Our investigator didnt think that Ulster Bank had done anything wrong by deciding not to 
open an account for Mr M. She noted that Ulster Bank had apologised for the poor service 
during the account opening process and thought the £75 compensation awarded was 
reasonable. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said there couldnt be information held 
about him from other banks in the last six years and reiterated that he had been able to open 
an account with another bank without issue. He said that communication was at the heart of 
his complaint and he didnt think the compensation was enough given he needed to travel to 
two bank branches.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is about the experience Mr M had when trying to open an account with Ulster 
Bank and I can understand why he is upset by this. Ulster Bank has explained that when it 
completed its credit check it found Mr M was registered on the voters roll at his address from 
2021 onwards but no further evidence was found. Mr M has explained that he didnt have 
any other credit or debt at the time. Ulster Bank has its own processes for deciding whether 
to offer its services or not and this is a commercial decision. In this case, I cannot say that 
Ulster Bank did anything wrong by not providing Mr M with the account he requested and I 
understand that it offered him a foundation account  which I find reasonable - but he did not 
proceed with this. 
A key part of Mr Ms complaint is about the service he has received, and I agree this wasnt 
at the level it should have been. Mr M applied for the account online and then had to chase 
for an update of progress. He was then told that an application pack would be sent to him 
which he would need to complete and submit the relevant documents to a branch. I can 
understand why he felt this was an unnecessary inconvenience and that he wanted to 
complete the process online. He was then told that once he had visited the branch with his 
documents his account would be opened. This was incorrect as further checks took place 
and in this case the account wasnt able to be opened. I note Mr Ms comments that he 
needed to visit two branches and the inconvenience this caused him. Mr M has also said 
that it took Ulster Bank to long to respond to his complaint and it didnt respond to his email.
I have taken this all into account when considering the issue of compensation. I appreciate 
that Mr M doesnt think the £75 awarded by Ulster Bank is enough and he raised this with 
Ulster Bank in his email following the issuing of the final response letter. However, in this 
case, I find this reasonable. I say this because Mr M raised his complaint on 22 July 2022 
and a final response letter was issued dated 26 August 2022. I understand that Mr M thinks 
this was a slow response, but it was within the required timeframe. In its letter Ulster Bank 
acknowledged the service wasnt as it should have been, said feedback had been provided, 
apologised and said compensation would be paid. So, while I have taken into account Mr M 
had visited two branches (one wasnt open at the time) and his comments about the 
communication being poor, I find that the £75 compensation awarded in this case in regard 
to Mr Ms account opening experience is reasonable. I therefore do not require Ulster Bank 
to do anything further in resolution of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman