DRN-2949206
The complaint
Ms B complains on behalf of her son Mr B in respect of the way that Royal & Sun Alliance
Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with their home insurance claim for water damage, in respect of
the contents.  
What happened
In March 2018 Mr B made a claim to RSA following his home becoming damaged by a
substantial escape of water following the pipes being frozen. The property needed to be
dried out but no forced drying out (by machines) took place. The house had a substantial
amount of contents, a lot of which were in storage in the loft. The contents were removed in
two batches, in June and July 2018. RSA admitted that the property hadnt been dried out
using the correct method, of dehumidifiers. However during that summer there was a
heatwave and the property dried out naturally. In connection with a previous complaint to this
service about the delays in dealing with the initial claim, in July 2019 Mr B was awarded and
accepted compensation of £1,200.
In respect of the contents directly damaged by the escape of water, RSA paid a settlement
of £21,600 less the excess of £350. But on return of the contents in storage and after
inspecting some of those that remained in storage, Ms B said that the items had been
substantially damaged in storage, or in removal and a great number had been damaged by
the fact that they had remained in the damp house for a long period.
RSA offered to pay compensation of £250. It said that the items were either already
damaged by the way they were kept in storage or were subject to wear and tear and not
covered under the terms of the policy. It accepted that a few items were damaged by mould
and asked Ms B to detail the cash settlement she and Mr B required. Ms B drew up lists of
the items she believed were damaged and requested a settlement of in excess of £32,000.
RSA rejected that and advised that the settlement of £250 it had offered was its final offer.
Ms B has sent in substantial evidence by way of photos and spreadsheets. On review by our
investigator he said that RSAs approach was fair, given that it was backed up by its experts
review of the items. Ms B also sent in an expert report from a damp specialist. He
considered that the damage to the items which he reviewed photos of was likely caused by
the damp and humidity from them sitting in the house while it was only dried out because of 
the hot weather. Ms B produced a further report from a contractor advising that the property
wasnt dried in accordance with standard procedures. RSA rejected that evidence.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that RSA should pay £15,000 plus interest for 
those items that were affected by water damage, either as a result of the claim or being left 
in the property without proper drying out taking place. I didnt propose to award any more 
compensation.
RSA accepted my provisional decision.
Ms B and Mr B didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary the following points were 
made on their behalf:
The majority of the contents rejected and requested settlement for were not in the loft, 
but rather were in the living areas of the property.
It is not accurate to state that the settlement of £21,600 covered the cost of contents 
affected directly by the escape of water. This included £15,000 for textiles, £870 for 
flooring damaged by the contractors around £3,300 for items deemed to be beyond 
economical repair (BER).
Only 3 of the items that are affected by battery leakage were in storage, the rest were in 
use.
An error in my findings was noted  Id said I dont think its reasonable for RSA to pay 
for the water-damaged items, which was wrong [I accept this was an error, I have 
corrected it to non-water-damaged items].
Its accepted that it wouldnt be reasonable to photograph every item but they should 
have all been listed with a note of their condition.
They have provided photos of the jewellery which they assert was mishandled by the 
contractors. Ms B asserts that she kept her jewellery in pristine condition. It should be 
examined by a specialist and shouldnt be lumped in with the £15,000.
There are a number of missing items. If they had been at least listed properly Ms B and 
Mr B would have been able to include those items in their claim.
For electrical items, the fridge started blowing hot air. The contractors told Ms B that the 
items had been both PAT and function tested. They believe they werent function tested 
and in light of that and the condition of other items, it was reasonable not to have those 
items back. They want the cost of £7,800.
They havent been paid for all of their utility costs.
They said that I havent provided any real explanation as to why I think that a settlement 
which totals under half the amount claimed is reasonable.
They dont accept the compensation offered is reasonable, as it doesnt take into 
account that RSA didnt do all the things it promised to do, like appointing a jewellery 
specialist.
The BER items valued by them at £2,009 havent been included.
They would like all the items reviewed according to the lists drawn up by Ms B, the 
electrical items tested, the jewellery assessed by a specialist, the cost of the BER items, 
those items they believe were damaged by RSAs contractors, and the missing items. 
And to reconsider the compensation element.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
I think it has been established, both in the previous complaint Mr B made to this service and
by the reports Ms B obtained, that RSA was at fault in that the property instead of beingdried out by dehumidifiers, was allowed to dry out naturally. I think its highly likely that some
of the contents which were in storage in the home throughout this period would have been
affected by the damp and humid conditions. Whilst RSAs expert has dismissed this, on the
basis that the damage could have been done at any time, I think it fair to accept the
conclusion of Ms Bs expert. This was that items showing signs of water damage e.g. rust,
split wood, mould spots were damaged by their remaining in the home in those conditions. I
dont accept RSAs conclusion, that none of the remaining items were water damaged.
The items damaged fall into the following categories:
Those damaged in the removal process either to or from the storage unit.
Those damaged by leaking batteries.
Electrical items which Mr B was reluctant to have returned.
Those damaged by damp and humidity.
I dont think its possible to tell, for those items damaged other than by water, whether that
damage was pre-existing. Whilst there are photos I dont think this helps with regard to pre-
existing non-water damage. What I would say is that its clear the items were in storage in
Mr Bs property, mostly in the loft so its likely the damage happened there.
Ms B says a number of the items were damaged by leaking batteries. I dont think it was
incumbent on RSAs contractors to remove those batteries. As they were in storage I think
the batteries should have been removed before Mr B or Ms B placed them there. And whilst
Ms B has a report from a battery manufacturer indicating that high humidity can damage
batteries, I think the report makes it clear that the more likely scenario is the batteries being
kept for long periods.
As for electrical items, these were PAT tested and passed. And as far as possible they were
function tested. Ms B has shown us a letter from an electrical company saying PAT testing
isnt an indication of full functionality. But as this would be the usual test before returning
such items I think its for Ms B to show that the items were not functioning properly.
The service is an alternative dispute resolution service. Our remit is to try to resolve matters
informally between the parties. I have to take into account what is fair and reasonable in all
the circumstances of the case. In order to assess this, I have taken into account that I dont
think its reasonable to expect RSA to pay for the non water-damaged items. That said, 
whether or not the items were in use or in storage they still are covered under the terms of 
the policy. And given that the property wasnt dried out by standard procedures I think its 
most likely that a number of them were damaged because of the condition they were kept in. 
A substantial number of the photos show things like rust, split wood, and particularly mould. 
Ms B says the items were packed away by RSA still damp and I think thats plausible. I also 
take into account that, after its experts report RSA asked Ms B what she had in mind for a 
cash settlement. It only appeared to change its view on liability after being advised of the 
figure Ms B said she was seeking.
Ive considered whether a further experts report would help, but given the large number of
items, I think such a report would be quite costly. Further the passage of time, which will
have caused items to deteriorate, would likely cause difficulties for any assessment. Im also
mindful of how long this matter has been on-going and that there is some evidence already
which has satisfied me that some items are most likely damaged by water, and some arent.
So I think it makes sense for me to make an award that reflects that and brings the matter to
a close for both parties.
In the circumstances I think it would be fair for RSA to pay a settlement of £15,000 for the
remainder of the contents. As Ive said this takes into account the above issues concerningthe items I dont think its been shown that RSA or its contractors were responsible for. I
have also taken into account the jewellery which Ms B says was damaged as a result of the
claim, and the cost of a video recovery service Ms B used. I understand that this isnt a
scientific approach but it is one which I think takes into account my remit to reach what I
think in my view is a fair and reasonable settlement.
Ms B has complained that the items werent individually photographed as RSA had agreed
to do. It was agreed that the items would be individually photographed but this proved to be
impractical because of the very large number of items. This was after they were removed, to
assess them for whether they were beyond economical repair (BER). I dont think
photographing each item would have made any difference to the claim, unless it had been
done before removal but I dont think that was ever agreed or would have been practical.
In respect of compensation, I recognise the hard work undertaken by Ms B to assess the
damage to the items and the cost of each one. But I wouldnt usually make an award of
compensation for presenting the complaint to us. I note that RSA offered £250 which I think
is reasonable. I should make it clear that I consider that to be an award for distress and
inconvenience and cant be deducted from any settlement.  
Ive considered the points raised in reply. My decision hasnt changed, my views on the 
relevant points are set out below. 
My understanding is that the items in the loft were those that were left to be exposed to the 
damp conditions.
The figure of £21,600 was provided to us by RSA at my request. It wasnt broken down 
between items.
Of the items affected by battery leakage only three were in the loft, I accept that. It doesnt 
affect my overall decision.
I take the point about listing the items. In my experience if the parties dispute the condition in 
which they were returned, contractors notes of condition are usually disputed as well. My 
understanding is that there were vast amounts of items.
My intention was to include the jewellery in the final figure. I still think thats the right 
approach.
I undersnd the point about listing missing items, but I dont think it would be reasonable to 
include those in the settlement without evidence of them.
With regard to electrical items, I note Ms B and Mr Bs concerns. All I can say is that the 
items were PAT tested, which would be the normal step to take. I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask RSA to pay for them to be function tested (if they havent already been).
I wasnt aware there were outstanding utility costs. Mr B should provide the evidence to RSA 
and request it pays it.
As Ive tried to explain, this matter has been going on for over three years. A huge number of 
documents have been amassed and various agents have been to the property or storage to 
look at the outstanding items. The function of this service is to resolve matters informally. I 
took the view that employing further experts and specialists to review every item would be 
costly (the costs of which would be added to the claim) and time consuming. And may still 
not have concluded matters to Ms B and Mr Bs satisfaction. RSA made an offer of £250 and 
wouldnt pay any more, even after its expert had appraised the items. I took the view that that was unreasonable. 
Because of the uncertainties over the evidence and the need to assess Ms Bs value of 
every item, I decided that in order to resolve matters informally a reasonable figure should 
be paid by RSA. As a result, and as I pointed out, this isnt scientific, I thought a figure of 
£15,000 (on top of the £250) was reasonable. RSA accepted this and wasnt going to do so 
without my decision. Whilst I understand Ms B and Mr Bs desire to go into the matter 
further, I nevertheless think that a payment of £15,000 to draw a line under this is fair and 
reasonable. Ms B and Mr B are free to reject this and pursue other proceedings if they wish.
With regard to the compensation, I do bear in mind that a previous award of £1,200 was 
made (for earlier claim matters not subject of this decision). I think for the issues over the 
contents, that I am considering here, the sum of £250 offered is reasonable. I reiterate that 
this is separate to the £15,000.
My provisional findings, as set out above, are now final and form part of this final decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr B £15,000 
in settlement of the remainder of his claim.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must also add simple interest* to the settlement figure
from 8 October 2020 to the date of payment.
*Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax
from any interest paid. Should Mr B request it, it should provide him with a certificate
showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman