DRN-2180861
The complaint
Mr S has complained that TSB Bank plc wrongfully debited his account and blocked it.
What happened
In 2018, Mr S entered a debt management plan with C, an insolvency practitioner. He was 
required to make monthly payments of £140 to C under the terms and conditions of the debt 
management plan. This was set up as a continuous payment authority (CPA). In March 
2019, he agreed with C to take a payment break. C agreed to cancel the CPA. However, 
£140 debited his account in July 2019, when the CPA should have been cancelled.
Mr S believed the payment had been taken fraudulently and so he raised a complaint with 
TSB. It explained this wasnt fraud because the payment was made to C, to whom hed been 
making regular payments. However, it gave him a temporary refund on 12 July 2019 and 
raised a chargeback with C. C defended the chargeback and TSB re-debited Mr Ss account 
with £140 on 16 July 2019. 
On 24 July 2019, C told Mr S that it had made a mistake in taking the payment and had 
refunded £140 to TSB. However, TSB said it hadnt received the refund. 
In September 2019, Mr S found out that, while hed been disputing the £140 debit, TSB had 
placed an insolvency block on his account because he was in a debt management plan. It 
asked him to get a letter from C confirming it had no interest in the balance in his account. It 
later admitted it had asked for the wrong letter and needed a discharge letter instead. As he 
couldnt provide a discharge letter, TSB closed his current account. He was advised to open 
an alternative account, but his application was declined because hed applied for the wrong 
account. Eventually, TSB opened a cash account for him on 4 October 2019. He started 
using it on 17 October 2019. His current account was closed on 3 October 2019.
Mr S raised a further complaint with TSB about the service it had provided. He said when 
TSB debited the £140, he was left in debt. This was made worse by the block on his 
account. He said he couldnt pay his rent or household bills, that his direct debits had been 
returned unpaid and the merchants were threatening to withdraw services and charge him 
late payment fees. He said TSB wouldve known about the debt management plan in 2018 
and so he couldnt understand why it had decided in 2019 to blocked his account. He asked 
TSB to compensate him for lost wages, due to time spent chasing the bank, petrol costs, 
telephone bills and late payment fees.
TSB looked into his complaint but decided that it hadnt done anything wrong. It said his 
account came with an unarranged overdraft facility. As a responsible lender, it was obliged 
by law to close it, if he were an undischarged bankrupt, to prevent him from getting into 
further financial difficulties. It apologised for giving the wrong advice about the letters and 
paid him £50 for his trouble and upset. It advised him he could withdraw cash in a local 
branch. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair and so he asked this service to investigate. He asked for the 
refund of £140 and compensation for his losses arising from the block on his account.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she didnt uphold it. As part of her enquiries, 
she discovered that C had refunded the £140 into an account held by Mr S with another 
bank. She concluded, therefore, that TSB had done nothing wrong when it refused to refund 
the £140.
She also concluded that TSB had acted fairly and reasonably by placing an insolvency block 
on his account. As such, it was not obliged to compensate him, and he hadnt provided any 
proof of his losses.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view. Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision 
and hes provided evidence, which he says prove his losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr S felt he had to bring his complaint to this service. I sympathise with his 
situation. However, based on the evidence, Im afraid to say I dont think TSB did anything 
wrong here or acted unreasonably. If anything, I think C was at fault. Ill explain why Ive 
reached this decision.
The £140 payment
The starting position in law is that TSB is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms and conditions of the customers account.  The £140 payment was 
authorised by the continuous payment authority which, it seems, C forgot to cancel. I think 
Mr S agrees now that this wasnt a fraudulent payment. Under the regulations, TSB is not 
obliged to refund an authorised payment.
However, it did raise a chargeback, which was the most appropriate action to take. As the 
investigator explained, this is a voluntary process offered by the card issuer to get money 
back if there are problems with the goods or services paid for with the money. The customer 
doesnt have a right to a chargeback or a refund. And when C defended the chargeback, 
there was nothing more that TSB could do without further evidence to contradict what C had 
told it. And so, it re-debited Mr Ss account. I dont think this was unreasonable.
Eventually, C admitted it had made a mistake and refunded the £140, only it paid the money 
into a different account on 17 September 2019. 
Its clear to me that C was at fault here and not TSB. TSB couldnt credit Mr Ss account with 
money it hadnt received. Ive seen the bank statement for the other account and Im 
satisfied C refunded the £140 to Mr S. So, he is no longer out of pocket. I dont consider that 
TSB has done anything wrong and I wont be asking it to refund any sums to Mr S.
Block on the account
Initially, I was surprised that TSB didnt know about the debt management plan in 2018. 
However, it appears from its files that Mr Ss account wouldnt have been included in the 
plan because he didnt owe TSB any money. Its plausible, therefore, that C didnt tell TSB 
that Mr S was in a debt management plan in 2018. Im satisfied that TSB were entitled to apply an insolvency block on his account to prevent 
him from getting into further financial difficulties by using the overdraft facility. Again, I dont 
consider that this was unfair or unreasonable.
If TSB had left Mr S without access to his money, then I might have taken a different view. 
However, it told him he could withdraw cash from a local branch if he took the letter from C 
with him.  Also, his bank statements show that, from July 2019 to October 2019, his bills and 
outgoings continued to be paid from his account. There is only one direct debit which was 
returned and that was to a phone provider. Its not clear from the statement why this was 
returned but I dont think it was because of the block as other payments left the account. Mr 
S was also using his debit card until 3 September 2019. I couldnt see any late payment fees 
on his account.
Ive looked at the evidence which Mr S has provided to support his claim for compensation. 
They are mainly text messages from merchants about outstanding balances and unpaid 
direct debits. Some of the messages are undated so I dont know when the payments were 
missed or returned. One of the merchants wasnt paid from this account. For the others, it 
looks as if they relate to September 2019 payments. However, there are no corresponding 
transactions on his current account statement for September 2019, other than the returned 
direct debit from his phone provider. TSB said there were some unpaid direct debits on the 
newly opened cash account, but they were returned because of insufficient funds in the 
account. 
Im not persuaded, therefore, that Mr S was left in debt or unable to pay his outgoings 
because of the block or the £140 which re-debited his account.
For these reasons, I wont be asking TSB to compensate Mr S for any alleged losses or for 
his expenses incurred in pursuing his complaint. Besides, Mr S hasnt provided proof that he 
lost any wages trying to resolve his dispute with TSB and he hasnt provided proof of petrol 
or phone costs.
I note that TSB has already paid him £50 for its mistaken advice on the letter from C. I think 
this was a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr S, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021. 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman