The complaint
Ms R is unhappy as she thinks HSBC UK Bank Plc provided incorrect information that has 
delayed an international payment crediting her account.
What happened
Ms R has a current account with HSBC. 
In January 2020 a payment was to be made into her account in euros from overseas. The 
sender asked for the account details to complete the payment, including the International 
Bank Account Number (IBAN) and Bank Identifier Code (BIC). Ms R provided the sender a 
copy of her account statement, which contained this information. And the sender said that 
the payment would be arranged on 27 January 2020. 
Ms R says she called HSBC to confirm the transfer was being made and asked if there was 
anything else she needed to be aware of. She says HSBC told her nothing further would be 
required.
On 30 January 2020 the sender contacted Ms R to tell her it was having difficulty sending 
the money. It told her that the BIC she provided was being rejected. 
Ms R again contacted HSBC. It could not see a reason for the problem but suggested using 
its generic BIC instead (the one on Ms Rs account statements was branch specific).
The payment was then successfully processed on 31 January 2020. The funds were 
credited to HSBC in euros. It exchanged these into sterling at the rate applicable at the time 
the funds were received and credited this to Ms Rs account.
Ms R complained to HSBC that it had caused the delay by not displaying the information 
needed on her statements. She felt it should formally apologise, change the information on 
its statements, pay her the difference in exchange rate between what she did receive and 
what she wouldve received had the transfer gone through when first attempted and 
compensate her for the inconvenience caused.
HSBC said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said either the branch specific BIC on Ms Rs 
statements or its generic BIC could be used when paying money to her account. So, it didnt 
feel it had caused the delay. And it said it had applied the correct exchange rate so didnt 
feel it should cover any difference.
Unhappy with this response Ms R asked our service to look into her complaint. Our 
investigator considered matters but didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. 
Ms R did not agree with the investigators opinion. As a result, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
DRN-1943429What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the statement Ms R provided to the party sending the payment. This included a 
BIC and IBAN. And I havent seen anything to suggest that the information outlined is 
incorrect. The BIC is branch specific. But appears to correspond to the sort code also 
shown. And Ive seen evidence of previous successful payments into Ms Rs account using 
the IBAN listed. So, I dont think HSBC has provided incorrect information. 
Ive seen the correspondence between Ms R and the sender, and this does indicate the BIC 
was what the sender believed the problem was. And given that the payment was successful 
after Ms R provided HSBCs generic BIC code, on balance I think this was likely the issue. 
But I dont think I can reasonably say on balance this was HSBCs fault or due to its error.
HSBC has said both the branch specific and generic BIC can be used for international 
payments. With this in mind, when Ms R called HSBC to ask if she needed any further 
information, I dont think it was wrong to say she didnt need anything further. HSBC has also 
said that payments from certain countries, including where this payment was coming from, in 
fact only require an IBAN. And again, Ive seen evidence of successful international 
payments to Ms Rs account prior to this one, which only appear to quote the IBAN. 
It isnt clear why the payment was unsuccessful when using the branch specific BIC. But as 
Ive said the information shown on Ms Rs HSBC account statement appears correct. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that HSBC rejected the funds in the days prior to them 
eventually being received. So, it doesnt appear that HSBC was preventing the transaction 
from going through. As a result, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that HSBC caused 
the transfer to be unsuccessful.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think HSBC caused any delay in the transfer being 
made. So, I cant reasonably require it to cover any difference in exchange rate. I also cant 
require it to change the information it displays on its statements  as this does not appear to 
be incorrect and is anyway a matter of its commercial judgement, which we wouldnt 
generally interfere with. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman