DRN-2608786
The complaint
Mr and Miss J, as executors of the late Mr Cs estate, are unhappy that Mortgage Express 
continued to charge interest on the mortgage account of the late Mr C after he passed away 
and while they were waiting to sell his property.
 
What happened
Mr C sadly passed away in June 2020. I would like to express my condolences for Mr and 
Miss Js loss. 
Mortgage Express wrote to Mr and Miss J, as executors of Mr Cs estate, shortly thereafter 
asking for their intentions regarding the redemption of the mortgage account and to notify 
them that this would continue to attract interest until it was redeemed in full. 
Mr and Miss J responded to Mortgage Express in July 2020 informing it that they intended to 
sell the property as soon as possible and settle the outstanding mortgage. They also 
requested that the interest was put on hold from the date of their letter until probate had 
been granted as they believed it would be unfair to charge interest during the pandemic 
which was causing probate to take longer than usual. Mr and Miss J advised Mortgage 
Express that they were not in a position to make any payments towards the mortgage and 
that they were not liable for the mortgage as executors.
Mortgage Express has said that interest is charged on an account until the loan is repaid in 
full and that this is part of the terms and conditions of the mortgage. It was therefore unable 
to freeze interest on the account until the mortgage was repaid in full. Mortgage Express 
said that it would allow 12 months for an account to be redeemed prior to considering legal 
action to recover the debt but that it could consider an extension if there were mitigating 
circumstances.
Mr and Miss J dont feel that Mortgage Express has treated Mr C or themselves fairly or paid 
regard to their interests as it didnt remove the interest charges and provided a period of 
grace to allow them to sell the property. They also say that Mortgage Express failed to 
communicate in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading as it has only said that the 
interest charges are part of the terms and conditions of the mortgage and it hasnt explained 
why it is unable to freeze the interest for a period of time or show any compassion as Mr C 
has died. Mr and Miss J say they werent party to the terms and conditions so these should 
have come to an end when Mr C passed away. 
Mortgage Express sent Mr and Miss J letters every month from August 2020 to indicate that 
the mortgage was in arrears and sent them statements of account. The letters also set out 
that a fee of £40 a month may be charged whilst the mortgage account was in arrears.
Mr and Miss J further complained that Mortgage Express was sending letters continually 
pestering them demanding payment which was unacceptable while they were still grieving 
for their loss. They said that it would be unfair to charge a late payment fee given that Mr C 
was unable to make the repayments as he had died. They also complained about the delay 
in Mortgage Express sending them the terms and conditions which they had requested. Mr J 
also complained that Mortgage Express used his personal address to send demanding 
letters in relation to the late Mr Cs mortgage. This meant that Mr Js address had shown on 
Mr Cs credit file when it should not have done. 
Mortgage Express said that the letters sent were for information purposes regarding the 
arrears, payments due and possible next actions. These were not meant to cause any 
distress but it is duty bound by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to send the letters and 
these would therefore continue until the account was redeemed. Although the letters set out 
that an arrears administration fee was chargeable, this charge had been supressed to allow 
for the sale of the property which was expected to be in January 2021 at that time.
Mortgage Express also said that Mr Js address had been uploaded onto its system as a 
correspondence address once it received the Grant of Probate in order to keep him up to 
date regarding the account and contact him where necessary. However, an administration 
error occurred which linked Mr Js correspondence address to Mr Cs credit file. Mortgage 
Express has since removed Mr Js address as a correspondence address and assured him 
that this does not make him a mortgagor to Mr Cs account and would have no negative 
impact on his own credit file. It also arranged to have the information on the credit file 
corrected. Mortgage Express also apologised for the delay in sending the terms and 
conditions, which had been provided in December 2020. It offered £200 to compensate Mr 
and Miss J in recognition of the trouble and upset which may have been caused in light of its 
error and poor service received.
Our investigator has looked into this complaint and found that Mortgage Express dealt with 
Mr Cs estate fairly so didnt ask it to do anything more. She explained that she was unable 
to consider how Mortgage Expresss  actions affected Mr and Miss J themselves as opposed 
to the estate, as they werent Mortgage Expresss customers. In relation to the interest being 
charged, our investigator found that it was not unreasonable of Mortgage Express not to 
freeze the interest and that this was in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage. She thought it was fair that Mortgage Express hadnt charged the arrears fees to 
allow for the sale of the property. Regarding the arrears letters, the investigator didnt believe 
Mortgage Express had acted unreasonably by keeping the estate informed of what was 
happening on the account. In relation to Mr Js address being on Mr Cs credit file, she 
believed Mortgage Express had made a fair offer as it had acknowledged its error, taken 
steps to rectify it and offered appropriate compensation for the trouble and upset caused, 
which had been accepted by Mr and Miss J.
Mr and Miss J disagree with the investigators view so the case has come to me to make a 
decision. They maintain that Mortgage Express hasnt treated the estate fairly and dont 
accept that we cant consider how Mortgage Express has treated them as executors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below.
Firstly, Id like to deal with what Mr and Miss J have said about this service not being able to 
consider how Mortgage Express has treated them.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer, which was the late Mr C in 
this case. When he died the right to complain passed to his estate. Although Mr and Miss J 
are representing the estate, they personally werent customers of Mortgage Express. Mr and Miss Js role is to bring the complaint on behalf of the estate, in the same way that a person 
might instruct a solicitor or other professional to represent them in a complaint. 
Unfortunately, I dont therefore have the power to look at a complaint from Mr and Miss J in 
their personal capacity or look at how this matter has affected them personally. Whilst I 
understand all of the points theyve made and that this matter has been difficult and 
upsetting for them to deal with, unfortunately thats just not something Ive got the power to 
consider. So I cant consider anything in relation to Mr and Miss Js complaint about the 
impact on them or require Mortgage Express to provide any compensation for that. I can 
only look at the impact of Mortgage Expresss actions on the estate of Mr C.
Interest charges
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the mortgage which have been provided by 
Mortgage Express. Whilst Mr and Miss J have said that they personally were not a party to 
these terms, as set out above they are dealing with the matter on behalf of the estate of Mr 
C and so I am satisfied that the terms still apply.
The terms and conditions required Mr C to agree to repay the mortgage with interest by 
monthly repayments over the mortgage term as set out in the terms of the mortgage offer. 
The terms also set out that if the borrower dies, the amount owed should be paid 
immediately. If this occurs and there has been full compliance with all the obligations under 
the mortgage, there would be no obligation to pay any early repayment charge which may 
otherwise have been due under the terms of the mortgage offer. 
As the debt remained with Mr Cs estate following his death, Im satisfied that Mortgage 
Express was entitled to continue to charge interest under the terms of the agreement. I also 
think it was reasonable of Mortgage Express to give Mr and Miss J 12 months (with the 
potential for this to be extended in mitigating circumstances) in order for them to arrange the 
sale of the property and redeem the mortgage. Whilst I can appreciate that this was a 
difficult time for Mr and Miss J and that some of Mr Cs other creditors may have agreed to 
freeze interest, the obligations on the estate of Mr C to pay the mortgage in accordance with 
the terms still remained. In light of this, I dont think Mortgage Express has acted unfairly by 
not agreeing to freeze the interest on Mr Cs mortgage account whilst Mr and Miss J were in 
the process of trying to sell the property. 
Arrears letters and fees
I can see that Mortgage Express sent Mr and Miss J arrears letters every month from August 
2020, when the first repayment was missed. These provided a statement of the balance and 
set out that a fee of £40 a month may be charged whilst in arrears.
Whilst I can appreciate that receiving these may have been upsetting for Mr and Miss J, I am 
satisfied that Mortgage Express sent these as part of its obligations and in order to keep Mr 
and Miss J  as executors of Mr Cs estate  up to date with the current situation with Mr Cs 
mortgage. 
Ive looked at the letters sent at the end of every month since September 2020 and, whilst 
they do show the amount of the arrears, they also say that You do not need to take any 
action in response to this letter as it is provided for your information only. I am therefore 
satisfied that these letters werent pestering Mr and Miss J for payments in respect of the 
outstanding amounts. Mr and Miss J werent personally liable for making the payments, and I 
dont find that Mortgage Express suggested that they were.
Whilst the letters also say that a fee may be charged while the account remains in arrears, Mortgage Express agreed not to charge these fees until January 2021 whilst the sale of the 
property was being arranged and I can see from the arrears statements that no fees were in 
fact charged in respect of the arrears.
Delay in sending terms and Mr Js address on Mr Cs credit file
I can see that there was a delay in Mortgage Express sending the terms and conditions 
following Mr and Miss Js request for these. I also note that Mr Js address was added to Mr 
Cs credit file in error.
It is my view that, although these issues had an impact on Mr and Miss J personally, I dont 
think they affected the estate of Mr C. So for the reasons set out above, I cant consider 
them any further. However, I do note that Mortgage Express provided the terms and 
conditions following some delay and apologised and sought to rectify the issue in relation to 
Mr Js name appearing on Mr Cs credit file. It also compensated Mr and Miss J in the sum of 
£200 for any distress and inconvenience caused, which I think was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Miss J, but I can't say that 
Mortgage Express has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case and I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require 
Mortgage Express to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman