DRN-4343562
The complaint
Ms S complains about how Medicash Health Benefits Limited dealt with her claim against 
her employers group healthcare cash plan.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Ms S has the benefit of a Medicash cash plan via her employer.       
On 30 January 2023, Ms S had dental treatment. Another insurer reimbursed part of the 
cost of that treatment. On 3 March 2023, Ms S claimed from Medicash her £25 
contribution towards the dental treatment in January 2023. 
On 8 March 2023, Medicash told Ms S that it required more information from her. On      
9 March 2023, Ms S phoned Medicash. Ill refer to that conversation in more detail 
below. On 14 March 2023, Medicash agreed to process Ms S claim and apologised for 
the standard of the phone call on 9 March 2023. 
Ms S says that Medicash declined her claim as it required two documents, but its system 
only allowed the submission of one document. When she contacted Medicash by phone, 
Ms S said that the adviser was rude to her and hung up on her. Ms S says that she 
spent hours on the phone with Medicash and was distressed about how she was spoken 
to. She says that she incurred overdraft fees. Ms S wants compensation and for 
Medicash to fix the issue with its claims process. 
In response to Ms S complaint, Medicash explained why it had asked for more 
information and agreed to process her claim. Medicash apologised for the customer 
service Ms S received. It said that its app will permit the submission of multiple images 
but only one pdf document for each claim. It gave Ms S details of alternative ways to 
send information. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that Medicash had 
been reasonably clear in telling Ms S what she needed to provide to make her claim. 
The investigator didnt think that Medicash had delayed in dealing with Ms S claim. She 
thought that Medicash had acted reasonably in apologising for the service Ms S received 
during the phone call. 
Ms S didnt agree with the investigator. She said, in summary, that she made multiple 
calls to Medicash, incurred interest charges and was highly distressed in relation to this 
matter. Ms S was upset that it wasnt clear how to make a claim and that Medicash 
hadnt fixed its system.
The investigator considered what Ms S said but didnt change her view. Ms S asked that 
an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Ms S has very strong feelings about this matter. I trust that she wont take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issue, that is whether 
Medicash acted fairly and reasonably in its handling of her claim.   
 
As the investigator explained, were not the regulator of financial businesses and we dont 
direct them in relation to operational matters. So, I dont comment on Medicashs claims 
system generally, but I can look at how it handled Ms S claim. 
Ive listened to the recordings of the phone calls provided by Medicash and read all thats 
been provided. I have a good understanding of Ms S points and so I dont need to speak 
with her for the fair resolution of this complaint and its rare that this is necessary. 
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions, the relevant parts of which say as follows:
5. CLAIMS
[]
5.2 You must give us the information or proof we need to support your claim, as explained 
in Sections 5 and 10. We will not be able to pay your claim if you do not have enough 
supporting evidence. []
5.6 All receipts must be fully paid originals and should show:
i the name, address and qualifications of the practitioner who provided your 
treatment;
ii the date of the treatment;
iii the name and address of the person who received the treatment; and
iv a breakdown and description of the treatment.
[]
 
has Medicash acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Medicash has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I uphold Ms S 
complaint and Ill explain why: 
An insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms 
and conditions. The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under one 
of the agreed areas of cover within the policy.
The terms and conditions of the plan provide that Medicash requires certain 
information in support of a claim. I dont think that Medicash acted unreasonably in 
declining Ms S claim initially, as the documentation she provided didnt show what 
Medicash needed to see in order to validate her claim. 
Ms S says that shes made multiple calls to Medicash. Weve asked Medicash to 
search its call logs. Its found two calls from Ms S phone number  both on                
9 March 2023. One call is for over 27 minutes and the other is over 2 minutes. Ive 
listened to both calls. 
I can see why Ms S was upset during and after the longer of the two phone calls. The 
tone of the call is unfortunate. And I think that Medicash and Ms S may have been 
speaking at cross purposes about what it was and wasnt possible to upload with a claim. It would have been helpful if Medicash had explained in that phone call that 
whilst the system only permits one pdf, further documents can be sent by e-mail. 
Thats the explanation it gave in its final response to Ms S on 14 March 2023. 
In its final response on 14 March 2023, Medicash agreed that the explanation it gave 
to Ms S during the longer phone call on 9 March 2023 was unclear and confusing 
and that the adviser spoke over Ms S several times and came across as rude. It 
hasnt disputed Ms S claim that the adviser hung up on her. That was after Ms S 
said that the adviser was useless in dealing with the claim. Nevertheless, I dont think 
that Medicash acted fairly or reasonably in terminating Ms S call abruptly without an 
explanation of why it was doing so. Whilst I acknowledge that Medicash apologised 
for the content of the call a few days later, I dont think thats sufficient in this case. 
Considering everything, I think a fair outcome requires compensation. I think that 
Medicash should pay Ms S compensation of £50 in relation to her distress and 
inconvenience arising out of the longer phone call on 9 March 2023. In reaching that 
view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of Ms S distress and 
inconvenience, the fact that the exchange became contentious from both sides and 
that Medicash apologised a few days later.  
Ms S says that Medicashs delay in dealing with her claim caused her to incur 
overdraft fees. I dont think that there was undue delay in dealing with the claim on 
Medicashs part. On 14 March 2023, it arranged for Ms S claim to be processed.  
Theres no basis on which I can fairly direct Medicash to reimburse Ms S overdraft 
fees.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Medicash should pay Ms S compensation of £50 in relation to her 
distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Medicash Health Benefits Limited should 
take the step Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman