DRN-4150369
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain that Fairstone Financial Management Limited failed to follow their 
instructions when arranging a new mortgage and theyve lost out as a result.
What happened
Mrs and Mr S applied for a new mortgage using Fairstone as their mortgage broker in late 
2020. They were offered two products, a two-year and five-year option. Mrs and Mr S 
explained they wanted to proceed with the five-year option and asked that the application be 
completed on this basis.
Fairstone submitted the application but it selected the two-year option in error, so when the 
offer was returned it was not what Mrs and Mr S had asked for. They requested that 
Fairstone amend the application to what they had initially requested but say they were told 
the lender couldnt offer a five-year mortgage on the basis of affordability. The adviser from 
Fairstone recommended they accept the two-year option and they say this was accepted as 
they didnt believe they had any other options as no other lenders were presented to them 
which offered a five-year term.
As Mrs and Mr Ss mortgage term was coming to an end in 2022 and they were able to look 
at new rates, Fairstone contacted them to see if they wanted it to assist with doing this. At 
this point Mrs and Mr S raised a complaint about Fairstone failing to follow their instructions 
when the mortgage was first taken out. They explained they were now seeing an increase in 
what they were paying for their mortgage as interest rates had risen considerably since their 
application in 2020.
Fairstone looked at Mrs and Mr Ss complaint and agreed it had made a mistake when it 
hadnt submitted the application for a 5-year fixed rate when it first put this through. It set out 
its calculations on what it considered the loss to be now to Mrs and Mr S. It felt over the 
course of the five years that they would have been on a fixed rate, Mrs and Mr S would have 
paid in total, £103,392.56 with their repayments. Instead, based on them moving to a higher 
rate at the end of the two-year term, theyll pay £110,282.40. This means an additional 
£6,889.84 will be paid over the same period.
Fairstone didnt offer to refund the total difference. It felt despite there being an error made 
by it when the mortgage was arranged, Mrs and Mr S were aware of the product they were 
taking and agreed to this despite having highlighted they wanted to take the five-year rate. 
So it didnt think it needed to refund everything. Instead, it offered to pay £5000.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and felt Fairstone needed to do more. As it was not 
in dispute that it had made an error when it failed to follow the instruction of Mrs and Mr S 
with their mortgage, he felt it was fair that Fairstone pay the total difference in payments to 
Mr and Mrs S. He also recognised that when interest rates started to increase in 2022, Mrs 
and Mr S were caused distress as they worried about their future repayment costs and 
theyd had the inconvenience of needing to raise the complaint with Fairstone to put right the 
error. For this he recommended Fairstone pay an additional £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience.
Fairstone accepted that it should make a payment for the distress and inconvenience but it 
didnt accept that it should increase the refund amount. It explained that it believed Mrs and 
Mr S had sufficient time between their mortgage offer being provided and their purchase 
completing, to explore other options. But they failed to do this and accepted the two-year 
rate. As a result they felt their offer to put things right was fair.  
Mrs and Mr S felt the award for distress and inconvenience was too low. They initially 
accepted this with a view to move on but when Fairstone failed to accept our investigators 
view, they explained why they felt this should be increased. They said huge amounts of 
distress and anxiety had been caused when interest rates started to increase and they 
worried about the cost of their mortgage and what this would be. This impacted their day to 
day lives and they needed to spend a great deal of time and inconvenience raising this 
complaint. They feel a payment between £750 and £1500 would be more appropriate for 
this.
Mrs and Mr S also explained they expected to complete their purchase within a month of the 
mortgage offer. Delays with the seller increased this timescale but ultimately, they didnt feel 
they had time to shop around and believed they had no other options when Fairstone had 
failed to provide them with any confirmation that another product was available after it had 
said the five years had failed on affordability. 
Because both Mrs and Mr S and Fairstone havent agreed with our investigator, the 
complaint has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
this will fall short of what Mrs and Mr S are hoping for when looking at the distress and 
inconvenience, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs and Mr S have provided a great deal of information about this complaint and I thank 
them for this. While I may not comment on everything theyve said, Ive taken everything into 
account when thinking about what is a fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Fairstone made an error with the application and it is right that it 
takes steps to put Mrs and Mr S in the position they would have been in had this not 
happened.
Its calculations to decide what this position would have been are a fair way to 
determine the loss and I see no reason why it should not refund the difference in 
what Mrs and Mr S would have paid and what they will pay but for the error. 
Mrs and Mr S have paid another product fee when taking out their most recent 
mortgage and this is within the five-year period. I dont think it is fair to add this to the 
refund as, regardless of the end date of their mortgage, they would always have 
likely paid a product fee with any new deal beyond the five-year period. And their 
current product takes them beyond this. 
When things go wrong there is always an element of distress and inconvenience and 
I accept that this will have been added to with the turbulent market conditions over 
the last 12-18 months. I think this will have had an impact on Mrs and Mr S. Mrs and Mr S havent disputed that they were aware the mortgage wasnt what they 
asked for when they made their application, but I accept why they felt it was right to 
continue with this as a number of other factors at the time meant being able to 
purchase their home was their main priority. And Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that Fairstone explained there was another five-year option available to them at the 
time.
When rates started to increase it would have been a worrying time but they were 
aware a mistake had been made. I think Mrs and Mr S could have complained 
sooner and sought reassurance that they would be put in the position they should 
have been in.
Overall, Im satisfied that the award recommended by our investigator is fair. I 
appreciate there is a clear link to the error made and the distress Mrs and Mr S felt 
but I think it is reasonable that they could have mitigated this by raising their 
concerns sooner.
Putting things right
Fairstone should do the following to put things right:
- Pay Mrs and Mr S £6,889.84, representing the difference in what they will now pay 
for the first five years of their mortgage when compared to what they would have paid 
had a five-year product been applied for as it should have been. 
- Pay Mrs and Mr S an additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman