DRN-3944017
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the way her pet insurer, Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle), 
dealt with a claim she made on her policy after her dog got ill. 
Pinnacle is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Throughout the claim Miss S was 
dealing with a different company who acts as Pinnacles agent. As Pinnacle has accepted it 
is accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to Pinnacle 
includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
Miss S took her dog to the vet on 16 November after she noticed he had a lump. She opted 
for him to have an operation so that the lump would be removed and wanted to make a claim 
for Pinnacle to cover the costs before the operation went ahead.
 
Miss S called Pinnacle to say she was giving it permission to speak to the vet so the claim 
could be progressed. Pinnacle told her that it can discuss claims directly with the vet as long 
as they have her policy details. Pinnacle told Miss S it couldnt confirm cover over the phone 
but asked her to submit her claim via its portal so that a link could be sent to the vet so they 
could fill in the relevant details.
 
Two days later Miss S got in contact with Pinnacle to say that the vet told her they were 
waiting for Pinnacle to authorise the claim. Pinnacle told Miss S that it was still waiting for the 
vet to submit details of the claim. 
On 21 November, after not having received confirmation that her claim had been approved, 
Miss S decided to proceed with the operation. She paid for it herself and made a claim to 
Pinnacle.
 
Miss S was unhappy with Pinnacle and complained. She said it wasnt communicating well 
with the vet who told her they had submitted everything to Pinnacle and that all they were 
waiting for was a yes or no from it. Pinnacle told Miss S that it was still waiting for details 
from the vet. 
Pinnacle didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint and said that it wasnt responsible for any delays 
and hadnt caused any confusion. Pinnacle said Miss S submitted an ordinary claim - where 
the consumer asks to be reimbursed for treatment that already took place - and not a 
pre-authorisation claim. It said it couldnt proceed to assess the claim without the vet 
returning the completed claim form alongside the pets medical records. It added that it was 
the vets decision not to accept a direct claim (i.e. it didnt agree to go ahead with the 
procedure first and then wait for payment from Pinnacle) and this was outside its control. 
Miss S didnt agree and complained to us. She said she had to rely on her overdraft to pay 
for the vets bill which came to £1,311.19 and as a result of this she had incurred additional 
charges/fees of around £700 which she wanted Pinnacle to reimburse her for. In addition to 
the interest charged for her using her overdraft she said she was in constant risk of her other 
bills not being paid. She said it had also caused her a significant amount of distress and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time. And her dog was at risk of having to wait months 
so that Pinnacle could make a decision. She said she wanted an apology to her and her dog 
for Pinnacles lack of competence. And to be reimbursed for the vets bill and the additional 
fees she incurred. 
Whilst the complaint was with us Miss S confirmed that she had been reimbursed for the 
vets bill. Pinnacle confirmed that it received the completed claim form from the vet on 30 
November and reimbursed Miss S on 6 December. She said she was nevertheless still in 
debt and incurred fees of £798.03 because she had to use her card to pay her bills whilst 
she was in her overdraft. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
After listening to a number of conversations between Miss S, Pinnacle and the vet she didnt 
think any confusion was caused by Pinnacle and agreed that it couldnt progress the claim 
without the vet completing the claim form which wasnt done until 30 November. 
Miss S didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She said in its final response 
Pinnacle got various dates wrong to make her look bad. She said she only agreed to pay the 
claim herself because Pinnacle wasnt prepared to. 
Our Investigator asked Pinnacle if it had any further calls to provide and also to explain what 
the process would have been had a pre-authorisation claim been made. Pinnacle provided a 
few more calls and said if a pre-authorisation had been requested by Miss S the vet would 
have needed to complete a pre-authorisation form and send it along with the pets complete 
medical history. If the claim was accepted, then an invoice would have been provided via the 
vet for the claim to be paid. It said it would not have accepted any claim over the phone. It 
added that as soon as the pre-authorisation was accepted Miss S would have been advised 
that Pinnacle would still need a completed claim form and an itemised invoice in order to pay 
the claim. After listening to the additional calls our Investigator maintained her view.
Miss S reiterated that she wanted an Ombudsmans decision. She said that she made a 
number of requests to Pinnacle (presumably meaning that she had asked for a 
pre-authorisation) and was waiting for it to say yes or no. She added that she had made it 
clear that this claim did not relate to a pre-existing condition nor did it happen within the 
initial 14 days  something that would be excluded under the policy. She said Pinnacle was 
giving her and the vet conflicting information and added that Pinnacle had been 
unprofessional and had laughed at her. She also said it was never explained to her why a 
direct claim wasnt possible. 
Our Investigator asked Pinnacle one more time if we had been provided with all the relevant 
calls. She was provided with three more calls between Miss S and Pinnacle but they didnt 
change her view either. She made Miss S aware of this before I issued my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided that this is not a complaint I will be upholding.
 
Id like to start by saying that I was very sorry to hear about the stressful time Miss S and her 
dog, M, went through. I was, nevertheless, happy to note that Ms operation was successful 
and that he was recovering well. Like our Investigator, I have listened to a number of the conversations Miss S had with 
Pinnacle and also a number of the conversations between Pinnacle and the vet. I will go 
through them in as much detail as I possibly can, whilst bearing in mind that we are meant to 
deal with complaints with minimum formality and that our decisions should be as brief and to 
the point as possible. But I think it is important that Miss S understands why I have arrived at 
my decision.
The calls
Miss S called Pinnacle on 16 November to give it permission to speak to the vet who wanted 
to know whether the claim would be authorised. Pinnacle told her that the vet could call 
without requiring her authority but that she would also need to submit a claim via its portal. 
Pinnacle said it wouldnt guarantee claims over the phone but confirmed that the policy had 
no exclusions other than the fact that pre-existing conditions and claims within the first 14 
days of the policy starting were excluded. Miss S said this was in relation to a lump and not a 
pre-existing condition.
On 18 November the vet called Pinnacle to carry out a policy check. They asked questions 
about exclusions, the type of policy it was, the applicable excess etc. Pinnacle said there 
were no exclusions, but it would confirm this once it got the medical history. The vet asked if 
Pinnacle accepts pre-authorisation checks. Pinnacle said it did, but this would initially have 
to come from the consumer, and it would depend why a pre-authorisation was necessary, 
including whether the treatment wasnt affordable etc.
Miss S called Pinnacle again on 18 November to enquire about the status of her claim. She 
said the vet had told her that it had done what it had to do and that it was waiting for a yes 
or no from Pinnacle. She said the vet wouldnt book M in for an operation in the meantime. 
Pinnacle said it hadnt received anything from the vet. It said it sounded like the vet was 
asking for a pre-authorisation whereby Pinnacle would have to confirm in advance whether it 
would cover the claim or not. It asked Miss S whether shed asked for a pre-authorisation 
and she said she had but it later transpired that she had made a normal claim. Pinnacles 
claims department then said that it would consider a pre-authorisation if the vet provided 
details of the treatment M already had i.e. the initial consultation. Miss S queried this as she 
said the cost of the consultation was below her excess. Pinnacle agreed but it said if it was 
able to confirm it would cover the consultation it follows that it would cover the claim. It 
added that it would still need to check Ms medical records and that any authorisation 
wouldnt be immediate. Miss S asked how long this would take but Pinnacle said it would 
need to wait to hear from the vet first and it would normally take three to five days to 
process. Miss S said M needed immediate care but Pinnacle reconfirmed that it would 
always have to carry out checks before providing any authorisation.
 
Pinnacles claims department called Miss S on the same day. Miss S reiterated that the vet 
was asking to hear back from Pinnacle about whether or not to proceed. Pinnacle said it sent 
a link to its claim form to the vet on 17 November (the day before this conversation) but had 
heard nothing back. Miss S said the vet told her it had sent Pinnacle the file it had requested. 
Pinnacle checked its systems while Miss S was still on the line and said nothing had been 
received. It said it would call the vet the same day to confirm it didnt have Ms medical 
records. It said it had also set a calendar reminder to call Miss S on Monday (as the 18 
November was a Friday) to update her. It asked her if she asked for a pre-authorisation or a 
claim and she said she did what had been asked of her but it seemed that wasnt correct. 
Pinnacle told us that it tried calling the vet the same day but the line got disconnected.
On 21 November Miss S called Pinnacle and said she was proceeding with the operation as 
she couldnt wait any longer- for the health of her pet. Miss S said either Pinnacle or the vet 
were lying to her as the vet told her it had sent everything to Pinnacle and it was saying it 
hadnt received anything. Pinnacle raised a complaint for Miss S.The complaints team from Pinnacle called the vet on the same day. It asked if the treatment 
had gone ahead and the vet confirmed that it was going ahead the same day and that the 
owner (Miss S) had confirmed she would pay for it and then claim the cost back from 
Pinnacle. Pinnacle said Miss S was unhappy it was taking so long for the claim to progress 
and that it had suggested that she puts a claim in for the consultation cost first to see if the 
condition would be accepted. It said it had not received anything from the vet after it had 
sent the link to it. Pinnacle asked for a timescale as to when the vet would provide details to 
it and it was told it depends and that it could take four to six weeks.
 
Pinnacle called the vet again about 20 minutes later to say that it was confused because 
Miss S had told it that the vet told her it had sent everything over. The vet said it had told 
Miss S to make an indirect claim rather than a direct one (meaning she had to pay for the 
procedure herself and then claim back from her insurer). The vet also said it had received 
the link to Pinnacles complaint form but it needed a physical copy for its paper trail. Pinnacle 
said it could email a copy over to the vet but the vet asked it to email it to Miss S so she 
could take it with her when she was picking up M that evening. Pinnacle asked the vet if it 
had told Miss S that it had sent it details of the claim. The vet said it didnt and that all they 
told Miss S was that unfortunately they couldnt do a direct claim for her so she had to pay 
first and then claim through her insurer. Pinnacle then went back to Miss S while the vet was 
on the line. 
Pinnacle then spoke to Miss S. She confirmed that M had had his treatment and she was 
going to collect him from the vet that evening. Pinnacle told her that it spoke to the vet and 
they said it could take four to six weeks to provide Ms documentation. Miss S said the vet 
and Pinnacle didnt seem to be speaking to each other and wanted to know how long it 
would take for her to be reimbursed. Pinnacle said it needed the vet to complete the claim 
form. Miss S repeated that the vet had told her that it had sent it over and that she wanted 
the matter resolved the same day and that having to wait four to six weeks wasnt good 
enough. Pinnacle said that the vet told it that they never advised Miss S they had sent the 
claim form back but they told her to make an indirect claim and that they needed her to 
provide a paper claim form. Pinnacle then transferred Miss S over to the vet. 
Miss S called Pinnacle back and said she had spoken to the vet who confirmed that the 
issue was nothing to do with the vet and that it was Pinnacle who had told the vet that a 
pre-authorisation had to come from Miss S. She reiterated that the vet told her everything 
had been sent to Pinnacle. Pinnacle asked when this had been done and said it was 
confused and would listen to calls between them again. Miss S asked Pinnacle if it could 
send the vet another link to the complaint form but Pinnacle said the vet had just confirmed 
they needed a paper copy. Miss S said the vet told her Pinnacle prevented them from doing 
a direct claim but Pinnacle said it was happy to do this. Miss S said she just wanted to do a 
direct claim and that the vet was also happy for this but was waiting for a yes or no from 
Pinnacle. Pinnacle said it seemed like the vet wanted to do a pre-authorisation claim for the 
consultation and although its cost was below her excess if Pinnacle had accepted the 
condition it would have accepted the full treatment. Miss S said she was confused as the vet 
told her they didnt ask for a pre-authorisation and that that was just between Miss S and 
Pinnacle. Miss S then asked if it would be possible to still go ahead with a direct claim that 
day and Pinnacle said it would see what it could do but it needed to check with its claims 
team.
Pinnacle called the vet back and said it was very confused. It said that Miss S told it the vet 
told her they were happy to do a direct claim and they were waiting for Pinnacle to say yes 
or no. The vet was surprised by this and said they had just spoken to Miss S and at no 
point did they tell her she could do a direct claim. The vet said they thought they could 
initially do a direct claim but this was rejected from their side for whatever reason. The vet continued and said they told Miss S that morning that they couldnt go ahead with a direct 
claim and that she had agreed to do an indirect one. The vet then said that there may have 
been some confusion when they discussed a pre-authorisation claim with Miss S and told 
her that she had to request this herself. Pinnacle said she would have had to call and 
request this and a form would then be sent to the vet. The vet then said it would be too late 
to do a direct claim that day.
 
How Pinnacle dealt with the claim
Having listened to the calls I can understand why there was confusion between the parties. I 
think there was confusion with regards to pre-authorisations and normal claims and also as 
to whether the vet had provided Pinnacle with what it needed to proceed to authorise the 
claim. 
I think the important thing to note is that whether the claim was pre-authorised or not 
Pinnacle still needed to see Ms medical records from the vet before proceeding. I think 
Pinnacle had made that clear during the calls. And from the calls it appears that at no point 
between 16 November and 21 November did the vet provide those to Pinnacle. And this is 
something the vet accepted in its calls with Pinnacle. So Pinnacle couldnt proceed in any 
event. And I think its fairly standard and also fair and reasonable for a pet insurer to want to 
review medical records before authorising a claim. And it seems reasonable that the 
decision whether the claim was a direct or an indirect one rested with the vet as they are the 
ones who decide whether they are happy to go ahead with the treatment and get paid later. 
In this case the vet decided against a direct claim.
 
Miss S said she wanted to make a direct claim as her pet was in pain and she was 
concerned about the risk of the lump becoming malignant. I can completely understand that. 
And I also completely understand why she went ahead with the procedure when she did. 
Miss S said it wasnt acceptable to have to wait weeks for a claim to be authorised 
particularly as this was an emergency. Again, I completely understand where she is coming 
from. But I think this was a matter for her vet and not for Pinnacle. As I said above I think it is 
reasonable for Pinnacle to want to review the medical records before approving a claim. And 
it seems Pinnacle tried to assist Miss S by suggesting that she ask for a pre-authorisation for 
the consultation so things could be sped up. But I dont see how that would have been 
possible given the urgency of the situation and the fact that the vet said it could take four to 
six weeks for it to complete and return the claim form to Pinnacle. 
As I said above the vet confirmed it would have been happy initially to proceed with a direct 
claim but this was rejected at their end for whatever reason. They didnt say what this 
reason was but that is a matter for them. And as this decision isnt about the vet but about 
Pinnacle, Miss Ss insurer, I cant comment on that further. Miss S believes it was Pinnacle 
who caused the direct claim to be rejected but having listened to the conversation between 
the vet and Pinnacle that doesnt seem to be the case because the vet didnt say it needed 
anything further from Pinnacle other than a paper copy of the claim form  something it 
mentioned for the first time on 21 November. As far as I can tell Pinnacle progressed the 
matter as far as it could. And I am glad to note that once it was provided with the medical 
records it reimbursed Miss S without delay.
Miss S said Pinnacle had been unprofessional and had laughed at her. In all the 
conversations that I listened to between Miss S and Pinnacle I didnt find that its handlers 
had been unprofessional in any way. If Miss S is referring to calls between Pinnacle and the 
vet that our Investigator provided her with, again I dont think any of Pinnacles handlers had 
been unprofessional or did anything that would warrant awarding compensation for.I appreciate Miss S will be disappointed with my decision but I hope that I have been able to 
demonstrate to her that, based on the evidence available to me, I havent been able to 
conclude that Pinnacle had acted in a way that was unfair or unreasonable on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman