DRN-2973077
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with QIC Europe Ltds handling of his claim for water damage under his 
home insurance policy. 
Mr S son (also Mr S) is acting as his representative in this complaint. 
What happened
Mr S noticed a damp smell and some dampness in his kitchen cupboards in September 
2019. A plumber was called to investigate. A pin-hole sized leak was found in a hose 
connected to the washing machine, which caused a fine spray of water to escape. The 
plumber replaced the hose, which stopped the leak.
Mr S claimed to QIC for the damage caused to the kitchen. A week later a surveyor visited to 
inspect the damage. QIC then declined the claim saying this was the result of a gradually 
operating cause that had occurred over some weeks.  
Mr S appealed the decision. He explained the same plumber had visited four days before the 
leak was found. The first visit was to quote for a new kitchen tap. The plumber had found no 
evidence of a leak at this time, indicating it had not occurred over some weeks. 
QIC reviewed its surveyors decision and photos, but maintained the claim was not covered 
for the same reasons. Mr S continued to dispute this decision. Another surveyor inspected 
the kitchen in March 2020 and again the decision to decline was maintained.
Mr S appealed the decision again. He asked for a final decision letter to be sent regarding 
his complaint in June 2020. This was not provided. Mr S continued to chase for a response. 
In October 2020 QIC conducted a further review. This time it confirmed the claim would be 
covered. The work required to repair the damaged kitchen was assessed during a further 
visit in November. QIC has since arranged for repairs to be completed. The company waived 
the £500 excess payment and provided a further £250 in compensation for the delays Mr S 
experienced. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr S complaint. He thought QIC could have accepted 
the claim far sooner and the delays in doing so caused Mr S and his family significant upset 
and inconvenience. He decided QIC should provide a further payment of £250 to 
acknowledge this. 
Both Mr S and QIC disagreed with this outcome and requested an ombudsmans review. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold Mr S complaint. I will explain my rationale for this, 
which are broadly the same reasons our investigator set out. 
The first surveyor who visited the property In October 2019 said Mr S had noticed the 
kitchen worktop separating and that it was raised at the joints. He recorded high moisture 
readings in the floor in front of the washing machine and noticed peeling of the laminate 
worktop, all along the front lip. In his report the surveyor says:
 ..even over a meter away from the source, the water has drawn completely through the 
worktops chipboard structure. There was also damage to three of the unit carcasses at the 
front lower sections and again this had drawn all the way through from the rear of the unit, 
indicating a gradually operating cause over some weeks.
The surveyor said the claim should be declined due to the direct exclusion in the policy for 
gradually operating causes and rot. 
Mr S appealed this decision and sent QIC a letter from his plumber. The letter was sent to 
QIC in January 2020.
In his letter the plumber says no work was carried out during his first visit. But that he did 
clear out the cupboard below the sink to assess the connections. At the time of his first visit 
the plumber says there were no visible signs of a water leak around this area. 
The plumber says he was asked to return four days later, at which time he found the kitchen 
cupboards had a damp look/feel to them. At this point the cupboards had been cleared out 
by Mr S and the water had been turned off at the mains. He turned the water back on and a 
leak was found within the washing machine connector hose. 
The plumber explains the spray from the leak was hitting the underside of the worktop. And 
water had penetrated behind the plinths and at the laminate flooring edge. He says this was 
clearly visible from the sink cupboard, which was not there four days earlier.  
In early March QIC responded to Mr S maintaining the claim was declined. I have seen a 
copy of the report it produced containing photos of the damage. It says, The damage seen 
and evidenced in the photos above has clearly been as a result of a gradually operating 
leak, and not a one off escape of water.  
I note there is no reference in this report to the plumbers account of events.
Another surveyor inspected the damage in March 2020. The report produced says:
The extensive damage seen has been the consequence of a gradual operating leak and 
would have been clearly visible for a long period of time notably the swollen base unit 
carcasses to the left hand of the washing machine.
Its apparent the plumbers report was considered by QIC at this time, as its report says the 
damage did not result from a one-off leak over a four-day period. Again, Mr S challenged 
QICs decision and he requested a copy of the surveyors report. 
QIC emailed in October 2020 to say its customer relations department have advised, they 
are not happy with the decline of the claim. The outcome of this was the company would 
cover the cost of the damages. QIC arranged for a further surveyor to scope out the work. 
This took place in November.
Our investigator queried the reason why QIC had decided to cover the claim, given its original decision that it wouldnt. In its response it said:
It was recognised that the decline based on the gradual operation of the leak was not 
compelling enough and in light of not only the customers age and vulnerability but also the 
service experienced during the claim, the decision was overturned and we confirmed cover. 
I have thought about whether QIC acted fairly when it made its initial decision to decline the 
claim.
Mr S first contacted QIC in early October 2019. This was approximately two weeks after the 
plumber identified the leak. The policy terms say full details of the claim must be provided 
as soon as possible after the event and always within 30 days. Im satisfied Mr S complied 
with these terms when he first made his claim.  
QIC decided there was evidence of an ongoing cause over some weeks, as opposed to a 
one-off event covered by the policy. Im not a surveyor and must rely on the expert opinion 
provided here. Based on the opinion and photos provided, I cant reasonably say that the 
decision to decline was initially unreasonable. 
However, it seems all the information QIC subsequently relied upon to make its final decision 
to accept the claim, was available when it received the plumbers letter in January 2020. QIC 
hasnt shown that any new evidence was considered, other than its customers age, 
vulnerability and the standard of service it provided.  
In considering this, I think its reasonable to say that QIC could have accepted the claim far 
earlier. The company says the decline based on the gradual operation of the leak was not 
compelling enough. My understanding is that this point is sufficient to support a reversal of 
the decline decision. Consideration of its poor service and Mr S vulnerability is not relevant 
in deciding whether the claim was covered under the policy terms.   
There were significant delays in QIC responding to Mr S correspondence. The delays 
continued throughout the period of the claim. This includes delays in responding to Mr S 
request to see the surveyors report, which he said he needed to consider legal action. There 
was also a delay from June 2020 to January 2021 in providing a final response letter to his 
complaint. 
Its fair to say QICs responses were generally slow, and in particular over the period June to 
October 2020. This has clearly impacted on the time taken for the claim to eventually be 
accepted and for repair work to be progressed. 
I have considered the impact the delay in accepting the claim, has had on Mr S and his 
family. He explains that his father is in ill health and needs to use a downstairs reception 
room as his bedroom. He explains the damage to the kitchen has meant kitchen items were 
stored on surfaces, and on the dining room table and chairs. This has impacted on the 
available space for eating and other normal uses of these areas. 
Mr S explains the kitchen worktops are warped and pose a hazard when using the kitchen, 
for example when making hot drinks. He highlights the property constantly looks messy 
because of the damage and where items are stored. I can accept that this has been 
distressing for his parents, especially given the time this claim was ongoing for.
When a claim is made in circumstances like this it will undoubtedly result in some 
inconvenience. However, in this case, given Mr S living arrangements, the level of 
inconvenience is exacerbated because of the limited reception room space available, and 
the prolonged timescales involved. I think QICs view that the kitchen was able to be used, is reasonable, based on the photos 
and surveyors reports. However, the kitchen and dining room areas, could not be used as 
they normally would, because of the need to store items elsewhere. As above, Mr S need to 
have a bedroom downstairs already limits the available space. 
I think QIC could reasonably have accepted the claim based on the information it held in 
January 2020. Because of the prolonged period taken to accept the claim and arrange work 
to be carried out, the level of distress and inconvenience Mr S and his family experienced 
has been significant.       
In addition, Mr S is not in good health and he and his wife are elderly. I accept this will have 
been a distressing time for them, given the prolonged uncertainty around whether their policy 
would cover the damage caused to their kitchen. And the issues created by the damage that 
was caused.  
In considering all of this, I think its appropriate that QIC provide compensation. I note it has 
already waived the £500 excess associated with the policy and made an additional payment 
for £250. But for the reasons I have explained I think a further payment is justified. In my 
view total compensation of £1,000 is fair, and this means QIC paying a further £250.    
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and QIC 
Europe Ltd must:
provide a further payment for £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman