DRN-2909398
The complaint
Mr H on behalf of his business C, complains about the decisions reached on his escape of 
water claim under Cs building insurance by AXA Insurance UK Plc.
What happened
C owns a flat as a leaseholder in a serviced development, which it rents out. Mr H said that 
the management company for the development negotiated a new buildings insurance policy 
and he was advised that this included a £2,500 excess for water damage. Mr H said the flat 
suffered water damage in August 2019 from an external leak which cost him £5,682.45 to fix. 
He said that despite AXAs view to the contrary, this was clearly a single incident of flooding.
Mr H said he claimed to AXA and it immediately reduced his claim to £5,201.37 by removing 
the council tax element and to £2.701.37 with the excess deducted. Mr H said this was 
further reduced to £2,397.11 by AXA disallowing various repairs. Mr H said that AXA then 
argued that the damage was caused by two separate incidents and therefore two excesses 
totalling £5,000 applied. He said this then negated the entire claim. 
Mr H said the amount of the water damage excess is unreasonable, but AXA applying this 
twice crosses a line. He said AXA justified its position on the basis of a survey undertaken in
November 2019, three months after the damage occurred, which was commissioned by the 
propertys management company. Mr H thought there was no definite evidence as to the 
cause of the damage by then.  
AXA sent its loss adjuster to review the damage and said the costs for the repairs should be 
£3,195.80, and it would consider these costs and the total for the loss of rent at £1,701.37. 
AXA said council tax isnt covered under the policy and that as there had been two separate 
water leaks two policy excesses of £2,500 would apply, totalling £5,000.
AXA reached its view about two separate escape of water incidents by carrying out a desk 
top validation of the claim. It said the first incident was due to malicious damage by a tenant 
with a tap left running resulting in damage to the carpets and lower sections of walls. The 
second incident was a leak from the flat above on 14 August 2019 with water damage 
starting at ceiling level and going down the wall. AXA said the damage has been made 
worse by the delay in repairs, as they werent carried out until December 2019. 
Mr H was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the excess is high, but C would have been 
aware of it. She said the second excess has been correctly applied as every peril is subject 
to an excess and there was an escape of water and malicious damage at the property.
Mr H disagreed, saying he wasnt aware of a leak from an upstairs flat and questioned the 
accuracy of the loss adjusters report. He said the delayed repairs, which the loss adjuster 
said meant they were much more costly, was due to him waiting for the loss adjusters 
inspection. He said AXA may have acted within the terms and conditions of the policy but 
hadnt acted fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C isnt the policyholder with AXA, that is the freehold owner of the property, but C as a 
leaseholder is a beneficiary of the policy and so I have treated C as an eligible business to 
bring a complaint to our service. 
Mr H says the amount of the policy excess is unfair and this is compounded by AXA applying 
this twice. I can see why Mr H describes the policy excess as very high. But the excess is 
part of the insurance agreement reached by the management company of the dwelling 
where Cs flat is situated on behalf of the policyholder, and so this is matter between C and 
the policyholder.
Normally, when a claim is accepted the insurer sends a loss adjuster to inspect the damage 
and determine what works are required to restore the property to its former condition. I note 
that it was the property management company that carried out a survey of the damage in 
November 2019. Mr H then carried out the repairs before AXA had the opportunity to send 
its loss adjuster. This has prejudiced AXAs position with the claim, but liability was accepted 
by AXA in any event. 
A desk top survey found evidence of an escape of water, but AXAs loss adjuster felt there 
had been two incidents of damage. This wouldnt normally pose a problem as both incidents 
are insured events. But Cs policy carries an excess for each escape of water claim of 
£2,500, meaning that AXA proposed to deduct a total of £5,000 from the value of the claim. 
This and other minor reductions of the claimed amount meant that the claim no longer viable 
to C.  
The desk top survey and a survey by a surveyor employed by a firm of building and project 
consultants for the managing agents found that the damage to Cs flat came from separate 
causes. The surveyor said the flat had, suffered minor damage and stating to the corridor 
wall. The extent of damage to apartment 4 is inconsistent with the corridor flood damage and 
the extent of mould is attributed to severe condensation and possible previous tenant mis-
use. The extent of damage we believe has been occurring over the past year as opposed to 
a recent flood.
 
The loss adjuster said the water staining starts at floor level and climbs half way up the wall. 
He and the surveyor for the managing agents thought this came from malicious damage. 
The second cause of damage appeared to be from a leak from the flat above that occurred 
in August 2019. The water damage from this event started at ceiling level and worked down 
the wall. I think the expert evidence and photos are clear that there were separate incidents 
affecting Cs flat and so I think it was fair for AXA to apply the terms of the policy in requiring 
two excess payments to be made.
The surveyor confirmed the damage worsened in both instances due to the delay in getting 
the repairs carried out. This is unfortunate as it has increased the cost of repairs. I 
sympathise with Mr H for the costs hes incurred in restoring Cs property. However, I havent 
found that AXA was to blame for the delay and so it wouldnt be fair to hold it responsible for 
the impact of the delay.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H on behalf of 
C to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman