DRN-1111438
The complaint
Miss S complains that U K Insurance Limited ("UKI") unfairly declined a claim she made 
under her car insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2019 Miss S was involved in a road traffic accident. Miss S says she was completing 
a U-turn in the road when another vehicle struck her car and drove away. Miss S contacted 
her insurer, UKI, to make a claim. It declined this in June 2019, saying results of a forensic 
inspection of the vehicle called into question Miss S' version of events. And UKI said, based 
on the available evidence, it wasn't possible for the alleged incident to have occurred as 
she'd described, if at all. So, it repudiated the claim and cancelled her policy.
Miss S complained to our service, saying UKI's decision was unfair and that it took too long 
to make its decision. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and considered 
whether UKI's decision to decline the claim for fraud was reasonable. She concluded that it 
was and didn't uphold the complaint.
The investigator said UKI had provided a forensic report that suggested at the time of the 
alleged collision, the ignition of Miss S' car was off, and the car was stationary. She said the 
report also showed the car hadn't been driven at any point since March 2019  several 
weeks before the alleged incident. And alongside other points, it said the vehicle's airbags 
were manually deployed, and not triggered following an impact. 
So, taking these points into account, the investigator said she was persuaded that UKI had 
acted fairly and reasonably by relying on its expert opinion and declining the claim as it did.
Miss S responded to say shed been stationary as she had stopped while completing a 
manoeuvre. Miss S said her car had also stalled which would explain why it was off at the 
time. And she disagreed that the car hadn't been used, saying shed continued to use it up 
until the accident happened in April 2019. She also said UKI hadn't provided any evidence to 
support its allegations, and that she hadn't been given an opportunity to provide her own 
expert report.
Our investigator took into account Miss S' comments and reconsidered the complaint but 
didn't change her mind. She said UKI had told Miss S that a forensic report had been 
completed, so she had an opportunity to provide any evidence to the contrary if she wanted 
to. And she said as Miss S hadn't provided anything further to support her claims (such as 
another expert opinion) she was satisfied UKI had acted fairly. Miss S still wasn't happy, so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll explain why. UKI declined Miss S' claim, and repudiated her policy under a fraud condition which says:
"You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We will not pay a claim that is in 
any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated. If you, any person insured under this policy or 
anyone acting on your behalf attempts to deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false 
or exaggerated claim:
your policy may be cancelled
we may reject your claim and any subsequent claims
we may keep any premium you have paid."
So to decide whether UKI has applied this condition fairly, I've considered the evidence 
provided by both parties.
Miss S has put forward her testimony of the alleged accident. Our investigator invited her to 
provide any further evidence to support this if she wanted to, but we've not received 
anything. UKI has provided a very detailed and thorough report that was completed by an 
expert in that field. The report raises a number of concerns about Miss S' version of events. I 
will not detail all of these, but rather, focus on the ones I consider most relevant.
The report concludes the ignition of the vehicle was off at the time of the crash, and that it 
hadn't been driven for several weeks prior to the crash. It also concludes the airbags that 
were alleged to have been deployed in the accident were manually pulled out. And the 
engineer commented that the damage to the vehicle wasn't in keeping with the description of 
the accident that Miss S gave.
Given the level of detail within UKI's report, the number of concerns raised, and the 
significance of each of the points raised, I'm satisfied that it was reasonable for it to rely on 
its expert's findings when reaching its decision about the claim. Taking into account the 
number of issues and complexity of concerns UKI had to investigate, I'm also persuaded that 
it handed this claim promptly, as it is required to.
It follows that I'm also satisfied UKI has acted fairly and in line with its policy terms when 
declining the claim and cancelling the policy for the reasons it has given. So, I'm not asking it 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons I'm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2019.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman