DRN-3473895
The complaint
Mr C complains that Metro Bank PLC blocked his account card whilst abroad.
What happened
Mr C says his Metro account card was blocked whilst he was in Italy in September 2021. He 
says he was able to use a different account card which cost him money. He also says he 
wasted time trying to sort matters out and would like compensation.
Metro says it blocked Mr Cs account card on 3 October 2021 following its systems having 
security concerns about an attempted transaction. It says it sent Mr C a text message about 
the payment and he contacted it on 9 October 2021 when it removed the block. Metro says 
its entitled in line with account terms and conditions to take such steps.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Metro was entitled to restrict account use when it had security concerns and that it 
removed the block when Mr C called it. The investigator thought Mr C had access to another 
account and didnt call Metro immediately.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says he has the Metro account to use abroad. He 
questions the point of the account if he cant use it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I am sure Mr C appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies 
and that they must have fraud measures in place to protect its and its customers money. I 
accept that on occasions legitimate transactions can be subject to those measure which I 
accept causes customers inconvenience. But I dont think that it follows that Metro has made 
mistake or acted unfairly.
I can see that Mr C attempted to make a payment on 3 October 2021 and that Metro 
immediately sent him a text message about it. Im satisfied that Metro is entitled in line with 
agreed account terms and conditions to block a payment in these circumstances and so 
didnt make a mistake. I also think that Mr C could have contacted Metro before 9 October 
2021 which would have meant the block could have been removed far sooner. I dont think 
the inconvenience was significant and have made clear Metro was entitled to do so. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Metro didnt make a mistake or act unfairly but acted in line with 
agreed account terms and conditions. It follows that I cant fairly order Metro to pay the 
compensation Mr C would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman