DRN-1732392
 
The complaint
Mr M complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Evergreen 
Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk. He says he was lent to irresponsibly 
and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to MONEYBOAT.
What happened
We now know that Mr M took out 3 short-term loans from MONEYBOAT between July 2017 
and February 2018. Ive enclosed a summary of his borrowing with MONEYBOAT, based on 
the information it provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
MONEYBOAT didnt think it had done anything wrong. However, one of adjudicators looked 
into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld. The complaint has come to me 
for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Ms complaint.
MONEYBOAT needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
M could repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain other factors might point to the fact 
that MONEYBOAT should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, MONEYBOAT was required to 
establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr M could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
I consider this case to be relatively straightforward. 
It seems MONEYBOATs own financial checks clearly showed Mr M was already in a 
financially vulnerable situation when he took out these loans. For example, its credit 
searches at the point of the first loan, showed that Mr M was indebted to other short-term 
lenders. There was also evidence returned on the searches of recent delinquent and 
defaulted accounts in the last 12 months and one recent event where court proceedings may 
have been started. There was also substantial evidence he was opening other, new credit 
facilities elsewhere. This general theme  one of financial difficulty - was present at the 
points of loan numbers 2 and 3 also.
It seems to me that MONEYBOATs explanation about its loans being granted via an 
automated system, and the lending only having been in the early stages, completely misses 
the point. The searches carried out and returned to MONEYBOAT clearly showed Mr M was 
having difficulty managing money and experiencing hardship. Even the most cursory and 
basic look at his situation would have obviously pointed strongly to that fact. 
The purpose of carrying out financial searches is to establish whether lending is sustainable. 
And naturally, businesses carry out the types of searches they each deem necessary to 
different situations. But it seems to me that here, having carried them out, MONEYBOAT 
simply failed to take any notice of the information the searches had returned. 
In short, having asked for important background information, I dont think its reasonable to 
then take no account of what it says.
We know that people who have difficulty in managing money in this way are often in a 
vulnerable situation and much less likely to be able to sustainably pay off lending of this 
nature. The lending was irresponsible, and in my view contributed to the hardship Mr M says 
he endured. He appears to have been caught in a spiral of high cost short-term lending 
which was avoidable had MONEYBOAT exercised the basic diligence it ought to have done. 
Im therefore upholding the complaint.Putting things right
MONEYBOAT needs to:
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans 1 - 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loans 1 - 
3;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MONEYBOAT to take off tax from this interest. MONEYBOAT must give Mr M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Evergreen Finance London Limited, 
trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk. is directed to put things right for Mr M as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Appendix
Loan Taken Out Repaid Amount Instalments
1 18/07/2017 29/09/2017 £200.00 3
2 16/10/2017 31/01/2018 £300.00 4
3 06/02/2018 19/11/2018 £400.00 6
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman