DRN-3907646
The complaint
Mr K complains that Capital One (Europe) plc lent to him irresponsibly when it approved two 
credit cards.
What happened
Mr K applied for a credit card with Capital One in July 2021. Capital One approved the 
application and gave Mr K a credit card with a credit limit of £200.
Mr K applied for a second credit card in April 2022. Capital One approved the application 
and gave Mr K a credit card with a credit limit of £400.
Mr K complained that Capital One had lent irresponsibly. He says he should never have 
been given credit facilities because of his mental health and gambling issues.
Our investigator looked at both credit cards but didnt think Capital One had lent 
irresponsibly.
Mr K didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that Capital One had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr K could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will depend on various factors, 
including the cost of the credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments and the 
consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and 
proportionate. 
Ive looked at the information gathered by Capital One when it carried out these checks.
Capital One Mastercard
Mr K stated in his application that he had an annual income of around £22,000 gross. He 
stated that he was living with his parents and that his housing costs were £300 per month.
Capital One used this information, as well as other information it obtained from Mr Ks credit 
report, to assess whether the credit was affordable for Mr K.
The credit search carried out by Capital One shows that Mr K had another credit card with a 
balance of £277. He also had a mail order account with a balance of £100. The mail order 
account was the subject of a payment plan.
Ive thought about whether the payment plan shouldve alerted Capital One to the possibility 
that Mr K was experiencing financial difficulties. However, I dont think the payment plan of 
itself, when considered in the context of all the other financial information, was a reason for 
Capital One to decline the application for the credit card. This is because the mail order 
account had a low credit limit and would be seen as low risk, because the balance could be 
repaid within a reasonable timescale.
The credit search showed that Mr K had previously defaulted on an account. However, this 
default was over 12 months prior to the application for the credit card, so I dont think this 
was a reason for Capital One to decline the application.
Looking at all the financial information gathered by Capital One, and having regard to the low 
credit limit on the credit card, Im satisfied that the checks carried out by Capital One were 
reasonable and proportionate, and that the decision to approve the application for the credit 
card was fair. I havent seen anything in the information which wouldve given Capital One 
any cause for concern or warranted further checks. The information showed that the loan 
was likely to be affordable for Mr K.
Post Office Credit Card
Mr K stated in his application that he had an annual income of around £22,000 gross and 
that his housing costs were £300 per month.
The credit search carried out by Capital One shows that Mr K had two other credit cards. 
One had a balance of £187 and the other had a balance of £233.  Neither of the accounts 
had any adverse information reported about them. The credit search didnt show any 
payments plans, defaults or county court judgments.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Capital One carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before approving the application. Theres nothing in the information gathered by 
Capital One to suggest that the credit wasnt affordable for Mr K. There was no adverse 
information on Mr Ks credit file which wouldve given Capital One cause to think that he 
might be in financial difficulties. Mr K did have some other financial commitments but having 
taken these into account, this left sufficient disposable monthly income to repay the credit 
card, even if all of the available credit limit was utilised.
Ive taken into account what Mr K has said about his mental health and gambling issues. Im 
sorry to hear about these circumstances. However, I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Capital One was made aware of these issues at the time the applications for credit were 
made. So I cant fairly say that Capital One knew or ought to have known about these 
issues.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Capital One carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
and that the decision to lend was fair. It follows that I dont think Capital One lent 
irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman