DRN-3094611
Complaint
Mr B says that Santander UK Plc (trading as Santander) unfairly added overdraft charges 
to his overdraft.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. He didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Mr B says Santander charged him too much. Hes not been specific over why he thinks this 
is the case. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered 
whether the various amounts Santander charged Mr B over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for 
me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Santanders charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr B if it applied these interest, fees and charges to her 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where Santander didnt treat Mr B fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Santander continued 
charging Mr B even though it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised 
this. Having thought about everything, I dont think that Santander treated Mr B unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. 
Ive looked through Mr Bs statements throughout the period concerned I cant see that 
Santander ought to have steps to remove the facility from Mr B and default the account.     
Mr B may argue his use of his overdraft was in itself an indication that he was struggling. But 
the account regularly received funds and for the vast majority of the time it had a credit 
balance, which meant that it wasnt unreasonable for Santander to conclude there was a 
reasonable prospect of the overdraft sustainably being repaid. 
And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr B expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions being made from the account. So I cant reasonably say that it 
was the overdraft charges that were responsible for Mr Bs overdraft balance here. 
I accept that all of these things in themselves (or even taken together) dont mean that Mr B 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in Mr Bs transactions in 
themselves which ought to have prompted Santander to have realised this. So, in these 
circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to proceed with the 
interest, fees and charges it added. And I dont think Santander unfairly charged Mr B in 
circumstances where it ought to have realised that he may have been experiencing financial 
difficulty.
I understand that Mr Bs financial circumstances have taken a turn for the worse more 
recently and Im sorry to hear about this. However, hes asked us to consider whether the 
historic charges on his account were applied unfairly. Having considered everything, I dont 
think that they were and so Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I realise that 
this will be very disappointing for Mr B  especially in mind hes current situation. But I hope 
that hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman