DRN-2826429
Complaint
Mr B complains that Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited (Arnold Clark), trading as 
Arnold Clark, mis-sold him two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies in 
September 2004 and December 2006. 
Mr B says Arnold Clark didnt make him aware that he had a choice about taking out the 
policies, he didnt need them and also they werent properly explained to him. 
What happened
Mr B took out the PPI to with car finance hed arranged help him purchase a car. The 2004 
policy cost around £11 per month and covered Mr Bs loan repayments of £158 if he lost his 
job or couldnt work because of an accident or sickness. It also included life cover. The 2006 
policy cost around £14 per month and covered  Mr Bs loan repayments of £206. This policy 
also provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment plus life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Because Mr B disagreed the complaint has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think Arnold Clark advised Mr B to take out the 
policies. This means Arnold Clark only had to give Mr B enough information about the 
policies so that he could make an informed decision about whether he wanted to take out 
PPI cover. Arnold Clark didnt have to make sure the policies were right for Mr B  that 
was a decision he had to make for himself.
Ive considered what Mr B has told us about how Arnold Clark sold him the policies. Ive also 
looked at the evidence Arnold Clark has given us. This includes Mr Bs PPI application 
forms, direct debit forms, policy summaries and policy documents.
Looking first at the September 2004 PPI sale, I can see that Mr B completed a stand-alone 
PPI application form that contained a brief description of the policy and set out the monthly 
cost. Mr B signed and dated this form. If he didnt want the policy, it was open to him to 
have declined by signing a separate section of the form. Mr B then completed a direct 
debit form. It looks like the confirmation of having taken out the PPI, together with policy 
details, was then sent to him under cover of a welcome letter. 
In December 2006, Mr B signed a similar PPI application form which again included basic 
information about the cover and its cost. This form also had a separate section where Mr B 
could have signed to show he didnt want the cover. Mr B then signed another direct debit 
form and it looks like details of the policy were then sent to him by way of a welcome letter 
in the same way as before. 
Based on what Ive seen from each sale, I think its likely that Mr B was aware he had a 
choice about whether to buy the policies and chose to go ahead and buy them. 
Mr B told us he wasnt entitled to any benefits from his employer if he was unable to work. 
Ive taken this into account. The policies wouldve covered Mr Bs loan repayments for up 
to 12 months per claim for a sickness or accident claim. Each policy would also have paid 
out in addition to any other financial resources Mr B may have had access to. The policies 
would have also paid his loan repayments for up to 12 months per claim if hed lost his job 
 leaving any redundancy money he might have received free for other commitments. And 
whilst Mr B has told us that he could have relied on family members for help, thats 
something that cant always be guaranteed to be available. So overall, I think the policies 
gave Mr B potentially useful benefits.
I think its fair to say Arnold Clark couldve given Mr B clearer information about how 
each policy worked at the time of each sale. But I dont think that would have affected his 
decision about taking out the cover. Each of the PPI application forms showed the 
monthly cost of the policies. So, I think Mr B wouldve had a good idea about how much 
the insurance was going to cost before he agreed to take it out. And he could have 
cancelled them at no further cost if hed decided he didnt want them anymore.
In summary, I cant be sure that Arnold Clark did everything it needed to do when it sold 
the policies to Mr B, but, even if there were failings in this regard, I dont think Mr B was 
disadvantaged by them. 
While I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr B, I do not think that Arnold Clark 
mis-sold him the policies and so I wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman