DRN-3318679
The complaint
Miss W complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim under her
roadside assistance policy.
What happened
Whilst she was driving Miss Ws vehicle broke down and she contacted UKI. When the
technician arrived, she says no attempt was made to fix the problem. All that happened was
for a recovery of the vehicle to be arranged. Miss W says her partner had to drive to collect
her. He suffers from poor health and this caused distress and upset.
Miss W says UKI breached data protection rules by speaking to her partner regarding her
policy.
She says she was unaware of an excess that applied to her policy. And the business
wouldnt allow the recovery of her vehicle to be covered by her partners policy, where no
excess charge applied. Miss W says it also initially failed to locate her partners policy.
UKI says its policy covers the vehicle. When it spoke to Miss Ws partner it did so in line with
the policy terms. These allow assistance to be provided to anyone who is with the vehicle. It
says for Miss Ws partner to try using his policy in these circumstances, to avoid paying an
excess charge, is a misuse of the cover. It confirms Miss Ws policy has a £40 excess.
UKI apologised that no attempt was made to repair Miss Ws vehicle. It says some confusion
may have occurred, as this was a second attempt to record a claim. And this may be why
the job was sent as a recovery. It says a non-start fault may have been fixable with a
temporary repair. But adds that it would always advise to get the root cause of electrical
faults checked at a workshop. It paid Miss W £40 compensation by way of an apology.
Miss W wasnt satisfied with UKIs response and referred her complaint to our service. Our
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the records showed an excess applied
and had been charged correctly. She accepted the policy covered the vehicle, as opposed to
Miss W. So, the business was able to speak to her partner. She felt the £40 compensation
was reasonable to acknowledge the lack of an attempt to fix the fault at the roadside.
Miss W disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider her
complaint. It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Miss Ws complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Miss Ws complaint in part. Let me explain.
Miss Ws policy provides cover should her vehicle breakdown. I havent seen a copy of her
insurance schedule. But UKI has supplied a template schedule that provides the same cover
as Miss W had in place. The business has supplied screenshots from its system that confirm
the type of cover Miss W has. This shows a £40 excess is chargeable.
The policy booklet includes the following information relating to excess charges:
Excess  the amount you have to pay towards the cost of assistance. You can find details
of your excess in your breakdown schedule. You will need to pay this when you call us to
ask for help with a breakdown.
Based on this, I think its clear a £40 excess payment forms part of Miss Ws policy. And this
was payable in the circumstances described. I note Miss Ws comment that she wasnt
provided with policy documents to explain the excess. UKI says information relating to the
policy was confirmed online when the policy was agreed. And in the policy documentation
that was sent out.
I dont dispute Miss Ws comments. But based on the information I have seen I think its likely
information about the excess charge was provided online when the policy was agreed and in
the documentation that followed. If Miss W didnt receive this documentation, I think its
reasonable to expect that she would contact UKI to query this at an earlier juncture
.
The system records UKI has supplied show the type of cover Miss W had agreed. The policy
provides cover linked to her vehicle. The business says assistance can be provided for
anyone with that vehicle. The policy terms explain that roadside assistance can be provided
to, any authorised driver and authorised passengers in the vehicle at the time of the
breakdown.
I understand Miss Ws partner wasnt a passenger or driving the vehicle when it broke down.
However, he did make a call to UKI where the recovery of her vehicle was arranged. As I
understand it, he didnt strictly meet the definition of an authorised passenger/driver here.
However, the policy does allow contact with persons other than the policyholder when a
claim is made. I think its clear Miss W agreed to these arrangements being made.
We arent experts in relation to data protection. I dont think the events described had a
detrimental impact or that its been shown that personal information was disclosed. However,
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) deal with data protection matters. If Miss W
remains concerned about this issue, she can contact the ICO to discuss this further.
The policy terms say that following a breakdown UKI will pay for roadside assistance. In its
complaint response the business says it may have been possible to carry out a temporary
repair of the vehicle. In this case its technician didnt attempt a repair. UKI says this
happened because, there seems to have been some confusion and the job was sent as a
recovery.
Miss W can reasonably expect a temporary roadside repair to be attempted under the terms
of her policy. Had this been done, its possible she would have been able to drive herself
home. I note UKIs comment that it would always advise this type of fault to be checked out
at a workshop. But this would still have allowed the opportunity for Miss W to arrange this at
her convenience. As it happened, her partner drove out to provide assistance and to drive
her home. This was inconvenient and caused some distress due to his ill health.
Having considered all of this I think UKI acted reasonably when speaking with Miss Ws
partner and in relying on the policy terms when charging an excess fee. But I dont think UKItreated Miss W fairly in not attempting a roadside repair. Had this happened the
inconvenience and distress caused by the need to involve her partner could have been
avoided. I agree with UKI that compensation is appropriate, but I think £125 is a fairer
amount in the circumstances.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint against U K Insurance Limited in part and 
require it to:
- pay a total of £125 in compensation, minus any payment already made.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
UKI responded to say it accepted my provisional decision and had no further comment.
Miss W responded to say the business sent two recovery trucks, she says the first couldnt 
do anything as he was outside of his allowed time. She says this caused a significant delay 
waiting for another truck. Miss W also says that she works in insurance and is aware unless 
permission is given another person cannot use the policy. She also says they need to pass 
three data protection questions. Miss W says she is disabled with mobility issues and she 
was left vulnerable whilst waiting for the second truck.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Miss Ws comments relating to data protection. I said in my provisional 
decision that its clear she agreed with her partner making arrangements on her behalf. I 
didnt think personal information had been shared  or that her partners discussions with UKI 
had a detrimental impact. Miss W can contact the ICO is she remains concerned. But her 
further comments dont persuade me to alter my provisional decision.
Miss W says there were two recovery trucks that attended. One couldnt assist, which meant 
there was a delay while the next one arrived. 
UKI describes some confusion as the job was initially sent as a recovery. This meant a 
roadside repair wasnt attempted. Another vehicle was then arranged to recover Miss Ws 
car.
I dont dispute Miss Ws account of events. This differs from the information UKI provided. 
But, in my provisional decision I acknowledged the lack of a repair attempt and the overall 
delay in the assistance provided to Miss W. Although I acknowledge her further comments 
and I accept this was a distressing experience for her - I still think a compensation payment 
for £125 is fair given the delays and issues described. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold in part Miss 
Ws complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to:
pay a total of £125 in compensation, minus any payment already made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2022. 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman