DRN-2685047
The complaint
Mr E complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
  
What happened
Mr E entered a HPA with BMWFS on 26 February 2020 and took delivery of the vehicle on 1 
March 2020. It was a brand-new vehicle. He says that within the first week he noticed it took 
numerous attempts to get the car to lock. He says the problem was intermittent.
He contacted the dealer on 12 March 2020 and the vehicle was booked in for checking with 
the service department on 20 March 2020. Mr E says that due to the restrictions imposed by 
the UK government as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, the appointment did not go 
ahead until 10 June 2020.
Mr E says he told the dealer about other issues he was experiencing with the sensor on the 
front of the car and clicking sounds which he heard from the rear door of the car when he did 
manage to get it to lock. He says he was told that the vehicle had been checked and no fault 
could be found.
Mr E says the intermittent problem with the locking persisted. He was in contact with the 
dealer on several occasions in the period between June and November 2020, but he was 
told it hadnt been possible to replicate the problem. He says that during this period, BMW 
did take certain actions. It installed a new card and replaced the key; changed the location of 
the receiver; and asked him to keep a log of when the problem occurred. Despite this, he 
says the problem persisted.
He complained to BMWFS.  It investigated his complaint. It said that because no fault had 
been found, Mr Es consumer rights hadnt been breached. Mr E didnt accept this. BMWFS 
arranged for one of its technicians to inspect the car at Mr Es home. No fault was found on 
the first two occasions. On the third occasion, the technician said the fault had occurred and 
the car didnt lock until the third attempt. He thought this was due to signal bounce rather 
than any problem with the cars components. So, BMWFS didnt uphold Mr Es complaint.
Mr E complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. She thought that 
BMWFS hadnt acted fairly. She said it was an implied term of the contract between Mr E 
and BMWFS that the quality of the vehicle would be satisfactory. A reasonable person would 
expect a brand-new car to be free from defects for a considerable period of time. 
Although the problem here had been intermittent and hard to detect, BMWFS had detected it 
on the third occasion when it visited Mr Es home. She thought it was more likely that the 
fault was with the car rather than the location of the car or how Mr E was operating the key. 
She thought it was reasonable to say that the car shouldve been free from this sort of 
defect.
BMWFS had already tried to repair the vehicle. So, in these circumstances our investigator 
thought Mr E should be able to reject the car. She said BMWFS should:
Cancel the agreement;
Collect the car at no extra cost to Mr E;
Refund the deposit paid plus 8% interest from the date of payments to the date of 
settlement;
Refund 10% of the payments made to date  reflecting the impaired use caused by the 
car not being of satisfactory quality; and
Pay £100 to Mr E for the inconvenience caused.
BMWFS didnt agree. It said that no fault had been found by the BMW approved retailer. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es complaint is about the vehicle not being of satisfactory quality on the date it was 
supplied to him.
Mr E acquired the vehicle through a HPA. Under the relevant legislation, the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015, BMWFS is liable if the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply to Mr E. The quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In this case the vehicle was brand new. So, I think a reasonable person wouldnt expect it to 
have any faults for a significant period of time.
Mr E reported the problem with the locking ten days after he took delivery of the vehicle. 
Hes provided us with a copy of an appointment to have the car looked at on 20 March 2020. 
So, although BMWFS says this wasnt logged on its database, Im satisfied that Mr E did 
report the problem. It wasnt until June 2020 however that the car was able to be checked. 
That was because of the national lockdown.
It is the case that when the car was checked no fault was found. But, I can see that Mr E 
says the fault persisted. Hes provided us with voicemails of messages from the service 
manager. These messages were at various dates from July right through to November. Its 
clear from the voicemails that the fault hadnt been able to be replicated. But Mr E was 
provided with a new key and the receiver was relocated on the car. Later, I can see that Mr 
E was asked to make a log of when the problem occurred, so that this could be reviewed.  In 
November 2020 it was agreed that a technician would inspect the car at Mr Es home. On 
the third visit the problem was found. The car didnt lock until the third attempt on that visit.
BMWFS said that the problem wasnt caused by any fault in the vehicles components. It 
said the problem was caused by signal bounce.
Ive thought about what both Mr E and BMWFS have said here. 
Having looked at everything, Im persuaded on balance that its most likely there is an 
intermittent fault with the car locking system. I say this because:Mr E has provided video evidence. Ive looked at the video hes provided, and which 
he also sent to BMWFS. It shows that despite pressing the lock button on multiple 
occasions the car doesnt always lock. It also shows that there is a problem whether 
Mr E is right beside the car or a short distance away from the car. So, Im satisfied 
the video evidence shows that there is a fault with the locking;
BMWFS did detect a problem on the third visit by its technician. Mr E has said the 
fault is intermittent. So, I think its possible thats why it wasnt detected during 
previous inspections; 
Mr E says he hasnt had any issues with signal bounce on any other vehicles, 
including a loan car hes had to use at times over the past year. And, he says the 
problem doesnt just happen when the vehicle is parked on his driveway.
So, on balance, Im satisfied there is a fault with the locking system on the car.
I think a reasonable person would expect the remote locking on a brand-new car to be in 
perfect working order  irrespective of where the vehicle was parked. So, I agree with our 
investigator when she said that the vehicle in this case was not of satisfactory quality at the 
time it was delivered to Mr E.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault thats present 
when a car is supplied. BMWFS has already had that opportunity. It has changed the key fob 
and tried relocating the receiver. It did that in October 2020. But, the problem has persisted. 
In these circumstances, my finding is that there is a fault with the car which BMWFS has had 
at least one opportunity to repair. The fault has persisted. So, my decision is that Mr E 
should be allowed to reject the car.
  
Putting things right
BMWFS should now cancel the agreement and collect the car (at no extra cost to Mr E). It 
should also refund the deposit of £3000 that Mr E paid, plus 8% interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Mr E told us in March 2021, hed covered 8413 miles. So, I dont think that the problem with 
the locking has prevented him from driving the car. Whilst I accept that the problem with the 
locking was of concern to Mr E, I think its impact on the use of the car was limited. So, I 
agree with our investigator when she said that BMWFS should be asked to refund 10% of 
the instalments paid by Mr E from the inception of the agreement. This is to reflect his 
impaired use of the car during the period.
Mr E has been inconvenienced. Hes had to take the car back to the garage on several 
occasions and hes had to escalate his complaint. Hes also experienced frustration each 
time the problem with the locking has occurred. So, I agree that BWMFS should pay him 
£100 for the inconvenience hes experienced.
I will also be instructing BMWFS to remove any adverse information about this agreement (if 
recorded) from Mr Es credit file.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited.
I now require BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to:
Cancel the agreement;Collect the car (at no extra cost to Mr E);
Refund the deposit of £3000 paid plus 8% interest* from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
Refund 10% of the payments made to date  reflecting the impaired use caused by the 
car not being of satisfactory quality; 
Pay £100 to Mr E for the inconvenience caused; and
Remove any adverse information about this agreement (if recorded) from Mr Es credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to take off tax from this interest. BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman