DRN-4346367
The complaint
Mrs S complains about her private medical insurance policy with BUPA Insurance Limited.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in mid-January 2023, Mrs S applied to BUPA for a private 
medical insurance policy and completed a medical history form. In mid-February 2023, 
BUPA asked Mrs S to complete a medical history form. Mrs S was confused by BUPAs 
request, as she knew that shed completed the form previously. She queried the matter 
with BUPA and provided it with a copy of the medical history form shed already 
completed. BUPA said that it had sent Mrs S a text message in January 2023, asking 
her to call. Mrs S says that she didnt receive that text message and complained to 
BUPA. 
Mrs S was frustrated by BUPAs progress in dealing with her complaint. In March 2023, 
Mrs S stopped her direct debit payments. The policy subsequently lapsed.  
Mrs S says that she suspended her direct debit payments because she believed that she 
was paying for a policy that wasnt yet underwritten, so wasnt valid. Mrs S wants a 
refund of the two payments she made and to resolve the issue about the outstanding 
information. 
In response to Mrs S complaint, BUPA agreed that its service hadnt been good enough. 
It said that it couldnt find evidence that it had sent Mrs S a text message in           
January 2023 asking Mrs S to contact it. BUPA said that it hadnt responded adequately 
when Mrs S raised the matter. It said that it would have dealt with any claim made at the 
relevant time. BUPA  paid Mrs S compensation of £100. Mrs S didnt think that was 
sufficient and pursued her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that the 
compensation of £100 BUPA had already paid in relation to service issues was fair. The 
investigator didnt think that BUPA was at fault in cancelling the policy after Mrs S 
stopped her direct debit payments. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. She said that hed concentrated on the 
cancellation of the policy whereas her key point was that she was paying for a policy that 
wasnt valid or underwritten. Mrs S says that BUPA didnt make reasonable efforts to 
contact her for the information it required. She says that she had no alternative but to 
stop paying her subscriptions. Mrs S says that if shed made a claim during the first two 
months of the policy, BUPA would have declined it as the policy wasnt underwritten, so 
two months payments were wasted. 
The investigator considered what Mrs S said but didnt change his view. Mrs S asked 
that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
   
Mrs S has expressed concern about how BUPA handled her complaint. Our service can only 
consider complaints about financial services. So, I cant consider the additional points that 
Mrs S has raised about the handling of her complaint because it isnt a regulated activity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The relevant parts of the membership terms say as follows: 
1. Cover for you and your dependants
[]
1.1.7 You must pay subscriptions [] in advance throughout your membership. []
[]
1.6.2 Your cover [] will automatically end if
you do not pay your subscriptions, or any other payment you have to make in respect 
of cover, on or before the date they are due. []
has BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably?
Its common ground that BUPA made errors in this case. It didnt send Mrs S a text asking 
her to contact it in relation to the additional medical information it required. Then it 
replaced her completed medical information form with a blank form on its system and 
asked her to complete it without explaining what additional information it required. I can 
see why that was confusing for Mrs S.
When Mrs S queried the matter, BUPA gave an incorrect response. Mrs S didnt find out 
what had gone wrong until BUPAs final response letter in April 2023. I appreciate that was 
frustrating. What should have been an easy process  setting up a policy  became a 
confusing and protracted matter. 
I think that BUPAs payment of compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable in relation to 
the service issues Mrs S encountered. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the 
nature, extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience caused by BUPAs errors in 
this case.
BUPA wasnt at fault in relation to the lapsing of the policy. As Ive set out above, the 
terms and conditions require payment of the subscriptions. Mrs S wants a refund of the 
payments she made as she says that she was paying for a policy that wasnt yet 
underwritten, so wasnt valid. 
Mrs S is right that the underwriting process hadnt been completed but BUPA says, and I 
accept, that if Mrs S had made a claim it would have completed the underwriting process 
and dealt with the claim accordingly. Thats what we would expect it to do. So, Mrs S had 
the benefit of cover even though BUPA made errors in its setting up of her policy. There 
are no grounds on which I can fairly direct BUPA to refund the payments Mrs S made. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this 
complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman