DRN-2821678
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains about the handling by Santander UK Plc of its 
application to open a new account under the Business Banking Switch Scheme.
Mr A, the director of P, brings the complaint on P's behalf.
What happened
In May 2020, P applied to switch its bank account to Santander under the Business Banking 
Switch Scheme. Under this scheme, applicants are given an incentive to switch upon 
successful opening of the new account.
As part of the information Mr A provided to Santander, he mentioned that P had previously 
had some activities in other countries. This caused Santander to require further information 
to investigate the nature of those activities. 
In July 2020, Santander withdrew from the Business Banking Switch Scheme and set 
25 August 2020 as the deadline by which all remaining applications must be completed.
Towards the end of July, Santander requested further personal information from Mr A to 
progress Ps application; and in August it requested more information. Unfortunately, 
Santanders deadline for accounts to be opened under the Business Banking Switch 
Scheme expired before Ps account could be opened. Although Santander was willing to 
continue with the account application, it was no longer possible for P to receive the incentive 
payment.
Mr A complained. He said that Santander had caused unreasonable delays in the application 
process, resulting in P missing out on the incentive payment and wasting his time.
Santander recognised that it had caused some delay in the process, but it explained that the 
checks it had carried out were required. It paid P £250 in compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr A did not think this amount sufficient so he brought Ps complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Ps complaint. He said that, although some aspects of Ps 
application ought to have moved more quickly, Santander had not caused unreasonable 
delays. He also noted that some information was still outstanding at the point of the deadline 
being missed. He said that the amount Santander had already paid P was fair compensation 
for the inconvenience caused.
Mr A did not agree with our investigators view. He said that Santander should have been 
clear upfront about the length of time the process was likely to take, and about its intentions 
to leave the scheme. Had he been made aware of these things, he might not have applied. 
As Mr A did not agree with our investigators view, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was Santanders process reasonable?
In assessing Ps account application, Santander asked Mr A for a large amount of 
information. Ive reviewed this process and I do not believe these requests were 
unreasonable. Santander has many regulatory obligations, which cause it to require 
information. In Ps case, its previous international activities triggered further checks, causing 
additional information to be requested.
Did Santander cause unreasonable delays?
Santander has recognised that it did cause some delay in the account application process. 
In particular, it appears to me that there was a delay between the middle of June, when 
Santander concluded its investigation into some of Ps international activity, and the end of 
July when it requested further personal information from Mr A. However, throughout the rest 
of the process, and given the extent of information required by Santander to assess Ps 
application, I do not think Santander caused unreasonable delay. 
Had Santander not caused any delay, it is possible the account would have opened before 
the 25 August deadline. However, even by the middle of August, the process was still 
continuing with further information outstanding. Therefore, it is likely the deadline would still 
have been missed.
Santander could have explained to Mr A earlier that it was possible the process might not 
conclude by the 25 August deadline. If this had happened, P might not have applied for the 
switch, or Mr A might have chosen to exit the process earlier. 
Santander has already paid P £250 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. Given 
that its not clear that Ps application would have concluded by the 25 August deadline even 
without the delay caused by Santander, and given that P was still able at this time to switch 
to another bank to benefit from the incentive payment, I believe this compensation is fair. 
Therefore, I will not be asking Santander to do anything more.
I am sorry for Mr A that, at the time he applied to switch Ps account, the process appeared 
straightforward and quick  but that isnt how it turned out. However, for the most part, 
Santander was fulfilling its regulatory obligations and that took time. I believe it would 
therefore be unfair for me to require Santander to compensate P more than it already has.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman