DRN-3810021
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding a credit 
card payment which completed on a card Mr R had previously reported as lost or stolen.
What happened
Mr R reported his credit card as being lost or stolen to HSBC and received a new card in the 
post. Sometime later, Mr Rs partner made an online transaction, authorised by Mr R, using 
his credit card details as stored on a merchants app. The transaction went through, but Mr R 
then realised that the details stored on the merchants app were those of the card that had 
been reported lost or stolen. Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. 
HSBC spoke with Mr R and explained that his credit card details had been updated with the 
merchant automatically. Mr R wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, especially as other 
HSBC staff members hed spoken with hadnt explained that to him previously. Mr R also 
wasnt happy that HSBC later sent him a response to his complaint advising that the 
complaint was closed. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted the scheme that had updated 
Mr Rs card details was run by the credit card provider, and not by HSBC, and so they didnt 
uphold that aspect of Mr Rs complaint. However, our investigator felt the service Mr R had 
received having raised his concerns with HSBC hadnt met the standard Mr R should 
reasonably be entitled to expect. So, they upheld Mr Rs complaint on that basis and said 
HSBC should make a payment of £100 to Mr R for the poor service hed encountered. Mr R 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC have explained that the reason the credit card transaction went through was because 
Mr Rs credit card details had been updated with the merchant via a scheme run by the 
credit card provider  the company whose symbol is on the card. And Im satisfied from 
HSBCs explanation that this was indeed the case. 
As such, given that it was the actions of the credit card provider which led to the updating of 
the card details with the merchant about which Mr R has complained, Im satisfied that 
HSBC themselves havent acted unfairly towards Mr R in the manner that he contends here. 
Additionally, it must be noted that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law. 
Rather, this service is an informal dispute resolution service with a remit based on fairness of 
outcome. And ultimately, there hasnt been an unfair outcome here. What happened is that a 
credit card transaction went through that Mr R had authorised. 
Mr Rs complaint here seems to me to be more about the process followed than the actual 
outcome. But if Mr R feels that a non-regulatory or unlawful process has been followed here, 
I feel this would be something he would need to raise with the relevant regulatory body or 
pursue through a Court of Law. Although, as explained above, I dont feel that HSBC 
themselves would be the correct focus of any further action Mr R might wish to take.
Im aware that Mr R feels HSBC should have given him the option to opt out of the scheme 
run by the credit card provider. But given that the scheme is run by the card provider, and 
not by HSBC, I dont feel that it is incumbent on HSBC to have a process in place to enable 
their customers to opt out of that scheme, and Im not aware of any compulsion on HSBC to 
do so. Additionally, I also feel that my previous point  that an unfair outcome hasnt 
occurred here  continues to be very relevant. 
Finally, in response to the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, HSBC 
have accepted that Mr R did receive poor service from them having raised his concerns 
about the transaction, and theyve agreed to pay £100 to Mr R as compensation for any 
trouble and upset he may have incurred resulting from that poor service. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, and Im aware Mr R feels that a larger amount of 
compensation should be warranted here. However, in consideration of the full circumstances 
of the service issues that Mr R encountered, including that they stemmed from concerns Mr 
R had about a process not controlled by HSBC, I feel the £100 HSBC have already agreed 
to pay does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this aspect of Mr Rs complaint.
All of which means that while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Rs favour, Ill only be 
doing so on the limited basis that HSBC must make a payment of £100 for the poor service 
he received from them. I trust that Mr R will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £100 to Mr R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman