DRN-3731942
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard reneged on a balance 
transfer offer.
What happened
Mr A claims Barclaycard called him in April 2020 to offer him a balance transfer promotion 
on his two credit cards. He says this was an interest free offer for an unlimited period with 
the handling fee being refunded. Also, in another call about balance transfers in July 2020, 
he says Barclaycard agreed to honour the refund of the handling fees. 
In February 2022, Mr A completed two balance transfers at 0% with handling fees of 2.9%. 
After completing the transactions, Mr A requested a refund of the handling fees. 
Barclaycard informed Mr A that this wasnt possible. Mr A submitted a complaint because he 
felt he had been led to believe Barclaycard were going to honour the commitment made in 
2020. 
Barclaycard didnt uphold his complaint as they couldnt see any such commitment had been 
made. Also, they said the balance transfers were processed correctly, with Mr A agreeing to 
the handling fees. 
Mr A complained to our service as he wants the handling fees refunded. This is because he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the balance transfer and accepted the fees if he thought they 
werent going to be refunded. However, our investigator didnt uphold his complaint.
As Mr A remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, for the following reasons, 
Im not upholding this complaint.
I first looked at the two disputed calls in April and July 2020. This is because they form the 
basis of Mr As complaint  that he was promised a deal in April 2020 and it was agreed in 
July 2020 that the handling fee would be refunded. He therefore feels Barclaycard have 
acted unfairly by refusing to refund the handling fee for a February 2022 transaction.
As there are no records of either the April or July 2020 calls, I have to consider what is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Barclaycard state that these calls didnt happen, which is reflected by the fact that they have 
been unable to provide any evidence of the calls. But given how certain Mr A is of these 
calls, I reviewed all the submissions from both parties to see if there was any information 
which suggested that they may have happened, or if a communication error or mix up 
occurred. 
So, Ive reviewed calls, call logs and notes, call transcripts, Barclaycard statements detailing 
available offers, correspondence and complaint records. But I couldnt see any evidence that 
Mr A was ever promised a deal like the one hes mentioned or that this was ever agreed. If 
that were the case, Id expect to see some record of this on Barclaycards systems.
The only record from around this time is from August 2020, when there is a note on 
Barclaycards systems of Mr A calling. The note shows that although Mr A was under the 
impression that he could get a balance transfer on certain terms, Barclaycard told him that 
they had no record of such an offer or agreement. However, although the representative said 
they would make a system note, they also said they couldnt find the call he was referring to 
and that they couldnt guarantee that any balance transfer fees would be refunded in the 
future.
So, I couldnt see anywhere that persuades me that its more likely than not that Barclaycard 
did ever make an offer or agreement in the way Mr A says. For example, Barclaycard has 
explained that any offers appear on statements and their balance transfer offers last for 30 
days. From what Ive seen, Mr As statements didnt show any such offer. 
I gave consideration to Mr As comment that the commitment was at the start of the Covid 
crisis. But I havent seen anything that makes me think it likely that Barclaycard would have 
offered the balance transfer on the terms Mr A mentions even in such circumstances.
I also considered Barclaycards correspondence records over the last five years. I could see 
a pattern of Mr A making requests for balance transfer deals, also a handling fee refund, with 
Barclaycards refusal reason being the inability to trace the transaction or call. It looks like on 
occasions Barclaycard has also refunded fees in the past, but that isnt a reason that I think 
it should do that in the circumstances here.
So, considering all the above, based on the balance of probabilities, I think it more likely than 
not that Mr A wasnt promised a deal in April 2020 or a handling fee refund offer in July 
2020.
I then looked at events in February 2022 where Mr A fully completed balance transfers, 
agreed to the terms and conditions, and subsequently requested Barclaycard to honour their 
commitments. I also considered Mr As comments that he wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the balance transfer and accepted the fees if he thought they werent going to be refunded.
Based on what Ive said above though, I havent seen that Barclaycard misled Mr A about 
anything here. So, when Barclaycard processed the balance transfers as it did in February 
2022, I think it only should have done so in line with the relevant terms and process at the 
time. Barclaycard has shown that it did this and that the terms were fully explained to Mr A. 
So, I havent seen anything which suggests Barclaycard have acted unreasonably or unfairly 
here and I dont think they need to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 Paul Douglas
Ombudsman