DRN-4065541
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money did not renew his credit 
card and did not provide reasons for doing so.
What happened
Mr H says Virgin Money told him in early 2021 it was not renewing his credit card account. 
He says he asked for the reasons, but Virgin Money didnt answer his questions. Mr H says 
Virgin Money continued to send account statements to him. He would like to know the exact 
reasons for the decision and says Virgin Money didnt provide him with all of the information 
he requested from it.
Virgin Money says its entitled in line with account terms and conditions to decide if it renews 
a credit card account agreement. It says it provided general reasons to Mr H and says he 
previously missed a number of required payments. Virgin Money accepts it didnt provide the 
requested documents by Nr H within a reasonable time period and has offered £75 
compensation.
Mr H had brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Virgin Money was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to decide if it 
wished to renew a credit card account. The investigator thought it was entitled to continue 
sending Mr H account statements as there was a credit balance on the account.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says there was an issue with a previous payment which 
was subject to a chargeback.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I make 
clear to Mr H that I can only look at the complaint about the decision not to renew his credit 
card and about the decision to continue to send him account statements. I cant consider Mr 
Hs complaint about the chargeback issue but appreciate why Mr H says the alleged missed 
payments has some relevance here. That does not affect my overall decision for the reasons 
I will explain. 
I have looked at Mr Hs account terms and conditions which I think he would have agreed to 
when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that its up to 
Virgin Money to decide if it wishes to renew a credit card account. So, I dont think Virgin 
Money made a mistake or acted unfairly by deciding that it no longer wished to have a 
business relationship with Mr H. I dont think Virgin Money is obliged to provide the exact 
reasons for ending the relationship and think such matters are often commercially sensitive. I 
am satisfied that Virgin Money has provided generic reasons for its decision.
I appreciate that Virgin Money has told Mr H that the missed payments issue my have 
impacted its decision and appreciate Mr Hs frustration if there was an explanation for those 
missed payments. I hope Mr H understands why I cant comment on that previous issue but 
think in any event Virgin Money was entitled in line with account terms and conditions not to 
renew the credit card account. 
I also appreciate that Mr H questions why he is being sent account statements. Having 
looked at Mr Hs credit file and Virgin Moneys file, I think its clear that Mr Hs account has a 
credit balance. So, I dont think Virgin Money has acted unfairly or made a mistake by 
sending Mr H account statements in these circumstances.
Virgin Money accepts it didnt send Mr H the required documents he requested in a 
reasonable time period. I can see it has offered Mr H £75 compensation which I think is fair 
and reasonable for that delay. I appreciate that is not the main part of this complaint and also 
appreciate Mr H may not be interested in compensation. But I dont think that delay justifies 
further compensation or that its impact was significant or resulted in financial loss. If Mr H 
wishes to accept that offer, then no doubt he will contact Virgin Money about it.
Overall, Im satisfied that Virgin Money was entitled to decide it didnt wish to renew its credit 
card agreement with Mr H. This now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this 
dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman