DRN-3577842
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly declined 
a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W contacted Lloyds to make a claim for storm damage to a flat roof at his home. When 
he spoke to Lloyds, Mr W explained that a permanent repair was due to be carried out to the 
roof the following day. After the repair was completed, Lloyds looked at the evidence 
provided by Mr Ws builder about the condition of the roof. It then declined the claim as it 
said the damage was the result of a gradually operating cause.
Mr W complained to Lloyds. When Lloyds replied it said it had reviewed all the evidence and 
remained of the view that the damage was the result of a gradually operating cause 
highlighted by the winds, rather than the result of a one-off storm event.
When Mr W complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim on the basis of the damage being the 
result of a gradually operating cause.
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 30 May 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that there was a storm around the time 
of the damage. Ive also looked at weather reports from around that time and can see there 
were windspeeds that would be considered to be a storm. I also think a storm could cause a 
roof covering to life. So, I think the answer to the first and second question is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question. Im aware that Mr W arranged for a permanent 
repair to be carried out to the roof and that this happened within a few days of him first 
contacting Lloyds to report the damage. Mr W has said Lloyds told him he could go ahead 
with the work. Ive listened to the phone calls from when Mr W made the claim. When Mr W 
explained the work would be taking place, the claim handler asked if it was a temporary or 
permanent repair. Mr W said it would be a permanent repair. The claim handler said Lloyds 
needed to know the condition of the roof and it should inspect the damage before the work 
was carried out and that if the damage was found to be caused by an issue such as wear 
and tear, it wouldnt be covered by the policy. The claim handler also spoke to the builder. I 
havent been able to listen to that call, but Ive seen the written summary of it. The builder 
seemed to describe the condition of the roof and agreed to provide a cause of damage 
report and photos. 
I dont think it was for Lloyds to tell Mr W that he couldnt carry out work on his own home. 
Lloyds explained the normal process for assessing the claim and the risks involved in Mr W 
carrying out the work before it had the chance to inspect the damage. Lloyds also told the 
builder what was required for it to consider the claim. In the circumstances, I think that was 
reasonable.
When Lloyds assessed the builders report and photos it declined the claim because it said it 
was a gradually operating cause highlighted by the storm, as the roof covering hadnt been 
properly secured. Lloyds provided this service with further details from the contractor. I 
looked at that evidence but couldnt find the issues the contractor had highlighted. Lloyds 
then provided a further assessment from an in-house surveyor who reviewed the photos and 
other evidence provided by Mr Ws builder and explained why he thought this showed the 
damage was the result of a gradually operating cause. He said:
I am concerned that the images show the felt to have been laid directly upon T&G [tongue 
and groove] boards. This is not a plywood deck with large stable boards and fewer joints. 
These T&G boards are narrow and there are many board joints running along the roof. The 
timber boards will shrink and swell across the wood grain. This normal seasonal movement. 
Such movement can readily break the bond between deck and the felt.

I would not try to stick felt to T&G boards because of the propensity for movement in the 
boards to disrupt the bonding of the felt. The movement may happen along the board joints. 
The movement could happen in the boards themselves. We know that T&G boards can cup 
or crown depending on their moisture content. That type of flexing is possible in normal use 
and such movement will affect the felt adhesion.
The surveyor also explained that he had spoken to a named popular roofing felt 
manufacturer and that company didnt recommend bonding felt to T&G boards. He then said:
I am of the view that the laying arrangement was not adequate and that the felt has become 
steadily detached since it was laid. The wind lifted up felt which was already loose. The 
images evidence that too.
I note that the felt has been peeled back as a whole. There are no parts of the felt behind still 
stuck to the boards. There are no islands of felt still left stuck to the roof. There has been no 
need to forcibly scrape back the covering with some vigour to remove any of it. This is 
because the felt was already free to lift. The patterns left by the bitumen on the felt and the 
boards are revealing too. One can see many areas where the bitumen is smooth. If one 
imagines peeling back from a surface glue which is still bonded and still working, the glue 
stretches and breaks and leaves behind residue. It takes on a disrupted appearance. Glue 
which is no longer bonded just lifts up evenly and smoothly. The image does show areas 
of adhesion, but crucially there are many areas where the glue was not working leaving 
behind a regular, smooth pattern.

I have concluded, well beyond the balance of probabilities threshold that the felt lifted 
because it had already de-bonded from the decking. As an aside, I cannot see how wind 
could separate felt like that if it were already well fixed. I cannot comprehend such a feat. 
High wind peeled back the felt because the felt was already loose. And the debonding was 
caused by failings in how the felt was laid. This is not damage caused by a storm. The high wind may have brought the defect to the customers attention, but that does not turn a 
declined claim into a valid one.
The surveyor also marked an image of the peeled back roof felt to show where the glue 
wasnt working.
Ive also looked at the report from Mr Ws builder, which said:
it had been done to a very high standard using 3 layers of felt including a drip batten, I 
couldnt see any weak areas at all, the roof was water tight and the felt was securely fitted 
around the undamaged areas.
I also read the builders response to the contractors assessment of the likely cause of 
damage, which the builder disputed. I can understand why the builder disagreed with the 
contractors view. However, having reviewed all of the evidence in this case, including the 
assessment by the in-house surveyor, I currently think it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
decline the claim on the basis of a gradually operating cause. I think the surveyors evidence 
is clear and persuasive and shows why it was more likely that the main cause of the damage 
was a gradually operating cause highlighted by the storm. So, I dont currently intend to 
uphold this complaint or to require Lloyds to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 27 June 2022.
Lloyds replied and said it didnt have any further points.
We didnt receive a response from Mr W.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I havent found any reason to change my decision on this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman