DRN-2946604
The complaint
R, a limited company, is unhappy that Rational Foreign Exchange Limited terminated a
forward contract without reason and without notice.  
What happened
R entered into a forward contract with Rational FX in October 2019. In March 2020, R tried
to drawdown funds on the forward contract only to find that the contract had been terminated
by Rational FX. R wasnt happy about this and didnt feel that there was a legitimate reason
for the forward contract to be cancelled, so it made a complaint.
Rational FX looked at Rs complaint. it felt that it hadnt acted unfairly when
terminating the forward contract and noted that it had done so because R had breached the 
terms of the contact in regard to a dispute about deposit and margin call payments. So, it 
didnt uphold Rs complaint.
R wasnt satisfied with Rational FXs response, so it referred its complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but while they didnt feel that the timing of
Rational FXs termination of the contact was fair, they felt that the act of termination itself
was reasonable, given the historical dispute between R and Rational FX. So, they also didnt
uphold this complaint.
R remained dissatisfied and felt that Rational FX had terminated the contract to take
advantage of a favourable movement in currency exchange rates at Rs expense, and so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 June 2021 as follows:
Having reviewed all the information available to me, including listening to several 
recorded telephone calls between R and Rational FX, its clear to me that the 
business relationship between R and Rational FX was troubled from the start of the 
forward contract.
Indeed, its clear that R believe strongly that the some of the terms and requirements 
of the forward contract werent sufficiently explained to it by Rational FX at the time 
that the contract was agreed, including the need for deposit and margin call 
payments to be made.
Rational FX state that the aspects of the forward contract requirements which R 
disagreed with, as mentioned above, arent unusual and are found regularly in 
forward contract agreements. Rational FX also state that these requirements are 
clearly stated in the documentation provided to R at the time that the contract was 
agreed.
Rational FX have also expressed that Rs resistance to the forward contract 
requirements regarding deposit and margin call payments, as well as Rs stated 
insistence that these requirements wouldnt be met by R, left Rational FX in a 
position of risk that was unacceptable to them as a business, such that they decided 
to terminate the contract.
I find it difficult to criticise Rational FX for this decision, and I say this because, while 
it may have been the case that certain requirements of the forward contact werent 
discussed in detail at the time that the contract was agreed, these requirements were 
clearly stated in the Rational FXs terms and conditions. Furthermore, these 
requirements were explained verbally to R shortly after the forward contract was 
agreed and R first questioned why deposit and margin payments might be required. 
And following this, R continued to state that it wouldnt be making such deposit and 
margin call payments.
So, given that Im satisfied that by refusing to make the potential payments that might 
be required on the forward contract that R were effectively stating that it wasnt willing 
to meet the terms of the forward contract, its difficult for me to conclude that Rational 
FX have acted unreasonably or unfairly by terminating the forward contact on the 
basis that R wasnt meeting the agreed terms. And it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this aspect of Rs complaint.
However, I do have concerns over the timing of Rational FX actioning the 
cancellation of the forward contact, and with the lack of ongoing communication with 
R about this. Indeed, Im aware that R believes that Rational FXs terminating the 
forward contract in March 2020 was done at that time to take advantage of a 
particularly advantageous swing in exchange rates - a consequence of the market 
volatility surrounding the emergence of the Covid 19 pandemic in early 2020 - which 
offered Rational FX the opportunity to make a profit on the contact at Rs expense.
I can understand why R might suspect this, especially as the disagreements between 
R and Rational FX had largely taken place several months prior to this, and also 
because Rational FX had honoured Rs usage of the forward contact in January and 
February 2020 without comment.
Rational FX have explained that while the decision to terminate the forward contract 
had been made in late 2019, the implementation of this decision was delayed until 
the exchange rate shifted such that the terminated contract would not incur a loss, 
which Rational FX have confirmed R would have been liable for and which they were 
concerned R might not meet.
This makes sense to me, and having reviewed the matter closely Im satisfied that 
Rational FX didnt terminate the forward contact with the aim of profiting from the 
sudden swing in the currency exchange rate, but rather that they did terminate the 
contact at the point that the exchange rate moved to a position where the termination 
of the contract wouldnt incur a loss.
But it remains the case that I dont feel that Rational FX were sufficiently clear in their
communication to R about their intentions to terminate the forward contact when the
opportunity to do so without a loss arose.
Indeed, if it had been the case that Rational FX had maintained clear and consistentcommunication with R that they did intend to cancel the contract when possible, 
because of the breakdown in the business relationship resulting from the past 
disagreement over required deposit and margin call payments, then its highly likely 
that I would have found this complaint in Rational FXs favour completely.
But Rational FX didnt maintain a clear line of communication with R about this 
matter, as this service would expect them to have done, and this meant that when 
the forward contract was terminated, this came as a surprise to R and it meant that R 
hadnt been given the opportunity to prepare and make alterative arrangements.
And while I dont feel that Rational FX should be held accountable for the business 
losses that R is claiming here, given that I consider the act of termination itself to 
have been fair and reasonable in light of Rs stated intention to not make the 
necessary deposit and margin payments, I do feel that by not communicating more 
clearly their intention to terminate the contract to R, Rational FX did cause R, as a 
business, a degree of unnecessary inconvenience.
Because of this, I will be provisionally upholding this complaint in Rs favour on the 
basis of unfair communication only and my provisional instruction will be that Rational 
FX must make a payment of £400 to R to compensate it for the inconvenience it has 
incurred.
I hope that both R and Rational FX can understand, given what Ive explained above, 
why Ive made the provisional decision that I have here, and I welcome any 
comments that either party might now wish to make.
In my provisional decision I gave both R and Rational FX the opportunity to provide any 
comments of additional information that they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision. Rational FX didnt provide any comments. However, R did make a detailed 
submission explaining why it thought I should reassess the outcome Id reached in my 
provisional decision.
Id like to thank R for its detailed submission, and I hope it wont consider it a discourtesy 
that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Indeed, as with similar submissions provided 
by R, the format and tone of its submission might be better suited to a court of law  which 
as previously advised, this service is not.
As such, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint in regard to 
what I feel is a fair outcome in light of all that has taken place  which is in-line with this 
services role as a quick and informal dispute resolution service.
This means that if R note that I havent specifically addressed an additional point that its 
raised in its submission, it shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I 
can confirm that Ive read and considered all of Rs and Rational FXs submissions to this 
service  but that I have read and considered that additional point, but that I dont consider it 
necessary to address that additional point directly here in order for what I consider to be a 
fair outcome to be reached.
In its submission, Rs concerns centre primarily on the timing of the cancellation of the 
forward contract by Rational FX, which R contend was an act of opportunism by Rational FX 
so as to take advantage of historically low exchange rates resulting from the drastic market 
movements surrounding the global emergence of Covid-19.
I can appreciate Rs position here, but Im not convinced that these points are relevant when 
considered against the remit of this service. Id like to remind R again that this service isnt a regulatory body or a court of law. Rather, 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service with a mandate 
that focusses on whether a fair outcome has been reached for the complaining party  in this 
case, R. 
What this means is that whether Rational FX benefitted financially from their cancelling the 
forward contract lies outside the scope of what this service can look at and would instead be 
a matter more suitable for other institutions to consider. 
The question I have to ask is whether the outcome to R  that the forward contract was 
cancelled  is a fair outcome, given all the circumstances of what has taken place. 
In this instance I continue to feel that it was reasonable for Rational FX to have cancelled the 
forward contract, given that R had declared its intentions to not abide by the terms of that 
contract.
However, it also remains my position that Rational FX should have communicated that it 
intended to cancel the forward contract to R at the earliest possible time, such that R had the 
opportunity to make alternative arrangements, if it so wished. 
I must note that it doesnt follow from the above that I feel that Rational FX should be 
considered accountable for the consequential losses that R has claimed here, and this is 
because, ultimately, I do feel that Rational FX were justified in cancelled the forward 
contract, as previously explained. 
But I do feel that Rational FX should pay some form of compensation to R for not 
communicating their intention to cancel the forward contract, and it was for this reason that 
my provisional instruction was that Rational FX should make a payment to R of £400.
Having considered all the points raised by R, Im satisfied that the outcome that I reached in 
my provisional decision remains a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint, and so I 
will be upholding this complaint in Rs favour on that basis only.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that R was wanting here. This final decision brings to 
an end what we - in trying to resolve Rs dispute with Rational FX informally  can do for it. R 
may want to pursue this matter through other routes. Im sorry that this service cant help R 
more on this.
  
Putting things right
Rational FX must make a payment to R of £400.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Rational Foreign Exchange Limited on the basis explained 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman