DRN-3569853
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc has been applying interest and charges to 
his account, even though he has been experiencing financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr W had a current account with the Co-op Bank. The account had a £200 overdraft facility 
which Mr W started using in early 2014. Around the same time, he told the bank that he was 
struggling financially. The bank suggested that he seek advice from a debt charity. He did 
that and a payment plan was arranged.
Mr W made some payments as arranged, and Co-op Bank suspended interest in the 
meantime. Those payments stopped in November 2014, however, and interest was applied 
in line with the account terms.
The bank says too that Mr W asked that his contact number be removed from its file and that 
he complained about the contacts he had received. When he later moved, Mr W did not 
provide the bank with an updated address. So, for more than five years, there was no 
meaningful contact between Mr W and the bank; in that time, no money was paid into the 
account. Interest was added to the debt, generally amounting to less than £2 a month.
Towards the end of 2019, the interest applied to the account took its balance over Mr Ws 
overdraft limit. Co-op Bank therefore wrote to him at the last known address it had for him. It 
then closed the account in March 2020 and sold the debt to a debt collection agency in 
August 2020.
Mr W complained about what had happened. Our investigator did not think however that the 
bank had treated him unfairly. In summary, she thought that it had taken steps to try to help 
him but, without being able to keep in contact, there was little more that it could do.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for 
similar reasons. 
I accept what Mr W says when he says that he was in financial difficulties from about 2014 
and as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Banks and other lenders should seek to help 
customers in financial difficulties  for example, by suspending interest and charges, 
agreeing repayment plans and, in some cases, by debt forgiveness. What is appropriate will 
depend on individual circumstances, and banks should take those circumstances into 
account. 
In this case, Co-op Bank did agree a repayment plan to help Mr W reduce his overdraft. It 
was not adding charges and the amount of interest being added each month was relatively 
small. Mr W was, at that time, being assisted by a recognised and respected debt charity. I 
think that the steps the bank took at that time were reasonable. 
However, Mr W then stopped making payments, asked the bank to remove his contact 
details from its records, and complained when it tried to contact him. When he then moved, 
the bank had no reliable way of contacting him or discussing the situation with him. Dealing 
with financial difficulties generally requires discussion and agreement between debtor and 
creditor, and cooperation on both sides. 
In the circumstances, it was difficult for the bank to do any more than it had done. And, 
having had little or no contact (and no payments) for several years before the account 
exceeded the overdraft limit, I do not believe it was unreasonable for Co-op Bank to take the 
steps it did in 2020 to close the account. 
I note that the debt has now been sold. It may be that the new creditor will take a different 
approach from that taken by Co-op Bank. It does not follow however that that is the 
approach Co-op Bank should have taken. The circumstances for each business are not the 
same. Overall, however, I do not believe that the bank has treated Mr W unfairly in this case.       
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require The Co-operative Bank Plc to 
take any further steps to resolve Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman