DRN-3747102
The complaint
Ms J complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) provided a poor service and unfairly 
declined her claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms J made a claim to Covea when she noticed bricks had fallen from the apex section of her 
house. Ms J first tried to claim under her home emergency cover (which was provided by a 
different insurer). As this wasnt successful she made a claim to Covea under her home 
insurance policy.
Covea appointed a surveyor to review and validate the damage. Ms J said Coveas surveyor 
didnt check with her that it was OK to use recording equipment. She said the surveyor was 
rude towards her. Covea said the assessor declined the claim as when the inspection was 
made he observed there was a deterioration of mortar due to a gradual breakdown. The 
assessor also queried at the time if any recent works had been completed due [to] the 
deterioration. 
Based on the report provided by the surveyor, Covea declined the claim. It explained the 
deterioration of mortar was wear and tear which it said wasnt covered by the policy. 
Ms J said that there was bad weather around the time of the claim, so she thought this may 
have caused the damage. However, Covea checked weather reports and couldnt find 
evidence of storm conditions. Covea couldnt find any terms in the policy that would cover 
Ms J for the damage. Ms J complained as she thought the damage should be covered.
Our investigator decided to partially uphold the complaint. He thought Covea had been fair to 
decline the claim. He thought Covea had provided evidence that wear and tear was the 
cause of the damage and he was satisfied this wasnt covered by the policy. However, he 
thought there were inconsistencies with what Covea said so he awarded £75 compensation 
for the poor customer service provided. Both Covea and Ms J disagreed with our 
investigator, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have started by considering whether I think Covea were reasonable in declining the claim. 
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Covea looked at the weather conditions just before the time the claim was reported and 
didnt see any evidence of storm conditions.
However, Ms J explained her circumstances that made her vulnerable in the lead up to the 
claim. She explained that there were storms in her area in February 2022 which couldve led 
to the damage. However, due to her vulnerability, its possible that she may not have noticed 
the damage immediately after the storm. Given the bad weather may have caused the 
damage, I think its reasonable to also consider the weather conditions at this time too.
I have checked the weather reports that our service has access to for where Ms J lives. The 
reports show there were gusts of wind up to 83mph and there was some rainfall. The rainfall 
wasnt significant and doesnt fall within what I would consider a storm. However, our service 
would consider the strength of the wind recorded as a storm. Therefore, I think the answer to 
this question is, yes. 
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
After Coveas surveyor did the inspection, Covea concluded that wear and tear had caused 
the damage. It wasnt aware of any storms and it hadnt identified any damage that may 
have been caused by a storm.
Significant winds could result in tiles been blown from a roof or causing them to become 
dislodged. However, the damage Ms J was claiming for presented differently to this.
Covea sent a surveyor to inspect the damage which is what I wouldve expected to happen. 
So, I have reviewed the surveyors report. The surveyor reported inspection of the roof 
[shows what looks like] some repair work has been done to the verge previously and there is 
some deteriorated mortar. Deteriorated mortar works has caused the damage, there is no 
insured peril.
I have reviewed the photographs that are provided with the surveyors report. The 
photographs are clear and show some close-up pictures of the damaged areas. I can see 
there is a small section (around two tiles in length) where mortar is missing in the verge 
(between the tiles and facia). There is mortar intact either side of the damaged area, 
however, there are areas of mortar which look loosened along the length of the verge.
I think the conclusions reached by the surveyor is consistent with what I can see in the 
photographs. The mortar does look like its deteriorated over time and loosened  and I think 
its likely the damaged area is where the deterioration has been greatest. So, I dont think the 
damage is consistent with a storm. So, I think Covea has been reasonable in what it said.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
The storm may have worsened the effect of the mortar deterioration, but I dont think it was 
likely it was the main cause. So, I think Covea has been fair to decline the claim for storm 
damage. Covea has said the damage was caused by wear and tear / deterioration. I think this is a fair assessment. I havent seen any other expert evidence to suggest otherwise.
I have checked the policy and it states: we do not cover the following - loss or damage 
caused by wear and tear. The policy also states, this policy does not insure the following - 
loss or damage arising from: gradual causes [and] wear and tear. I think Covea has 
reasonably shown that wear and tear / deterioration was the main cause of the damage. As 
this is excluded from the policy cover, I think Covea has been fair to decline the claim. So, I 
dont uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Ms J said the customer service she received wasnt very good. She said there were 
inconsistencies in what she was told by Covea. Ms J said she wasnt asked at the outset 
whether she was happy for the surveyor to use recording equipment to record what was said 
during the survey. Covea has denied this. As both parties disagree on how the events 
unfolded, I have reviewed the evidence that is available to understand better what may be 
more likely to have happened.
Covea have provided the recorded output from the survey. The surveyor can be heard 
talking most of the time, but Ms J can be heard briefly responding to the surveyor when a 
question is asked. I can hear the surveyor explaining that he thinks the damage has been 
caused by mortar deterioration and he said the claim wouldnt be covered. I can see this is 
consistent with the surveyors written report and Coveas final response letter. So, I dont 
think it would be fair to uphold this part of the complaint.
Its not possible to hear if Coveas surveyor asked permission to use the recording devise, as 
obviously if it had it would be before the recording started. However, I think its unlikely that 
Ms J would say this if Covea had asked permission correctly. I can also see in Coveas final 
response it said it provided feedback to its surveyor about his attitude. For Covea to provide 
feedback, suggests it felt the service dipped below its usual standards. So, Im going to 
award £75 compensation to Ms J as I think this wouldve have caused her some minor 
distress.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to pay Ms J:
£75 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman