DRN-3029218
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although Halifax 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.
Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax didnt need to tell Mrs M 
about the commission it received - so Halifax doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mrs M paid for the PPI. But in any event Halifax has offered to pay back some 
of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because I can see from the application form that a clear choice was 
provided and there is a cross in a box to indicate Mrs M wanted the PPI. And she signed 
the completed form. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Mrs M was eligible for the cover 
and she didnt have any means to fall back on, so she had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect her ability to claim. Although she has mentioned a problem in the year of 
sale it seems likely that happened after the sale in January, so she would have been 
eligible to claim.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs M as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs M 
would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she 
would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more 
it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mrs Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs M should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mrs M about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs M wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, Halifax has told us that the commission for Mrs Ms PPI was less than half 
of what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mrs Ms case was less than 
half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mrs M about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Halifax treated Mrs M unfairly. 
This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Mrs M back any of the commission she paid for the 
PPI. 
But in any event Halifax has offered to give back to Mrs M some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mrs M as if it had treated her unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipout above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ms complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax didnt need to 
disclose the commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mrs 
M paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs M. So it doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2021 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman