DRN-3381385
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his motor insurer esure Insurance Limited (Esure) regarding the 
settlement it gave to him when his car was stolen (and not recovered).
What happened
Mr Bs car, which he uses for his business as well as for his personal use, was stolen around 
3 May 2021 and he made a claim to Esure. He was given to understand that matters would 
likely be settled in about 10 working days. And in that time Esure did indicate to Mr B it 
would likely offer him £18,646 as a settlement for his claim, which Mr B thought was low. So 
he enquired about the value with a view to negotiating a better settlement. Esure understood 
that to be an expression of dissatisfaction from Mr B, so it dealt with the matter as a 
complaint. It was 28 June 2021 when Esure, having investigated the complaint, told Mr B it 
wouldnt increase its offer  that it was sending him a cheque for this sum, less his policy 
excess. Esure said it felt £18,646 was fair as it was an average of the values returned by the 
trade guides routinely used by insurers to determine the market values of cars. Mr B 
complained to us as he could only find cars like his for sale at around £30,000.
Our Investigator checked the trade guides and felt Esure had valued the car fairly. And she 
explained that because Mr B had indicated he wasnt happy with the value when Esure had 
first put it to him, it had to treat that as a complaint. She did not think it had done anything 
wrong. So she did not uphold the complaint.
Mr B felt that was unfair. He said he understood trade guides are often used (although he 
worries that they might factor in the possibility of a part exchange having occurred), and that 
sale prices are not always indicative of what cars sell for. But he felt it was unlikely that cars 
advertised at around £30,000 could be brought for as little as £18,000. He checked weekly 
and could not find a similar car for sale at Esures value. He said he had lost business in the 
interim as the car had been an integral part of his work. His complaint was passed to me for 
consideration.
I felt Esure hadnt offered a fair settlement for Mr Bs claim, but that it should have paid the 
sum offered without delay as an interim payment. I explained why I felt the amount Esure 
had set as market value wasnt fair, and what I thought it should have paid. Detailing an 
increased sum it should now pay. I felt Mr B should be compensated for the loss of use hed 
had  but not so far as to make up for any lost earnings. And that £250 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience should be paid. 
Esure didnt reply to my provisional decision. Mr B said he felt my value was more realistic 
than Esures, and closer to, but still slightly lower than, what he sees as the true value of his 
car. On this point though he said he was pleased that I had understood his concerns about 
the market value Esure had set for the car and that Esure would have to make an increased 
payment in this respect. So he didnt seek to challenge the value or payment Id said was 
now due any further.
But Mr B also said he was unhappy about my loss of use award and it not being extended to 
cover his lost earnings. He said he couldnt have done anything for ten weeks anyway until 
Esure made its unreasonably low settlement payment to him. And then it was still around 
£12,000 short of similar like models. He said he didnt feel it was reasonable for him to have 
had to try and find loans, or to otherwise similarly put himself out to replace the car, when 
Esure was at fault. Mr B said he thought my award of £10 per day might have been a typing 
error as £10 a day wasnt a realistic daily rate for earnings. He said if he had hired a car then 
he could have shown a direct loss  and he presented some examples of what the cost to 
him might have been (£68 - £125 a day). Or hed have had to pay around £1,000 a month if 
hed taken out a loan for £12,000. He said my findings in this respect had really upset him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
It is fair to say that this service often finds the use of trade guides to be the most fair way of 
determining the market value for a car. And I can reassure Mr B that the guides do not factor 
in any potential or hypothetical possibility of a part exchange occurring. But, in this instance, 
I do not think that the trade guides are indicative of a reasonable market value for Mr Bs car.
Mr Bs car was a five-door rugged terrain vehicle with a large space in the rear. And this 
model of car is not made any more by the manufacturer. Searching the trade guides for 
values for a car like Mr Bs, with five doors, does return some with a sales figure in the 
region offered by Esure. But my online research shows that cars available for purchase 
around that price, no longer retain the five doors and related layout they were designed with.  
Rather, theyve been converted; to remove their rear doors and take out the rear seats, 
increasing the large space in the rear, but are none the less all still registered as five door 
vehicles. Those five door conversions are being advertised for around and mostly just under 
the £20,000 mark, which would be in line with the value returned by the guides and offered 
by Esure for Mr Bs car. Whilst in comparison their five door, non-converted counterparts are 
averaging much higher advertised sales prices, many over £30,000. But those with a 
mileage similar to Mr Bs car, are all averaging about £27,000. A value much more in line 
with what Mr B told Esure he would have to pay to replace his five door, non-converted car.
Id explain, the trade guides take their data from advertised and likely achieved sales prices. 
And in doing that the basic detail about the car is used  so the guides would return prices 
associated with five door versions of Mr Bs car without differentiating between those which 
have and have not been converted. In fact I was only able to spot this by close examination 
of the sale details  notably the photographs  because the descriptions still record the 
converted cars as five door models. Comparing those examples on sale against Mr Bs car 
satisfy me that he wont be able to buy a car like he had for the sum of £18,646, as offered 
by Esure. In this case the trade guides do not present a fair and reasonable market value for 
the settlement of Mr Bs claim to be based on. 
Mr Bs car had 118,000 miles on it. I found three examples that match the details of Mr Bs 
car with similar mileage  two at 119,000 and one at 120,000, with respective values of 
£24,000, £26,995 and £29,500. Which gives a very rough average of about £27,000. The 
only other car I found which I felt was comparable to Mr Bs, with anything like the mileage of 
Mr Bs car, had only 101,000 miles on it. Unsurprisingly the asking price for that car was 
much higher than the other three, £35,000. In my experience, mileage plays a key factor in 
the price of second hand cars  and a difference of over 15,000 miles would likely have a big 
impact. I do not think it is fair then to take that example into account. And of the sale data 
Mr B shared with us  none showed a similar mileage to his car. So, I think I can reasonably 
take the average figure Ive found of £27,000 into account as a base line indicator of the level of value around which Mr B will likely have to look at paying to replace his car. Of 
course, cars for sale do fluctuate in price  and the sale price achieved is not always 
reflective of the price that was asked. So it wouldnt be reasonable for me to take an exact 
average of the examples I found and say that is the figure Mr B will most likely have to pay to 
replace his car. But I think it is fair to say that, in the circumstances here, the internet sales 
data found indicates that he will likely have to pay around 40% more when he replaces his 
car, than the value Esure offered in settlement of his claim. That works out to be about 
£7,500. I think Esure should pay this sum to Mr B
Im going to award interest to Mr B too. Im going to say Esure should actually pay Mr B 
interest on the whole settlement value of £26,146 (less the policy excess) from 17 May 2021. 
In respect of the sum of £18,646, less the policy excess, the interest will only need to be 
applied until the date of the cheque Esure sent at the end of June 2021. For the amount of 
£7,500 Im awarding here, interest will have to be applied until that sum is now settled with 
Mr B. I am awarding this because whilst Esure did need to treat Mr Bs expression of 
dissatisfaction over the settlement it had offered as a complaint, it did not need to hold 
payment until it had reviewed matters. Esure was satisfied that it owed Mr B £18,646 so 
there was no good reason that couldnt be paid  with Esure explaining to Mr B this was an 
interim settlement, the extent of which it would be reviewing given his concerns and it would 
respond to him further in due course. If Esure had done that I think it would likely have paid 
the interim £18,646 (less the policy excess) to Mr B on 17 May 2021. And if it had assessed 
the market value fairly and reasonably, it would have been paying more than that. As such 
Im going to award interest from that date on the whole settlement sum. 
I know it has been difficult for Mr B being without a car and feeling like he couldnt afford a 
replacement with the settlement Esure gave him. But as this was Mr Bs livelihood, I would 
have expected him to use the funds Esure gave and, if necessary, find a way to fund the 
amount outstanding so the car could be replaced. I appreciate that doing so might have 
been difficult for Mr B but he should reasonably, I think, have been looking to mitigate the 
loss Esures unfair and unreasonable settlement offer caused him. So Im not going to ask 
Mr B for details of his lost earnings so Esure can be made to reimburse him. 
However, that said, Esure did leave Mr B in a difficult position. And whilst as I said above, 
this service often supports the use of trade guides to find the market value for a car, wed 
also expect an insurer to listen to their customer  perhaps think about whether this is one of 
those rare situations where the trade guides arent a reliable tool. I dont think Esure did that 
here. And even if Mr B had acted to mitigate the result of the unreasonable position Esures 
failure left him in  he would always have suffered some financial loss as a result because 
he simply could not replace his car for the value given. Whether that loss manifested as lost 
income or, for example, paying interest or similar on a finance agreement, Mr B would 
always, I think, most likely have had some out of pocket costs. So I dont think it would be 
fair to Mr B in this situation to leave him without any compensation at all for financial loss. 
But I dont know what Mr Bs reasonable financial loss would likely have been. So Ive 
thought about a fair way of resolving things. In this instance Im going to say Esure should 
compensate Mr B by paying him a nominal amount of £10 a day from 17 May 2021 until the 
£7,500 Im intending to award him is paid. This as recognition that he had, and always would 
likely have had, some financial loss on account of Esures unfair and unreasonable 
settlement.   
I appreciate that Esures insistence that its offer was fair and reasonable has been frustrating 
for Mr B too, and that hes suffered some inconvenience. I think a sum of £250 
compensation for this upset is fairly and reasonably due.I note Mr B has accepted the additional value Ive said Esure should pay him in settlement of 
his car. And Esure hasnt objected to this. So Ive no need to review or revise what I said in 
this respect. 
Regarding Mr Bs reported loss of earnings, Im sorry my findings upset him. That wasnt my 
intent. But it is my job to look at everything which happened, think about what should have 
happened, where things went wrong and, whilst being fair to both parties, come to a decision 
which is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. I know Mr B feels he was stuck in a 
position that was not of his own making. But I think he could have looked to do something 
differently so as to limit the loss he was forced to suffer because of Esures unfair and 
unreasonable claim handling and settlement. But he didnt do so. Not when Esure initially 
didnt pay him the settlement in the time in which it had said his claim would be settled, or 
later when it sent him the settlement cheque having issued its final answer on his complaint. 
As Mr B has shown he could have looked to hire a car  that would have been an outlay his 
business wouldnt usually have, but it would have meant he could still have honoured 
existing arrangements or made new bookings. If he had done that then I might have felt it 
appropriate to make Esure reimburse that extra outlay. Or perhaps refunded interest 
payments if a loan had been put in place. But Mr B didnt hire a car or take out a loan. And 
I cant make awards based on what might have been lost/incurred but wasnt.  
So what I had sought to do with my provisionally recommended redress, whilst knowing that 
Mr B had reported a loss of earnings, was to acknowledge that Mr B quite likely, no matter 
what he did, would always have had some loss on account of Esures failings. In other 
words, even if hed mitigated the situation in respect of earnings, as I think he should have, 
he wouldnt have come away clean, with no loss suffered at all. And Esure shouldnt have 
placed him in that position. So it wouldnt be fair in my view, to leave Mr B entirely without 
compensation. I felt provisionally that it was fair and reasonable to resolve that by applying 
an award this service often makes when a policyholder suffers the unreasonable loss of use 
of their car due to the failings of the insurer. I did not make a typing error in this respect. My 
award is £10 (ten pound) a day. I remain of the view that an award in this respect, with Esure 
paying that until the outstanding part of the increased settlement payment is paid, is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here.  
  
Putting things right
I require Esure to pay Mr B:
£7,500 in full and final settlement for the theft of his car. 
An amount equivalent to interest* on the sums of £18,646, less the policy excess and 
£7,500 from 17 May 2021 until each sum was/is paid.
A compensation sum to acknowledge financial loss paid at £10 a day from 17 May 2021 
until the sum of £7,500 is paid.
£250 compensation for upset caused.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr B, it should tell them how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman