DRN-1325864
 
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with how The Chorley and District Building Society (Chorley) have handled 
the maturity of his savings account. 
What happened
Mr Ts regular savings account was due to mature around October 2018, so Chorley sent
him a maturity instruction form. 
Mr T wrote to Chorley in October 2018, he was unhappy with some of the questions asked 
about his income and employment details as they were excessive and unnecessary - he said 
hed completed the rest of the form but not this part. He was also unhappy with the interest 
rate offered by Chorley on some of their savings accounts.
In their final response letter, Chorley said by providing the information on the form Mr T was 
supporting their work against crime and helping them to meet regulatory requirements. They 
told Mr T how they made commercial decisions on interest rates for their savings products  
and they were competitive. When Chorley responded they also referenced two of Mr Ts 
account numbers in the letter  one of these was for the regular savings account and the 
other was a completely separate account.
Mr T was unhappy with Chorleys response. He felt they were suggesting that he wasnt 
supporting their work against crime, by not providing the information on the maturity form 
he said this questioned his integrity. He also said Chorley hadnt confirmed whether the 
maturity instructions had been actioned and theyd improperly used his data by including a 
reference number for one of his other accounts in their response - as it wasnt relevant to his 
complaint.
Chorley said they werent questioning Mr Ts integrity and hadnt acted inappropriately by 
including the other account number in their final response. Mr T was unhappy with Chorleys 
response and when he replied with further points in early 2019, Chorley didnt consider them 
 they just referred to their previous responses. So, he brought the complaint to this service.
Our Investigator didnt think Chorley had done anything wrong  so didnt recommend Mr Ts 
complaint be upheld. Mr T didnt agree with our Investigator, and he pointed out that the 
maturity form has now changed and doesnt include a number of the questions he felt were 
intrusive. He was also unhappy Chorley had mentioned a type of account he held with them 
in their response to this service - as this wasnt connected to his complaint.  
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts made a number of detailed points. Ive considered all of them but I'm going to focus 
my decision on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as a 
discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it. 
Ive looked at the maturity form Mr T wouldve completed in October 2018. Chorley asked
Mr T to confirm details about his current employer, his job history (if employed for less than 
two years), his annual income - and if there was any other income, where this was from. 
Chorley said it asks these questions to help comply with anti-money laundering regulations. I 
dont think these are unreasonable questions, its also not unusual for a financial business to 
ask a customer questions to help them comply with regulatory requirements and I dont think 
Chorley have done anything wrong by asking them. 
Mr T found some questions intrusive, so he didnt complete parts of the form. But it didnt 
have any affect or delay on the maturity or the operation of his account. So I dont think hes 
suffered any inconvenience by being asked the questions or not completing them. Ive also 
considered what Mr T said about the form changing but as I dont think Chorley did anything 
wrong by asking the questions, I dont think this makes a difference.
Mr T says hes taken exception to what Chorley said in their final response. The wording 
says by providing the information hes supporting their work against crime, it doesnt say he 
isnt supporting it by not providing the information. Mr T asked about the relevance of some 
questions in the maturity form and I think Chorley was telling Mr T why they asked for it. So, 
although I can appreciate Mr T doesnt like what theyve said, I dont agree theyve done 
anything wrong. 
I agree it would have been useful for Chorley to confirm Mr Ts maturity instructions had 
been actioned in their letter in October 2018. But the instructions were actioned, and a 
cheque was posted to Mr T a few days later  so as there was no delay in them sending the 
cheque I dont think they need to do anything different. 
In their responses Chorley included one of Mr Ts other account numbers and another 
account type. I dont think either of these were directly relevant to Mr Ts complaint about the 
maturity instructions. But he referenced the type of account in his initial complaint letter as 
he was unhappy with the interest rates offered and Chorley addressed this in their response. 
So, I dont think Chorley did anything wrong including these. Im also satisfied with Chorleys 
explanation of its interest rates in this particular case, so I see no reason to comment on it 
further here.  
Mr T said Chorley didnt give further consideration to his responses  and hes said his 
complaint couldve been resolved by Chorley without the need to involve this service. 
Chorley provided its final response to Mr Ts complaint in October 2018. When a business 
issues its final response its required to provide referral rights to this service. While Mr T 
continued to communicate with Chorley after this it was his choice to do so as they had 
issued their final response on the matter. I therefore dont think theyve done anything wrong 
by choosing to no longer discuss the matter with Mr T and refer him to this service.
 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman