DRN-4347003
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was recently contacted by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to say he 
was still on a mortgage with a former partner, from many years ago. Mr S said that RBS 
notification of arrears was wrong, and very distressing, and it then gave him incorrect advice.
What happened
Mr S has also complained to our service that he remains named on, and jointly and severally 
liable for, this RBS mortgage alongside his former partner. I can see that our service has 
considered that point separately for Mr S, so I wont look at that issue here.
Mr S complains that arrears on the mortgage have now affected his credit file, which meant
hed been unable to purchase a home for his family. He said he got RBS communication,
telling him about these arrears, out of the blue, after many years with no contact. That letter
wrongly stated that arrears on the mortgage were over £44,000, which Mr S said was very
frightening. In fact they were a little over £1,000.
Mr S said he then received notice of a payment agreement on the mortgage, which he hadnt
agreed to. And he said hed received advice from RBS that he may be removed from the
mortgage in six months time if he paid off the arrears, but then RBS said everything would
depend on an affordability assessment on his ex-partner.
Mr S said this had a severe impact on him. He said it had made him ill. Hed had to pay
expensive legal fees, and had paid arrears that werent his to stop him being held to this
mortgage. Mr S wanted RBS to take him off the mortgage (which Ive explained I wont
comment on here). And he also wanted RBS to pay more than the £100 in compensation
that it had offered him.
RBS didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Mr S hadnt updated his correspondence
details when he moved out of the mortgaged property, some years ago. So he hadnt
previously received information about the mortgage. But his name was still on the mortgage,
and he was still jointly and severally liable for the debt. So RBS said it had informed credit
reference agencies (CRAs) of this debt in line with the terms of the mortgage.
RBS said it didnt need Mr Ss agreement to set a payment plan to clear the arrears on the
mortgage. It could reach that agreement with one of the parties named on the mortgage. 
RBS did accept that it made a mistake when it contacted Mr S about the arrears. It said the 
mortgage balance and arrears figures had been transposed, and it apologised for this. RBS 
said it would pay Mr S £100 in compensation.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. She said it would have
been distressing for Mr S to get a letter saying he had mortgage arrears of over £44,000.
She noted Mr S told us this affected his health. And he said it was some time before this
mistake was rectified. Our investigator said RBS should increase its award by a further £250
in addition to the £100 it had already offered for this.
Our investigator said RBS hadnt clarified the effect that waiting 6 months after clearing the
arrears would have on the arrears. She said it was unlikely that any payments towards the
arrears or outstanding payments would remove Mr Ss liability for the outstanding amount.
She thought this would have caused further confusion to Mr S, and she recommended that
RBS pay £50 for this.
Our investigator said Mr S also complained that RBS hadnt been back in touch, after hed
complained to our service. Our investigator said it wasnt uncommon for a bank to pause its
discussions with a customer while our service was considering a complaint. She said she
couldnt say RBS acted unfairly here.
Our investigator recommended that RBS pay Mr S a further £300, bringing his total
compensation to £400.
RBS agreed to this. But Mr S didnt. Much of his response concerns the issue of whether he
could be removed from the mortgage, which Ive explained I wont discuss further here. But
Mr S also said the letter he got from RBS had a major error, so much so that he felt the most
stress and distress he had ever felt. Mr S said he sought immediate legal advice and had
many sleepless nights over losing his life savings due to this error.
Mr S said there seemed to be some confusion on what had been said about arrears. Mr S
told us he phoned RBS on several occasions. He said it had specifically advised him that if
he paid the arrears of approximately £1,200, this would give the other party the chance to
request that he come off the mortgage, as they would then be accepted into a six month
period of clean banking. Mr S said RBS told him he would then be likely to come off the
mortgage. But Mr S said after hed paid, RBS then said it couldnt confirm whether or not he
would be taken off the mortgage, which added further frustration. So Mr S said hed paid
£1,200 for nothing, and was still on the mortgage. He didnt accept that £50 made up for this.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I havent been able to see that RBS had previously been notified by Mr S of a new 
address, after he left the mortgaged property. And Mr S hasnt suggested he did this. So 
I dont think its RBS fault if Mr S hasnt previously received information on this 
mortgage.
I also think that, whilst Mr Ss name remains on this borrowing, its reasonable for RBS 
to include his name, when it informs CRAs of the status of this mortgage. That includes 
any arrears.
 
I think its reasonable for RBS to have worked with the other person named on this 
mortgage to set up a payment plan to clear the arrears. I dont think its unfair or 
unreasonable for RBS to have established this without seeking Mr Ss agreement. Mr S 
was still able to clear the arrears himself if he didnt want this payment arrangement to 
show on his credit file, and he told us he has since done so.
I understand that RBS accepts it made a mistake when it first contacted Mr S about the 
mortgage, because it incorrectly set out the arrears. I accept that this would have been 
extremely distressing for Mr S, and for that reason, I think RBS should increase its offer 
of compensation in this case to make a total of £400.I dont think its unreasonable for RBS not to enter into detailed discussion with Mr S of 
issues hes referred to our service, while those issues are with our service. It can be
confusing if theres a direct exchange between the bank and a customer while our 
service is considering a complaint. So I dont think that RBS has to do anything to make 
up for this.
On Mr Ss complaint that he was misled by RBS into thinking his name would be 
removed from the mortgage if he paid arrears of £1,200, I havent reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. 
Ive considered the notes that RBS has of its calls with Mr S, and I can see that on 30 
June 2022 he said he hadnt previously been told the right amount of the arrears. He 
said if he had, he would have cleared this. Mr S said he would speak to his solicitors 
about being removed from the mortgage, and RBS said that until any such application 
was granted, which it might not be, these arrears would still show on his credit file. So I 
think that at this stage, Mr S was already considering paying the arrears himself. Mr S 
has told us he was concerned that his job would be affected if he didnt keep a clean 
credit file.
On 14 September 2022, Mr S spoke to RBS again, and asked if he could be taken off 
the mortgage if he agreed to a change in the interest rate. RBS was very clear then that 
Mr Ss former partner would need to apply if he was to be taken off the mortgage, and 
RBS set out this process for him. It explained this couldnt be done in return for his 
agreement to a rate change. So I think Mr S was aware of the process for being 
removed from the mortgage then, if he hadnt been before.
On 10 November 2022, Mr S rang to check whether the payment plan was in place and
payments had gone through. He said he would be paying the arrears soon.
On 21 November 2022, Mr S said that he was paying the arrears. He said he didnt want 
to, but had to because of his credit file.
I havent been able to see that Mr S had a discussion with RBS where it suggested 
paying the arrears on this mortgage would help him be removed from the mortgage. And 
Mr S has told RBS, and us, that he couldnt have arrears showing on his credit file. So I 
dont think its most likely that Mr S paid off the arrears on the mortgage because he was 
misadvised by RBS. I think its most likely that he paid off the arrears primarily because 
he was concerned about the effect these would have on his employment. So I dont 
think this part of Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.
I do, however, think this has been a distressing experience for Mr S, and I think it was 
made much more so by RBS unfortunate mistake over the amount when it first 
contacted him about the mortgage arrears. For that reason, Ive explained that I think 
RBS should pay Mr S a total of £400 in compensation. I understand that RBS may 
already have paid £100, so Ill allow RBS to take account of any payment of 
compensation its already made in this case, when its paying this award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS replied to say that it agreed with my findings, as it appreciated that receiving the letter 
with a mistake over the arrears amount would have been distressing for Mr S. 
Mr S replied to disagree. First, he said I hadnt specified in my decision how long ago he 
took out this mortgage, and he thought that was highly relevant. I should like to reassure Mr 
S that, although I may not include detail like this in a published decision, I have taken full 
account of just how long ago the key events here happened, in reaching my decision. 
Mr S wanted to stress that hed signed paperwork to confirm his removal from the mortgage 
many years ago, when he moved out, and he said hed provided screenshots showing the 
other party confirmed this. He said the other party must have known he hadnt been taken off 
the mortgage, as they would have been receiving statements with his name on. And he 
thought the other party would also have had an obligation to tell the lender if a new partner 
was living at the property when Mr S moved out. 
Mr S said despite all this, he hadnt had anything to tell him he was still on the mortgage until 
May 2022. Mr S said hed bought and sold a house in the intervening time, with no mortgage 
showing on his credit reports, even though he now understood the joint party had already 
missed payments. So Mr S felt RBS was wrong to issue a final arrears and notice of 
possession letter, when he was being made aware of an entirely unknown debt.
Mr S said because he wasnt aware of still being on a mortgage, he wouldnt have been 
making RBS aware of his changes of address. And he said hed never been asked to do so.
Mr S also said he thought I was making assumptions about why and when hed paid the 
other partys arrears. He said the other party made a payment arrangement when theyd told 
him they were applying for transfer of title. Mr S said he understood the other party had 
applied for a rate change (which he said he hadnt agreed) and a debt management plan 
which would hold him to the mortgage for between 18 months and 2 years. Mr S said this 
payment plan is still showing on his credit file and will be for 6 years, and Mr S said he felt 
everyone accepted this would mean he couldnt get a mortgage, despite never having 
missed payments of his own. 
Mr S said he disagreed that RBS was clear about the rate change. He said RBS knew he 
was complaining about being tied to the joint account holder, so why would he then apply for 
a rate change? Mr S said he wouldnt sign a product transfer, as this would make him liable 
for the mortgage. 
Mr S also said he disagreed that RBS had made things clear about coming off the mortgage, 
he said he spoke to three different people who told him he might be able to come off the 
mortgage once the arrears were paid, or after a six month period of clean banking, or they 
werent sure at all. Mr S said he was still no further forward, and still didnt know if the joint 
party would ever be able to remove him. 
Mr S said he found it staggering that our service was quite happy for RBS to put his 
complaint on hold for 8 months whilst we consider this case, despite the ongoing 
consequences to him. He was still very unhappy RBS had offered no further clarification.
Mr S said that on the phone call on 30 June 2022, he was considering paying the arrears 
when he found out they were smaller than he first believed, and he said Id correctly noted 
that his job was under threat. He said his solicitor was advising him to take legal action 
during this time, and he paid the arrears against legal advice. Mr S said he did this because 
he was advised in November 2022 by RBS that this would allow the joint mortgage holder to apply for a transfer of title. Mr S said this advice changed when the arrears were paid, and 
RBS told him then it would take at least six months before he could come off the mortgage. 
But he said RBS was also telling him that the payment plan would have held him to the 
mortgage for 18 months, which he didnt want. 
Mr S said he didnt think RBS had treated either party fairly and its communication had been 
below par throughout his dealings with it. Mr S said he didnt understand how this wasnt 
clear from information RBS had supplied. 
I understand that this has been a deeply frustrating experience for Mr S, and Im sorry that 
Im still not able to give him the response he wants. However, this is a complaint brought by 
Mr S alone. We dont have the permission of the other party named on the mortgage to look 
into Mr Ss complaint. And that limits what its appropriate for our service to look into. 
I cannot share here any personal information about the third party who is also named on this 
mortgage. And many of the issues which Mr S is raising now would depend on what was or 
was not said or done, by this third party. So Im sorry to have to tell Mr S that Im just not 
able to look into those issues here. I cant comment on whether or not RBS was asked by 
that third party to take Mr S off this mortgage. And I cant look at what RBS was or was not 
told by this person, about who was living in the property. 
Although I havent listened to all the calls that Mr S had with RBS, I do think its likely Mr Ss 
communications with RBS have been affected by the same problem, that RBS isnt able to 
share personal information about the third party with Mr S. And of course, RBS doesnt know 
what the third party may or not do in future. I think this must make RBS communications 
with Mr S difficult, and I appreciate this would be frustrating for Mr S. 
I have looked into the issues that I think our service is able to consider here. 
I have been able to reach the conclusion that its not RBS fault that it continued to write to 
Mr S at the property address, because RBS has told us it received no notification of a new 
address from Mr S, and Mr S hasnt suggested that he offered this. I think that lack of an up 
to date address is likely to be why this mortgage, and any previous missed payments, 
havent previously shown up on Mr Ss credit file. 
Because Mr S hasnt been in touch with RBS for some time, I appreciate that it would have 
come as a shock to suddenly be contacted about the arrears. I think RBS mistake over the 
amount owed would have compounded this, which is why I thought it would be fair and 
reasonable for RBS to pay Mr S more compensation than it had previously offered.
I havent been able to see that RBS had promised Mr S he could come off the mortgage if he 
paid the arrears. Its internal notes suggest it had made clear there could be no guarantee of 
this. And I still think Mr S paid the arrears on the mortgage mainly because, as he 
acknowledges, his job was under threat. Mr S said hed ignored the legal advice he received, 
when he paid the arrears. That makes me think that securing his job against this threat was 
extremely important to Mr S. So it seems most likely that, even if RBS communications with 
Mr S had been exemplary, he would still have been likely to have made this same decision, 
so he would no longer have concerns about his employment.
Mr S also said he was unhappy that RBS had effectively paused everything while this 
complaint was with our service, and wed let RBS do that. But Mr S hasnt suggested that 
hes waiting for RBS to clarify issues other than those our service is considering now. Im 
sorry if its taken longer for our service to deal with Mr Ss complaint than either he or we 
would like, but I would like to reiterate that its not wrong for RBS to have deferred to our 
service, while this complaint was being considered by us.For these reasons, I havent changed my mind about this case. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must pay Mr S a total of £400 in 
compensation. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc can count towards that amount, any 
payment of compensation it has already made to Mr S for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman