DRN-1715792
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK plc didnt give him the full information about the interest 
that may apply to his balance transfer credit card, if he also used it to make purchases. 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr S took out a credit card with Santander. He decided to apply for it online 
after visiting a branch with his wife where she discussed the card with an adviser. The main 
purpose of him taking it out was so that he could transfer balances from other credit cards, 
but he understood from the conversation in the branch that hed also be able to use it for 
purchases.
The credit card had an introductory interest rate of 0% for the first three months for 
purchases and for the first 27 months for balance transfers.
After the account was opened, Mr S transferred the balances from his other credit cards onto 
the Santander card. And he did this each month after that, only using the card for these 
balance transfers. He set up a direct debit for a fixed amount to make payments towards his 
balance each month.
However, in September 2019, he used his card to make two purchases, paying separate 
amounts to the account to match the total cost of these purchases. He called Santander to 
ask how the payments would be applied to his balance. And he was told that it was 
advisable to keep the credit card for balance transfers only, rather than also using it for 
purchases.
When he queried this, he was told that the full billed balance, including the balance transfers, 
would need to be paid off to avoid paying interest on those purchases.
Mr S complained as he said hed never been told this. Hed called Santander to process 
some of his balance transfers and had completed some online, but wasnt warned that if he 
also used the card for purchases he would be charged interest.
Mr S needed to take out another credit card elsewhere to transfer the balance from 
his Santander card so he wouldnt have to pay interest, which he felt caused him stress and 
anxiety.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint, and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Mr S had applied for the credit card without seeking advice from Santander that it 
was right for him. The investigator said Mr S had been given the key facts document for the 
credit card, along with its terms and conditions, and these set out the interest rates applying 
and how payments to the balance would be allocated. The investigator thought Mr S had 
been given the correct information, and said that he didnt think Mr S had needed to transfer 
the entire balance on his card as hed paid the amount of the purchases hed made.Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He said hed thought the same  that he could 
avoid paying interest on the purchases by making a payment to the credit card to cover the 
amount of them. But Santander had told him interest would be charged on the purchases if 
the full billed balance wasnt paid off by the due date. Mr S said that the terms and 
conditions were misleading and more information shouldve been given to him and his wife in 
the branch.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2020. And I reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator in that I thought Santander had given Mr S enough information 
to understand how interest could be incurred by the way he chose to use the credit limit on 
his card, however my understanding of the charging of this interest where a balance remains 
on that card was different to that set out by the investigator.
I said that the terms and conditions of this credit card, which Mr S agreed to accept, set out 
the introductory interest rate of 0% on purchases for the first three months and 0% on 
balance transfers for the first 27 months after account opening. After the applying 
promotional period ended, these transactions would be charged at an interest rate of 18.9% 
a year.
However, Mr S felt that the impact of using the card to make purchases after the first three 
months when he'd already transferred other credit card balances onto it wasnt made clear. 
He used the card for two purchases after the 0% promotional rate for them had expired.
I looked at the key facts document for the credit card account and this does say that 
payments towards a balance would be allocated to the different amounts of the statemented 
balance that are charged at a higher interest rate before those that are charged at a lower 
interest rate. I said that when Mr Ss statemented balance was solely made up of balance 
transfers, these were still within the 0% introductory interest rate. The purchases he made 
using the card in September would be charged at 18.9%  clearly a higher rate than applying 
to the balance transfers.
But I said that the key facts document also explains that payments would go to the older 
statemented balance first: Allocation of payments - If you do not pay off your balance in full, 
payments we receive are applied to the highest interest bearing transactions first. We will 
pay off balances that are already on your statement before any new transactions.
And later in the document, under section 7 Allocation of Payments, it says Because 
payments are applied first against Transactions already shown on your statement, if you 
want to pay off a recent Transaction (for example a Cash Transaction) you would first need 
to pay off the statemented balance.
I said that although the example given was of a cash transaction; this would also apply to 
purchases if they were the more recent transaction, as in Mr Ss circumstances.
So I said that, even though Mr S made payments that covered the amount of his purchases, 
this wouldnt mean that this amount would be deemed as paying off those purchase 
transactions for the purposes of avoiding being charged interest on them. The full 
statemented (billed) balance is one amount; it isnt separated by the transaction type. The 
payments he made would go towards the balance that was already on his account before he 
used the card for those purchases. I said I thought this was why Mr S was told that he would need to clear the full balance, 
including that made up of the balance transfers hed completed, so that he wouldnt incur 
any interest.
I said that my understanding and explanation of the terms and conditions of the card, and 
specifically the way that payments towards the balance are allocated, is different to that of 
the investigator. And I could see that this interpretation is what Mr S initially thought too.
But I didnt think this in itself meant that the terms were unclear, or that Santander should 
have specifically told Mr S that using it for both purchases and balance transfers meant that 
interest may be incurred, when this was explained in the account documentation. 
Mr S had the card for a number of months before he used it to make the purchases he did. 
And through that time, hed only used it for balance transfers. The 0% interest on purchases 
applied for the three-month period after account opening, so I said it was reasonable to think 
that Mr S wouldve been aware that this had ended when he made the purchases, and 
wouldve known that he didnt intend on paying off his balance in full.
And Mr S was able to use the card for purchases, and could combine them with transferring 
balances if he wished. I didnt think that he was given the wrong information about how he 
could choose to use the credit card account.
The terms set out that purchases have a maximum of 56 days interest-free period if the 
balance is paid in full and on time. This information is also shown on the monthly 
statements: Interest is calculated and charged daily therefore interest payments will 
increase the longer payment is delayed. You will not pay interest on new purchases if you 
pay your balance in full and on time each month. If your account is not paid in full, interest 
will be charged on the daily balance and not just the outstanding balance. If you have not 
paid your balance in full in the previous month, you may receive a further interest charge in 
the following month even if you have paid your balance in the current month in full.
Overall, I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
The responses
Santander responded to say that it had nothing further to add.
Mr S didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As neither Mr S nor Santander have provided any further submissions in response to my 
provisional decision; I see no reason to depart from the conclusions that I reached in it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Cathy BovanOmbudsman