DRN-2078842
The complaint
Mrs Q and Mr Q complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold them mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policies in 1999, 2002 and in 2004.
What happened
Mrs Q and Mr Q initially arranged a mortgage with Lloyds in July 1999 in a meeting. At the 
same time, they also arranged an MPPI policy taken out in Mr Qs name only. The policy 
covered him against accidents, sickness and unemployment. The mortgage and policy 
ended in January 2003.
In October 2002, Mrs Q and Mr Q arranged a new mortgage and with it also an MPPI policy. 
They did so in a meeting. This policy was again in Mr Qs name only. The mortgage is still 
going. 
In April 2004, Mrs Q and Mr Q took out a secured loan on their mortgage that Lloyds called a 
Homeowners loan and did so in a meeting. With this Mrs Q and Mr Q took out an additional 
MPPI policy, and this again was in Mr Qs name only. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mrs Q and Mr Q dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Q and Mr Qs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Q and Mr Qs complaint for the following reasons:
I first of all looked into whether Mrs Q and Mr Q were given a choice to have the 
policies. I have done this by considering both parties recollections and any 
documentation provided from the time of each sale. 
Mrs Q and Mr Qs recollections about the three sales are not detailed. This is 
understandable due to the many years that have passed since the date of each sale. 
So, I have needed to look at the sales documentation provided from that time to obtain 
an understanding as to what more likely happened on each occasion.
I have been able to review the sales documentation that was completed by the parties at 
the time of each sale. I have been able to see that in July 1999, Mrs Q and Mr Q 
completed a separate application form and that the policy was presented on this 
document as optional. So, as they signed separately, I think they wouldve understood 
that the MPPI policy was an optional product and they then gave their consent by 
signing this form.
I can see for the 2002 and 2004 sales, that they signed application forms that had a box 
ticked for MPPI. After seeing this I can see that they were given a choice on the forms 
and they signed agreeing to have the policies both in 2002 and 2004. So I think they 
most likely were given a choice to have the policies when they met with Lloyds in 1999, 
2002 and in 2004.
I think, after considering the documentation provided and what I know of how Lloyds 
sold policies at that time, it is more likely that Mrs Q and Mr Q were advised it was a 
good idea to have the insurance to protect their mortgage repayments, and they took it 
on that advice in 1999, 2002 and in 2004. But it doesnt look as if these policies were 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time of each 
sale. 
I have drawn the conclusion that the policies were more likely suitable because although 
Mr Q (as the sole policy holder) says he had good sick pay (6 months full and 6 months 
half) and £3000 savings, I think he still wouldve found benefit with having the cover. 
Having the policies in place would mean Mrs Q and Mr Q could use any provisions to 
cover other expenses. I think, on balance, Mrs Q and Mr Q would have found the cover 
the policies provided useful for a 12-month period of unemployment or sickness for Mr 
Q. I can also see no other reasons such as a significant or restrictive term that would 
make the policies unsuitable for him either. 
I cannot be sure if Mrs Q and Mr Q would have received the costs of the policies clearly 
but even if they had received all the information on this during each sale, I dont think it 
would have changed their minds to have the cover for the reasons that I have already 
given. The MPPI policies were reasonably priced compared to similar policies available 
at the time of each sale and to the monthly repayment. And Mrs Q and Mr Q could have 
cancelled the MPPI if it did become unaffordable in 1999, 2002 or 2004.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policies didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs Q and Mr Q wouldve been affected by any of these based on what I have 
already concluded.
So, I dont uphold Mrs Q and Mr Qs complaint about the mis-sale of the three MPPI policies 
they took out in 1999, 2002 and 2004. Lloyds have provided compensation to them though 
regarding these sales and this is for what it says was excessive commission that it received 
for selling the policies to Mrs Q and Mr Q. I understand Mrs Q and Mr Q have already 
received payment for this. They have queried why they have received two of the three 
cheques in both of their names when the policies were in Mr Qs name only. Our service 
asked Lloyds about this and it has said this was a mistake and it confirmed again that the 
three policies were in Mr Qs name only.  
In conclusion, I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs Q and Mr Q, but on balance, 
I do not uphold their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Q and Mr Qs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q and Mr Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman