DRN-4269318
The complaint
Ms F complains that ReAssure Life Limited took too long to arrange for her to encash her 
personal pension and its service was poor. Ms F believes she has lost out as a result.
In dealing with ReAssure Ms Fs occasionally been helped by a financial adviser. But, for 
ease of reading, I will refer to the advisers comments as being Ms Fs.
At the time Ms F took out her pension it was provided and administered by another 
company. But as ReAssure has confirmed it is responsible for replying to the complaint I will 
only refer to it within this decision.
Provisional decision 
On 10 July 2023 I issued a provisional decision. For ease of reference Ive copied the 
relevant extracts below. I said:
What happened
Ms F had funds invested in a personal pension. In May 2021 she asked ReAssure for advice 
about accessing those funds. ReAssure sent her a pack setting out her options. It said if she 
wanted to proceed she would need to ring it.
The following month (June 2021) following an enquiry from Ms F, ReAssure told her that she 
couldnt take a partial transfer of just her tax free cash from the pension. If she wanted to do 
that it said she would need to transfer the entire pension. It then sent her another copy of the 
retirement options pack.
In October 2021 Ms F emailed ReAssure. She said she would like to take her entire pension. 
She confirmed her personal circumstances including that she was living abroad and asked 
how she could access her funds tax free. ReAssure replied. It said it could pay 25% of the 
fund tax free but it would have to deduct tax from the rest, most likely at an emergency tax 
rate. It said Ms F would need to approach HMRC to request a refund. Ms F asked for more 
details and ReAssure confirmed she would need to ring it to go through the required 
regulatory information and it could then send her the necessary forms.
Ms F rang ReAssure on 19 October 2021. It wrote to her the next day (20 October 2021) 
saying it had enclosed the required forms. It also sent the same forms by email. On 
14 November 2021 Ms F emailed ReAssure. She said it hadn't included the relevant forms 
when it wrote to her on 20 October 2021. ReAssure then reissued the forms. Over the 
coming weeks Ms F contacted ReAssure several times to complain that she was having 
problems accessing information from her ReAssure online Portal. ReAssure replied on 
22 December 2021. It said her portal access was active and it would arrange for someone to 
help her to use its features. ReAssure made some attempts to call Ms F without success.
On 5 January 2022 ReAssure received some completed forms from Ms F. Ms F contacted 
ReAssure again. Amongst other things she complained that she was still having issues 
accessing the Portal. She also said that, if ReAssure was going to ring her, it should let her 
know an hour in advance.
On 8 February 2022, ReAssure acknowledged receipt of the forms and asked Ms F to also 
complete a risk questionnaire.
The next day (9 February 2022), ReAssure replied to Ms Fs recent complaint. Amongst 
other things it acknowledged that it hadn't got everything right. It also accepted it hadn't 
always rang Ms F as agreed. It said her online Portal was active but if she was still having 
issues with it to speak to one of ReAssures team. By way of an apology for its errors it paid 
her £250.
On 8 March 2022 Ms F called ReAssure for an update. ReAssure told her it couldn't accept 
the form shed already submitted as it was the wrong one. So it sent her the correct form 
which she returned. At that point ReAssure said another form  referred to as Form D or the 
Lifetime Allowance: Declaration Form  was outstanding and so asked her to also complete 
that, which she did. On 29 March 2022 ReAssure told Ms F she still needed to complete a 
risk questionnaire. It then told her the certified copy of a bank statement shed provided in 
January was no longer valid (as it wasnt within the last six months) and shed need to 
submit another. It also asked her for proof of her National Insurance number. She provided 
those.
On 12 April 2022 ReAssure confirmed it had paid Ms Fs pension funds into her chosen bank 
account. It also arranged for a tax form P45 to be sent to her to help her reclaim tax from 
HMRC. Ms F continued to say that she hadn't received her P45 and couldn't reclaim tax as a 
result. In July 2022 the P45 was returned to ReAssure undelivered. In September 2022 
ReAssure arranged for the P45 to be reissued to her.
Ms F brought her complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked into it. He didnt think 
ReAssure had dealt with Ms F fairly. He initially said that he didnt believe that ReAssure had 
enclosed the required forms when it wrote to Ms F on 20 October 2021 and that had caused 
a delay. But, after ReAssure provided further comment saying it had included the 
appropriate forms, the Investigator revisited his findings. He still thought ReAssure hadn't 
dealt with Ms F fairly. He said that if it had then it could have begun the disinvestment of her 
pension funds as of 25 January 2022. So he said ReAssure should establish what Ms F 
would have received if it had withdrawn her pension funds on 25 January 2022. And, if this 
showed shed suffered a loss, it should add simple interest at a rate of 8% a year, from 
25 January 2022 up until the date when Reassure made payment to Ms F. He also said 
ReAssure should pay Ms F a further £150 compensation for the impact of its poor service.
Ms F didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint so it's been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In arriving at my determination Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.And, while I've considered all the evidence on file, I dont intend to address each and every 
point or issue raised. Instead I will focus my decision on what I see as being the key issues 
at the heart of the complaint Ms Fs originally made to ReAssure and the reasons for my 
decision.
Did ReAssure cause delays?
Ms F initially approached ReAssure for advice about accessing her pension in May 2021. 
But thats not when she began the process of actually cashing it. ReAssure told her on more 
than one occasion that, to start the process, she would need to ring it so that it could read 
her some regulatory information. Ms F didnt take that action until October 2021. So I think 
thats when the process began.
I'm aware that Ms F was having problems accessing her online Portal, which would have 
given her the value of her funds, prior to then. But, she always had the option of asking 
ReAssure how much her funds were worth over the phone if shed wanted to. So I dont think 
ReAssure is responsible for any delay before October 2021.
Ms F said that ReAssure didn't enclose the appropriate paperwork when it wrote to her on 
20 October 2021. In contrast ReAssures said its evidence is that it did send her the forms. I 
made some further enquiries of ReAssure. It provided evidence that, not only had it posted 
the forms to Ms F on 20 October 2021 but it had also provided those by email. So even if 
ReAssure had overlooked to actually include the forms in the envelope it sent to her in 
October 2021, Ms F should have been able to download and print those from the email 
ReAssure sent to her.
Further, I've noted that in an email of 8 March 2022 Ms F said that she had received the 
package (containing the forms) from ReAssure in October 2021. And I don't think she'd 
have made that remark if the papers hadn't been enclosed. So, I think ReAssure did send 
forms to Ms F in October 2021, although it later sent those again the following month. But I 
dont think any delay in Ms F receiving those is because of anything ReAssure did wrong.
ReAssure couldnt actually begin the process to withdraw and pay the funds to Ms F until it 
had received all the appropriate paperwork. It clearly received some completed papers from 
Ms F on 5 January 2022. At that point it should have identified what, if any, additional 
information it required from her and asked for it all in one request. But it didnt do that. 
Instead it made piecemeal requests for information, which only contributed to delays in it 
sorting things out. So I've thought about when ReAssure should reasonably have been able 
to conclude the process.
As I've said above, ReAssure was in a position to process the pension benefit forms on 
5 January 2022. It has a ten working day service standard for taking necessary follow up 
action. So, by 19 January 2022 ReAssure should have made a request for anything and 
everything else that it needed from Ms F. For example, at that point Ms F still hadn't 
completed the Form D, although the pack ReAssure sent to her clearly said this needed 
completing. It also later became apparent that the forms it had sent to her were out of date 
and that it would need her to complete a risk questionnaire. But ReAssure didn't request 
further information from Ms F until 8 February 2022. And then, as I've said above, it didnt 
request all the outstanding information at one time but made numerous requests for the 
outstanding evidence in a piecemeal fashion. I can understand if Ms F found this frustrating.
Ms F provided most of the evidence ReAssure asked her for without significant delay. But it 
requested the last two pieces of evidence it required on 29 March 2022 and Ms F provided 
those (via her financial adviser) on 4 April 2022. A gap of four working days.So, if ReAssure had requested everything it needed from Ms F on 19 January 2022, and she 
had replied within four working days, then ReAssure could have released her pension funds 
by 25 January 2022. But ReAssure didnt begin that process for some months and, during 
that time-frame, Ms F says that, owing to volatilities in the markets, her pension fund lost 
value. In order to find out if thats the case I think ReAssure should establish what Ms Fs 
pension fund would have been worth if she had withdrawn it on 25 January 2022.
And, as she didnt received that sum at the time and so didnt have the benefit of it ReAssure 
should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from 25 January 2022 up to the 
date it actually made its pension payment to her, which I believe was 12 April 2022.
Further, if the pension payable to Ms F from 25 January 2022, is higher than the figure it 
paid to her in April 2022, then Ms F has suffered a loss from that date. In that case, 
ReAssure should pay her the difference, subject to the appropriate tax deduction and add 
simple interest to the difference between the two sums from 12 April 2022 until the date it 
makes payment to her. It should also give Ms F the appropriate tax certificate so she can 
reclaim any tax from HMRC as appropriate.
Ms F has commented that, from her starting the process in May 2021 to when ReAssure 
actually made payment to her, her fund reduced owing to movement in the financial markets. 
However, as ReAssure wasnt in a position to begin that process before 5 January 2022, I 
dont think any losses caused by a reduction in her pension funds prior to that date is 
because of anything ReAssure got wrong.
Ms Fs said that any compensatory payment should be adjusted to consider the difference in 
currency conversion rates because of the fall in the value of the pound sterling against the 
currency she uses now. But I dont think thats appropriate. Ms F took out the pension when 
she lived in the UK. It was subject to UK tax rules and always intended to be paid in pounds 
sterling. And ReAssure paid the sum into Ms Fs UK bank account. That Ms F has since 
chosen to live abroad, and is therefore subject to the volatilities of the currency markets, isn't 
something ReAssure is responsible for. So I wouldn't expect ReAssure to increase Ms Fs 
pension entitlement because the currency markets aren't currently favourable to the 
currency she uses now. In a similar way, had the currency position been different, I wouldn't 
have thought it was fair for ReAssure to have reduced her pension entitlement if the pound 
sterling had gained in value against her chosen currency.
Tax forms
Ms F complained that ReAssure didnt arrange for a P45 to be sent to her promptly delaying 
her reclaiming overpaid tax. However, ReAssure actually arranged for the issue of the P45 
immediately after making payment to her in April 2022. It was sent in the post to the P.O. 
Box delivery address Ms F uses. Its apparent this P45 was returned in July 2022 annotated 
P.O.BOX CLOSED by the relevant postal service. It's not clear why that was as it was sent 
to the same delivery address Ms F used throughout the process and from where she did 
receive the P45 in September 2022. So I don't think the delay in Ms F receiving the P45 was 
because of anything ReAssure got wrong.
Account audit
Ms F said that it is the duty of this Service to undertake an audit of her pension account. She 
said it is our duty to ensure that, when her funds transferred from her previous product 
provider to ReAssure, that ReAssure had calculated those correctly and had not changed 
funds. But thats not something we will do. Our role is limited to investigating and 
determining whether or not a firm like ReAssure has responded fairly and reasonably to a consumer's complaint, which falls within our remit. And before we would consider looking 
into a complaint we would have expected the consumer to give the business the chance to 
investigate and respond to it.
In this case, I've seen no evidence, in the papers that Ms F or ReAssure provided, that she 
complained to ReAssure that it had miscalculated her pension or swapped the funds 
inappropriately. And, as this isn't something that ReAssure has had the opportunity to 
respond to, if Ms F still wants to pursue the matter she should raise it with ReAssure in the 
first instance.
Distress and inconvenience
ReAssure has previously acknowledged that some of its service wasnt up to the standard it 
would hope to achieve. For example it accepted Ms F had problems accessing her online 
Portal. It also acknowledged that it didnt always make phone calls as expected. It paid her 
£250 compensation for the impact of those things. But, as Ive indicated above, I think 
ReAssure has made the process more difficult than it needed to be for Ms F. For example, it 
made multiple piecemeal requests to her for information rather than identifying everything 
she needed to provide at one point in time and simply asking for that. As a result, the 
process took far longer than it should have done. So I think ReAssure should pay Ms F an 
additional £150 to address the further distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
I'm aware Ms F doesn't think that sum goes far enough. But, when added to the £250 
ReAssure has already paid to her that brings the total to £400. That figure is consistent with 
awards we make where the firms actions have cause considerable distress over a period of 
weeks and has required some extra effort to sort out. So I'm satisfied its appropriate redress 
in the circumstances.
Developments 
ReAssure accepted my provisional decision. Ms F raised some questions about our decision 
publication process. She also said that I hadn't read her complaint. She said she hadn't 
asked for a tax certificate but only for a P45 which ReAssure hadn't sent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F said I hadn't read all of her complaint. I can assure Ms F that I read all of the evidence 
on file and gave it careful consideration. I note Ms F has said that she didnt ask for a tax 
certificate but only asked for a P45. However, I didn't say Ms F asked for a tax certificate. 
But I did say that if ReAssure calculates Ms F has suffered a loss and it deducts tax from 
any compensation it pays to her, then it should give her the appropriate tax certificate, to 
allow her to reclaim any tax deducted.
Further Ms F said that shed asked for a P45 and has shown evidence that ReAssure didnt 
send this promptly. Its evident Ms F did not receive the P45 which ReAssure issued in 
April 2022. But, as I said in my provisional decision, I've seen clear evidence the relevant 
postal service in Ms Fs country of residence returned that P45  issued in April 2022  
undelivered because it said Ms Fs P.O. Box was closed. I dont think that was because of 
any mistakes by ReAssure. And I'm satisfied from the persuasive evidence on file that 
ReAssure did send the P45 promptly in April 2022.Ms F asked where we publish our decisions. I can confirm they are published on our website 
and Ms F can access those here: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/decisions-case-
studies/ombudsman-decisions. We anonymise our decisions so that consumers can't be 
identified.
Ms Fs suggested that she doesn't give her consent for us to publish this decision unless we 
add her commentary to it. We let Ms F know that we publish ombudsmens final decisions 
when we sent her our Privacy notice when she first brought her complaint to us. We also 
advised her we would publish the decision when the case was prepared to pass to me. 
Under the rules we must follow1 were legally obliged to publish final decisions, so we dont 
need Ms Fs consent in order to publish it. 
I will also explain that if she accepts my final decision, then it becomes legally binding on 
ReAssure. So, once she has accepted it ReAssure will arrange to pay compensation at that 
stage. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint. I require ReAssure Life Limited to:
Establish what Ms Fs pension entitlement would have been at 25 January 2022. It 
should pay her interest on that figure, at a rate of 8% a year, between 
25 January 2022 and the date it actually made a pension payment to her, which I 
believe was 12 April 2022.
If the sum payable from 25 January 2022 is higher than the figure it eventually paid to 
Ms F in April 2022, then Ms F has suffered a loss. In those circumstances ReAssure 
should pay Ms F the difference, subject to any appropriate tax deduction. It should 
add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from 12 April 2022 to the date it 
makes payment to her.
Give Ms F a tax certificate  to allow her to reclaim any tax deducted from the above 
amounts  from HMRC as appropriate
Pay Ms F a further £150 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 These are generally known as the DISP rules and can be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. 
The specific rule concerning decision publication is DISP 3.6.8 