DRN-1779372
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has turned down a
storm damage claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs J made a claim to RSA for storm damage. Following bad
weather, water had leaked through their roof and damaged cupboards and a bed.
RSA asked its surveyor to look at the damage to Mr and Mrs Js roof to see if it was covered
by the policy. The surveyors report said the water ingress was caused by the gutters
becoming overwhelmed. The report also said the damage had happened over time. So RSA
turned down the claim using the exclusion in the policy for things that happen gradually and 
wear and tear.
Mr and Mrs J werent happy with RSAs decision. They asked two independent experts
(whom Ill call A and B) to look at the roof and check the cause of the damage. Both A and B 
said the water ingress hadnt been caused by the gutters. A didnt suggest whatd caused
the leak. But B did suggest heavy rain had caused water to go down through the roof/ceiling. 
He said this was due to the wood battens rotting and the felt perishing, which he said had 
caused the damp.
RSA didnt change its decision on Mr and Mrs J claim. It said there hadnt been storm
conditions recorded on or around the date the damage happened. It also said the type of
roof damage B had found had happened gradually over a period of time, which was
specifically excluded by the policy terms. Mr and Mrs J asked us to look at their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Js complaint should be upheld. He said the rainfall
around the date of the damage was heavy enough to be considered a storm. He thought the
evidence suggested the damage thatd happened was consistent with storm conditions. He
believed the storm was the main cause of the damage. And he didnt think there was enough 
evidence to suggest the damage had happened over time.
RSA disagreed with the investigator. It disagreed there were storm conditions around the
date of the claim. It argued it would take a long time for the battens and felt to rot and perish. 
So it said the damage had been caused by bad weather over a period of years, rather than a 
one-off event of storm. And it argued there was no clear evidence of cracked or broken tiles 
on the roof. It asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 March 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair for RSA to turn down Mr and Mrs J's claim. I said:
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to
ask: Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
RSA hasnt defined what it means by a storm in its policy. Where an insurer hasnt included
a definition of what a storm is in its policy wording, wed generally say that a storm involves
violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. So this is what Ive thought about
when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or around the date of Mr and Mrs Js
claim.
Ive carefully considered local weather reports for around the time of the claim to see if there
were prevailing storm conditions. I can see there were periods of low temperatures and
occasional reasonably strong gusts of wind. But there was nothing in the few months before
the claim to suggest there were violent winds, accompanied by rain, hail or snow.
So I turned to look at the weather report for the week the claim was made. I can see that the
highest wind speed was 43 mph. While these might be strong winds, I dont think theyre
high enough to be considered as storm conditions.
There was heavy rainfall recorded over a 24-hour period on the day Mr and Mrs J made the
claim; but it doesnt look like storm force winds accompanied it. And without strong winds,
Im not persuaded that the rainfall was of sufficient intensity to be considered as a storm.
Overall, having considered the evidence, I dont think there were storm conditions on or
around the date of the claim. This means the answer to the first question is no. And so I
currently think it was reasonable for RSA to turn down Mr and Mrs Js storm claim
The cause of the water ingress
While I think RSA has treated Mr and Mrs J fairly in turning down their storm claim, Ive also
looked at the likely cause of the water ingress. I know Mr and Mrs J feel strongly about the
fact that both A and B disagreed with RSAs surveyor that the gutters were the cause of
water getting in through the roof. They got reports from independent roofing experts in an
effort to show their claim should be paid.
Ive looked carefully at the reports provided by both A and B. A didnt give a possible cause 
of the ingress. But B did. Bs report said:
Due to the recent heavy rain, which has resulted in water going down through the
chimney/roof ceiling into the bedroom, due to the wood batton's (sic) rotting and the felt
perishing and that this has caused the damp.
Generally, a well-maintained roof should be able to withstand periods of heavy rainfall,
especially if theyre not accompanied by storm force winds. In this case, water got in through 
the roof and caused internal damage.
Looking at Bs report, it seems to me that the damage to the roof was already present when
the bad weather began and that the heavy rainfall simply highlighted the damage that was
already there. It would take some time for wooden battens to rot and the felt to perish. It
doesnt seem likely that this kind of damage couldve happened as the result of a one-off
event of storm. It looks like it happened gradually over a period of time. The surveyorsreport also says there was no evidence of cracked or broken tiles, which would be the type
of damage wed typically expect to see if a roof had been damaged by storm conditions.
Ive looked carefully at Mr and Mrs Js policy. Under the Policy Exclusions section of the
policy it says:
This insurance does not cover:
WEAR AND TEAR
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused directly or indirectly by or
resulting from wear and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting, damp, insects, vermin, fungus, 
condensation, fading, frost or anything which happens gradually, (my emphasis) the
process of cleaning, dyeing, repair, alteration, renovation or restoration.
The policy also excludes:
ROT
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by rot whether or not
this is caused directly or indirectly by any other cover included in this insurance.
Given I think Bs report suggests the roof damage happened gradually over a period of time,
I think the claim wouldve been excluded by the policy terms even if I had decided there were 
storm conditions. And the rot to the wooden battens would also have been excluded by the 
terms of the policy.
So overall, I think RSA has considered Mr and Mrs Js claim fairly. I currently dont think
there were storm conditions on or around the date of claim. And even if there had been; I
think the claim wouldve been excluded by the policy terms because I think the damage
happened gradually over time.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider by 23 April 2020.
RSA accepted my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed with my provisional decision. They said they were very disappointed 
by my findings. They'd provided factual evidence that the water damage hadn't been caused 
by the gutters overflowing. They said RSA's caseworker's professionalism had been insulting 
and that they'd been told the surveyor's report wasn't worth the paper it was written on. They 
also said I hadn't considered the damage to their wardrobe.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Whilst I'm sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs 
J, I've decided it was fair for RSA to turn their storm damage claim.
I'd like to reassure Mr and Mrs J that I carefully considered the expert evidence they 
provided me with. But as I explained in my provisional decision, there are three questions I 
need to ask when I consider complaints about storm damage. The first of those questions is 
'were there storm conditions on or around the date of claim?'
In this case, the local weather reports for around the date of Mr and Mrs J's storm claim 
didn't show any prevailing storm conditions. While there was heavy rain on the day Mr and 
Mrs J made the claim, this wasn't accompanied by storm winds. And I'm still not persuaded 
that the rainfall by itself was sufficiently intense enough to be considered as a storm.So this means I'm still satisfied that the answer to the question is no, there weren't storm 
conditions on or around the date of claim. And it's for this reason I think it was fair for RSA to 
turn down Mr and Mrs J's claim.
Mr and Mrs J have queried why the damage to their cupboards wasn't covered. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, their policy excludes damage which happens gradually, 
over time. Having considered all the available evidence, and in particular, the reports from 
roofer B and RSA's surveyor, I think it's most likely their internal damage was caused 
gradually, over time. So I think it's excluded by the policy terms.
I understand Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the professionalism of one of RSA's 
caseworkers. This is something they haven't previously raised with RSA, so they'll need to 
complain separately about this issue before we're potentially able to look into this.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
don't uphold Mr and Mrs J's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman