DRN-2019607
 
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about how OVO (S) Home Services Limited, trading as SSE Home 
Services Limited (SSE), dealt with a claim for his boiler under his home emergency 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S contacted SSE to report that noises were coming from his boiler. As he was due a 
boiler service, this was arranged for the next day and SSE said the engineer would look at 
the issue during the visit. However, when the engineer visited, he said that he wasnt aware 
of the boiler noise issue and only had time to complete the service.
It then took several further visits by SSE to deal with the boiler noise. After SSEs final visit, 
there was a strong smell of gas. Mr S contacted the gas network, which sent an emergency 
gas engineer. The engineer found a gas leak.
When Mr S complained to SSE, it didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it had taken several 
visits to repair the boiler because initially it couldnt find a fault and then when a fault was 
found, it had to order parts. It said that it was aware that a gas leak had been found but that 
as the gas emergency engineer had fixed the issue, this suggested that the leak wasnt 
severe.
Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator said that SSE could have done more to 
resolve the issue with the boiler and that it more likely than not caused the gas leak. He said 
SSE should pay Mr S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
As Mr S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 10 June 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Looking at the issue with the boiler, this clearly took a long time to resolve. The first visit by 
SSE was to carry out a boiler service. This was under a service contract, which isnt covered 
by our service as it isnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Im therefore unable to 
comment on the visit itself. However, I accept that Mr S had an expectation that SSE would 
deal with the boiler noise at that visit and that this was the first in a series of visits by SSE to 
deal with his boiler.
When Mr S contacted SSE again about the boiler noise, it sent an engineer to look at the 
issue. The engineer diagnosed that the expansion vessel needed recharging. He did this, 
ran some tests and didnt find any other faults. The boiler was functioning when the engineer 
left. However, about two months later another engineer visited because the boiler was still 
making noises. The engineers notes record that he didnt find an issue, but that he wasnt 
provided with any previous history for the job, so didnt have any other information to inform 
him. Another engineer visited about a month later because the boiler was still making noises. 
He diagnosed the likely issue and ordered new parts. About a week later, two engineers 
visited to fit the new parts. During that visit, they identified that a new pump was also 
required. This was ordered and fitted the same day.
As a result of all of the above, it took about four months to identify and deal with the issue. 
This is clearly a significant amount of time and I can understand that Mr S found this 
frustrating and unsatisfactory. In addition, the visit where the engineer wasnt given any 
background information by SSE is likely to have made it harder for him to look at the issue in 
context and to make any progress with resolving the underlying problem. I also note that 
once the problem was properly diagnosed, SSE quickly dealt with it, including ordering an 
additional part and fitting it the same day.
However, Im aware that Mr Ss main concern is about the gas leak and the potential 
consequences of this. When SSE left Mr Ss home, the records show that the boiler had 
passed the gas safety checks. The same day, Mr S phoned the gas network to report a gas 
leak. An emergency gas engineer arrived soon after and found a leak. Based on what Mr S 
has said, and the circumstances of the case, I think that it is more likely than not that there 
was a gas leak as a result of SSEs visit.
Mr S says that the emergency gas engineer told him that it was a major gas leak. SSE has 
said that it was likely that it was a minor gas leak because the engineer was able to deal with 
it on site. The gas network doesnt provide records of its visits. Regardless, I can understand 
that Mr S was extremely concerned about the gas leak and the potentially serious 
consequences if it hadnt been dealt with promptly.
I am aware that Mr S wants action to be taken against SSE as a result of the gas leak. I 
understand that Mr S has already raised his concerns about the gas leak with the gas 
network and that he has confirmed that the appropriate body was notified. It would be for 
those organisations to decide what action, if any, needed to be taken as a result.
I am also aware that Mr S wants £1,000 compensation as a result of the gas leak. However, 
it isnt the role of this service to fine or punish a business - that is the role of the regulator. 
The role of this service is to look at whether SSE acted reasonably and fairly and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. Thinking about the full circumstances of the 
case, Im currently of the view that SSE could have done more to address the issue with the 
boiler. As a result, Im minded to say that SSE should pay Mr S £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused with resolving his claim. In addition, the gas leak was 
likely to have increased Mr Ss gas bill. SSE should also therefore refund Mr S £10 for any 
extra cost on his gas bill.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 10 July 2020.
SSE responded and accepted my decision.
Mr S raised a query about how this service awards compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in line with my previous findings.Putting things right
SSE must pay Mr S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
resolving his claim. In addition, the gas leak was likely to have increased Mr Ss gas bill. 
SSE must also therefore refund Mr S £10 for any extra cost on his gas bill.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint about OVO (S) Home Services Limited, trading as SSE Home Services Limited 
(SSE) is upheld. It is required to:
Pay Mr S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
Refund Mr S £10 for his gas bill.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman