DRN-3866681
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr Z are complaining Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has declined 
a claim they made on their all risks buildings insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont set them out in 
detail. But, in summary, in March 2021, Mrs S and Mr Z contacted RSA to make a claim for 
damage to their flooring. They said in May 2020 theyd noticed that the wood floor in the 
kitchen/diner of the lower ground floor had started to buckle and lift. They arranged for their 
own contractor who they said had concluded rain was coming under the patio doors. The 
contractor carried out repairs to prevent any further water ingress. Mrs S and Mr Z want RSA 
to replace the damaged flooring.
RSA arranged for the property to be inspected by two companies. The surveyor  who I shall 
refer to as E  concluded that it is most likely that there has been a problem with the 
effectiveness of the installed tanking to this lower ground floor area since the kitchen 
alterations were carried out, and certainly prior to the inception date of the policy. And the 
surveyor said the damage was consistent with a continual and repeated inundation of 
water over a longer period of time.
RSA declined the claim as it said the terms of the policy excludes damage thats occurred 
gradually. Mrs S and Mr Z didnt think this was fair and referred their complaint to this 
service.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
The terms of the policy covers loss or damage (such as the damage to the flooring), but 
also set out that the policy doesnt cover loss or damage that happens gradually. 
Es report sets out that such severe damage would not occur as a result of a one off 
escape of water incident, but instead the damage in this instance clearly reflects 
continual and repeated inundation over a much longer timescale.
Its accepted that there is a defect to the tanking that was used to protect the 
underground walls from water ingress which has ultimately caused the damage. 
While I acknowledge Mrs S and Mr Z were not aware of the ongoing water ingress, Im 
not persuaded that the damage has arisen from a single unexpected event  such as a 
storm or crack in a pipe.
Ive also considered that Mrs S and Mr Z obtained a homebuyers survey in April 2018 
when they bought the property that didnt highlight these issues. But Im also conscious 
that this was two years before the damage was first noticed. So, this doesnt mean the 
damage didnt happened gradually over time.
Ultimately, I dont think its unreasonable for RSA to say its not responsible for the damage 
to the floor due to long-term ingress of water as the policy specifically excludes damage that 
happens gradually. Ive thought about whether its also fair and reasonable for RSA to be 
able to rely on this term and Im satisfied it is in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S and Mr Zs representative (Mr P) didnt agree with my provisional decision and, in 
summary, he said the following:
The insurance policy had been running since Mrs S and Mr Z bought the property and 
there wasnt anything to show that there were issues before they bought the property  
as highlighted by the survey
The terms of the contract were not clear. Mr P said theres a requirement that terms are 
clear and not misleading. He queried what was actually meant by gradual and 
questioned whether this meant days, weeks, months or years. He said he didnt think 
this was clear cut and highlighted that it had taken a number of experienced insurance 
professionals from several companies to review this case, so he didnt think it was fair for 
RSA to rely on an ambiguous term. And he highlighted that RSA hadnt included the 
terms in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID).
There had been significant delays in the handling of the claim, with numerous occasions 
of RSA not keeping Mrs S and Mr Z updated. The representative also said that RSA had 
missed numerous deadlines.
RSA didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr Ps comments into account, but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in 
my provisional decision.
I acknowledge Mr Ps highlighted that the gradual operating clause wasnt highlighted in 
the IPID document, but I dont think this was unreasonable. Insurers are expected to 
highlight significant and unusual terms outside of the main policy terms which is the intended 
purpose of the IPID document. Most  if not all  buildings insurance policies (including all 
risk policies) include a term that says insurers dont cover loss or damage that happens over 
time. I dont consider this unreasonable or unusual. I also dont think such a term is likely to 
impact a consumers decision making. So I dont think its a significant or unusual term. It 
follows, therefore, that I dont think RSA needed to highlight it outside of the terms and 
conditions.
Mr P has also suggested that the term is ambiguous and not clear, but I dont agree. The 
policy terms say:
Uninsurable risks
 wear and tear, corrosion; fungus; moth or vermin; mould; wet or dry rot or anything which 
happens gradually;
I acknowledge the term is included alongside other uninsurable risks  such as loss or 
damage caused by fungus or vermin, but I dont think a reasonable person would consider 
anything which happens gradually to not be clear or be misleading. The purpose of this 
exclusion is that RSA intends to cover single and unexpected events  which is the purpose 
of a buildings insurance policy. I think its clear that the policy isnt intended to cover loss or 
damage that happens over time. And Im satisfied that the policy sets this out.
Ultimately, for the reasons I set out in my provisional, I still remain of the opinion that it 
wasnt unreasonable for RSA to decline the claim on the basis that the damage occurred gradually. And Im satisfied that the policy doesnt cover this loss.
Finally, I dont disagree with Mr P that the claim took longer than it should have done. But 
Mrs S and Mr Z were informed from early on that the claim wasnt likely to be covered. And 
Im not persuaded theyve lost out due to the time the claim took. So I dont think RSA needs 
to do anything to put things right in this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman