DRN-3181478
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim she
made on her travel insurance policy.
Mrs As represented by Mr A.
What happened
Mrs A booked a package holiday on 3 December 2019, through an agent Ill call T. She was
due to travel on 19 March 2020 until 26 March 2020. She took out a single trip travel
insurance policy on 14 January 2020 to cover her forthcoming trip.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a
pandemic. It seems T verbally advised Mrs B that the trip would need to be cancelled on 14
March 2020. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO
formerly known as the FCO), advised against all but essential travel abroad as a result of the
Covid-19 pandemic. T ultimately refunded 75% of the trip costs. So Mrs A made a claim on
her travel insurance policy for the remaining cancellation balance.
Great Lakes turned down Mrs As claim. It said the policy didnt cover cancellation claims
which happened because of a change in FCDO advice. It also said the policy specifically
excluded claims which happened because of government action.
Mrs A was unhappy with Great Lakes decision and so Mr A asked us to look into her
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mrs As complaint should be upheld. He accepted that the policy
didnt cover cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice. But he noted that the policy
specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. This
meant Mrs A wouldnt have been covered if she cancelled and she wouldnt be covered if
she travelled. He didnt think the policy terms made the combined effect of these terms clear.
And he considered that if Mrs A had been aware that she wouldnt be covered if FCDO
guidance changed before she travelled, she wouldve been unlikely to take out the policy.
Ultimately, in this case, he was satisfied that Mrs A had made reasonable attempts to
recover her money from T and so he felt it would be fair for Great Lakes to assess Mrs As 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mrs As claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mrs As policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether Great Lakes
treated her fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mrs A found herself in was completely
unprecedented and outside of her control. I also understand, that when the insurance was
purchased in January 2020, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19
couldnt have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mrs A are limited by the terms, conditions
and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mrs As policy says that Great Lakes will pay for a policyholders unused and non-refundable
cancellation costs if they have to cancel their trip because of one of a list of specific insured
events. The Cancellation section of Mrs As policy says Great Lakes will pay such costs if a
trip is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have arranged
to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of your
outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or being
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under current
legislation applicable within your home country.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary, flooding
or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours before the start of
your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all but
essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or hurricane.
Theres no dispute that Mrs As trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. This
means her claim isnt covered under the Cancellation section of her policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mrs As insurance policy. But in this case, I dont
think she held cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances she found herself in.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mrs As policy wouldnt have provided cover if
shed travelled against FCDO advice. He thought this left Mrs A in an unfair position. There
may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for
changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think it
was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and
conditions.
However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Great Lakes to do so
here. I say that because the cancellation form Mrs A submitted to Great Lakes says that T
verbally cancelled her trip on 14 March 2020. This was three days before the FCDO advised
all but essential travel abroad. And as Ive explained, I simply dont think it was unfair for
Great Lakes to conclude that her claim wasnt covered by any of the policy terms. So on this
basis, Im currently satisfied it was reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down the claim.
Ive also noted that Mrs As trip was booked as part of a package. Generally, a package
holiday would be considered to be holiday contracts that include two or more travel services,
which are combined for the purposes of the same trip. The travel provider is liable for the
performance of these services. Ive looked closely at the booking invoice T provided to Mrs
A. I can see that she booked her flights; accommodation and transfers through T as part of
an overall trip. So I think it would be fair for Great Lakes to treat the trip as a packageholiday.
The Package Holiday and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) provide
protection for consumers who buy package holidays. Effectively, they say that the travel
provider is responsible for providing a full refund for holidays which cant be provided. In this
case, T has refunded 75% of the trip costs, but has retained 25% of the balance because it
says the flights were still running.
It isnt clear to me whether T factored in PTR 13 (3) which is an implied term in every
package holiday contract. This says that travel providers should provide a full refund if they
terminate a contract. I appreciate Mr A has said T told him that it has the backing of a travel
body to limit its refund, but it remains unclear to me why T wasnt prepared to refund Mrs As
full trip costs, given the PTR suggests it has a legal obligation to do so.
Ive thought carefully about everything both parties have provided here. But Ive not seen a
persuasive explanation as to why the PTR didnt apply to the whole of Mrs As booking. Im
also aware that Mrs A accepted Ts without prejudice offer in full and final settlement of her
claim against it.
Ive considered all of the above factors very carefully. Given the fact the claim isnt covered
by the policy and that the FCDO wasnt advising against all but essential travel at the point of
verbal cancellation by T, I simply dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me, in these
circumstances, to direct Great Lakes to depart from a strict application of the contract and to
pay the claim outside of the policy terms. This means I currently think it was fair for Great
Lakes to turn down Mrs As claim.
I asked both parties to provide me any additional evidence they wanted me to consider.
Great Lakes didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr A disagreed with my provisional findings. He didnt think there was much to add apart 
from the inefficiency in Great Lakes in recording that the insurance had been cancelled 
before the flight had been due to take place. He also referred to the fact that matters were 
taken out of Mrs As hands. Theyd also been concerned with company financial solvency 
issues, given the large number of cancellation claims which were being made at the time. He 
said Mrs A hoped for a fair outcome to the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A, Ive decided it was fair for Great Lakes 
to turn down her claim and Ill explain why.
First, I appreciate Mr A has referred to Mrs A cancelling the policy with Great Lakes prior to 
the date she was due to fly. But it doesnt appear that this was raised with Great Lakes as 
part of Mrs As original complaint. That means I cant look into it as part of this decision. If 
Mrs A would like to get in touch with Great Lakes to ask it to consider whether or not to 
refund any of the premium she paid for the policy, its open to her to do so. if shes unhappy 
with Great Lakes response, we may potentially be able to look into a new complaint about 
that issue alone.
As I outlined in my provisional decision, I do accept Mrs As holiday was cancelled for 
reasons outside of her control and I dont doubt how frustrating it mustve been when her cancellation claim was turned down. I also appreciate that Mrs A was worried about the 
future solvency of the travel company, given the impact Covid-19 had on the travel industry. 
But it remains the case that Mrs As claim simply isnt covered by the terms of her policy. 
And as Ive explained, it appears that Mrs As travel agent cancelled her holiday prior to the 
FCDO advising UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. So in these 
circumstances, Im still persuaded that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to direct Great Lakes 
to pay the claim outside of the policy terms.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mrs As position, I find it was fair for Great Lakes to turn 
down her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman