DRN-4439298
The complaint
Ms R has complained that Agria Pet Insurance Ltd didnt cancel a pet insurance policy when 
she had instructed it to and that it had continued to collect the policy premium payments. 
What happened
Agria says on 2 March 2020 Ms Rs ex-partner called to transfer two insurance policies into 
Ms Rs name as she would be taking the dogs with her when she moved out of the property 
they were currently living in. He said she was still living at the policy address at that time.
In June 2023 Ms R noticed that Agria was still taking payments from her in respect of one of 
the policies. She discovered that the policy hadnt been updated and was still in her ex-
partners name with the old address. She thought that shed cancelled both policies in March 
2020 and shed previously given Agria her new address.
Agria says that on 20 March 2020 Ms R called to confirm shed agreed to have the policies 
put into her name and new direct debit mandates were set up for the premiums. During the 
call Ms R confirmed she was still living at the address held on the policy.
Agria says that it tried to collect the premium for one of the policies on 24 March 2020 but 
the monthly payment wasnt paid with Agria being told that the reason was invalid 
mandate. In April 2020 Agria cancelled that policy due to non-payment. It sent several 
letters about this to the policy address. It said the letters werent returned.
It did receive the monthly payments from Ms Rs bank account for the other policy. It said it 
sent renewal documentation every year from 2021 to the policy address and those letters 
werent returned either. It said it had no record of any further contact from Ms R after March 
2020.
In June 2023 the details for the continuing policy were updated and that policy was cancelled 
by Ms R. She asked Agria to refund all the premiums it had collected since March 2020. 
Agria refused, saying that at no point had she instructed it to cancel either policy. Nor had 
she contacted it in the intervening time to update her address. Agria accepted though that it 
should have transferred the policies into her name in March 2020 and apologised for that.
Ms R brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. 
He didnt think Ms R had shown that shed tried to cancel the policies in March 2020.
As Ms R didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Agria acted fairly and reasonably in continuing to collect the 
monthly payments of the premium by direct debit in respect of one of the policies and in not 
refunding them to Ms R.
Agrias system shows that Ms R contacted it on 2 March 2020 to request that the policy be 
transferred into her name. Agria then contacted Ms Rs ex-partner who confirmed he agreed 
to that. On 4 March 2020 Ms R called Agria and set up a new direct debit for payment of the 
premiums. It has no other record of contact from Ms R until June 2023. 
The policy was a type that automatically renewed if the premiums were paid unless it was 
cancelled by the policyholder. Agria has no record of Ms R asking it to cancel the policy 
before June 2023. Ms R has provided no evidence to show that she requested cancellation 
of the policy either. She says she might have called Agria from a withheld work number but if 
so, she cant remember the date. That information isnt sufficient for Agria to trace the call. 
Unfortunately Ms R didnt notice that the premiums were still being collected from her bank 
account.
Im satisfied that Agria acted fairly in continuing to take the premiums from Ms Rs bank 
account. It could reasonably believe that she wanted the policy to continue. So I dont think it 
needs to repay the premiums.
Agria should have transferred the policy into Ms Rs name in March 2020. It failed to do so 
and continued to send renewal documents to her ex-partner at the policy address. But the 
renewal documents didnt contain any personal information that the ex-partner wouldnt 
already have had, that is details of the insured pet. So in the circumstances I think Agrias 
apology was sufficient.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman