DRN-3996115
The complaint
Mr A complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle 
Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr A entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle in May 2022 to acquire a used 
vehicle. Under the agreement he was required to make a first repayment of around £435 
followed by 58 monthly repayments of around £385 and then a final repayment of around 
£434.
Mr A says that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality. He says he acquired the vehicle and 
was told it would go for an MOT. This happened but there were issues and Mr A was told the 
vehicle would be returned once these were resolved. He says when he collected the vehicle 
there was a light on and as he drove it away it broke down. He says the vehicle was returned 
again and he was told it had been fixed but it broke down again. Mr A says he wants to 
reject the vehicle.
Oodle issued its final response letter in August 2022. It said that it was contacted by the 
dealership about the issues Mr A was experiencing with his vehicle and after confirming 
these with Mr A on 1 July it arranged for an independent inspection to take place. This took 
place on 11 July 2022. The inspection stated that the vehicle was operating in line with the 
expectations of a used vehicle and that it was fit for purpose. Oodle also noted the vehicle 
passed an MOT in June 2022. Oodle said the report noted that the vehicle would benefit 
from a lengthy road test and confirmed that the dealership undertook this. Given the 
outcome of the inspection report Oodle didnt uphold Mr As complaint although it noted that 
it hadnt at times received the service he should have and apologised for this and said 
feedback would be provided. 
Mr A didnt accept Oodles final response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He noted Mr As testimony about the issues 
he had experienced but given the outcome of the independent inspection report he said any 
issues appeared to have been resolved. He said that under the regulations, Oodle had the 
right to repair before rejection and as he hadnt received information about the repairs 
undertaken it wasnt clear whether these were relating to previous failed repairs. However, 
based on the outcome of the inspection report and that there was no evidence of faults after 
this date he didnt think he could reasonably uphold this complaint.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he had given the garage plenty of 
opportunities to repair the vehicle and that he had raised his concerns about the vehicle from 
the outset. He said he had only been able to drive the vehicle for a short period and then had 
to spend money sourcing alternative transport.  
As a resolution hasnt been reached this case has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Mr A acquired a vehicle through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act, Oodle can be held liable if the vehicle 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. When assessing satisfactory quality 
factors such as mileage and age are taken into account. In this case the vehicle Mr A 
acquired was around five years old and had been driven around 38,650 miles.
Given the age and mileage of the vehicle it is reasonable to accept that it would have 
suffered some wear and tear. However this doesnt mean that the vehicle wasnt required to 
be sufficiently durable. Mr A has explained that he was told the vehicle would undergo an 
MOT. He says there were issue with this and repairs required. I do not have details of these 
but note that the vehicle did pass the MOT on 7 June 2022 with the advisories noting wear 
on the front brake discs. Given the vehicles age and mileage I do not find this is 
unreasonable.
Mr A says that when he drove the vehicle away from the MOT there was a light on and the 
vehicle broke down. He says the vehicle was returned and he was told it had been fixed but 
it broke down again. Given Mr As testimony I accept that there were faults with the vehicle 
and given when the arose I find it reasonable to accept that they were present at the point of 
supply. 
When issues are identified within the first 30 days it can be reasonable for a customer to 
reject the vehicle. I can see from the contact notes provided by Oodle that it contacted Mr A 
on 14 June to ask if he had decided to keep the vehicle. On 16 June, the notes show that 
Mr A said he would keep the vehicle if it was fixed. Given this I find it reasonable to accept 
that Mr A had agreed to repairs being undertaken. Further contact was made between Oodle 
and Mr A but this appears to suggest he had accepted the repairs.
On 1 July 2022, Mr A expressed his dissatisfaction with the vehicle and the dealer. The 
complaint about the dealer was noted and Oodle said an independent inspection of the 
vehicle would be arranged. Given Mr A had provided an opportunity for repair to take place 
before this, had the inspection identified ongoing issues that were present from the point of 
supply then I think it could have been reasonable for Mr A to have been allowed to reject the 
vehicle at that point. However, the inspection (carried out on 11 July) didnt find any faults 
with the vehicle. It concluded that the overall general condition is in line with a used working 
vehicle, with no unusual audible noises from the engine, no evidence of fuel leakage, and 
the vehicle is currently deemed to be fit for purpose and meeting minimum MOT standards.
While I note the comments Mr A has made about this inspection, given its conclusions I find, 
on balance, it reasonable to accept that any issues the vehicle may have had, had been 
remedied. As the inspection found the vehicle was found to be of a reasonable standard and 
fit for purpose, I do not find I have enough evidence to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman