DRN-2435244
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a Hire Purchase (HP) Agreement with MI 
Vehicle Finance Limited, trading as Mann Island, was misrepresented.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr L was supplied with a used car through a HP Agreement with Mann Island. 
The agreement was for £14,967.80 over 48 months, with monthly repayments of £228.46. 
Mr L was unhappy with the car and, on 30 July 2020, he raised his issues with the 
dealership whod supplied the car. Mr L complained that the car didnt have factory fitted 
ambient lighting, that it didnt have keyless ignition, and that it didnt have a Sport+ mode. 
The dealership agreed that the car wasnt as advertised. And they offered Mr L a £500 
gesture of goodwill if he wanted to keep the car. And if he didnt, they said he could return it 
and pay a mileage charge.
Mr L was unhappy with this offer and complained to Mann Island that the car had been 
misrepresented. He wanted to be able to return the car and have his deposit refunded. But 
Mann Island didnt agree there was misrepresentation, and they thought the offer made by 
the dealership was reasonable. So they didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. Mr L didnt agree 
with Mann Island and brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the car wasnt advertised as having factory fitted ambient lighting, so 
she didnt think the advert misrepresented this. She said the car was advertised as having 
keyless ignition, which it didnt, but Mr L had told the dealership this wasnt an issue. And he 
didnt complain about this at the point of supply, but some weeks later. So she didnt think 
the keyless ignition had induced Mr L to buy the car.
Finally, the investigator said Mr L had been asked to provide some proof the Sport+ mode 
was missing, and he hadnt done so. So she wasnt satisfied a false statement of fact had 
been made. And, again, she said that Mr L didnt raise it as an issue until some weeks later.
The investigator didnt think the car had been misrepresented to Mr L, or that he was 
induced to buy the car because of certain features. So she didnt think Mann Island had 
done anything wrong and didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr L didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr L was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
This is a complaint about misrepresentation. When considering misrepresentation Im 
looking at two things  whether there was a false statement of fact and, if there was, whether 
it was the false statement of fact that induced Mr L to choose the car.
Ive seen the original advert for the car, and it says the car included ambient lighting, keyless 
ignition and that Sport+ was one of the choices of driving modes. Its not disputed that the 
car has ambient lighting, or that this was retro-fitted rather than being factory fitted. While I 
appreciate that Mr L would prefer this to have been factory fitted, the advert doesnt say the 
ambient lighting had been factory fitted by the manufacturer. Because of this, Im satisfied 
that there was no false statement of fact relating to the ambient lighting.
However, the car was advertised as having keyless ignition, and it didnt. So this is a false 
statement of fact. When Mr L first raised the issues with the car with the dealership, on 30 
July 2020, he didnt mention the lack of keyless ignition. It wasnt until the following day, and 
quite a few emails into the email chain hed exchanged with the dealership, that this was 
mentioned. And in a conversation Mr L had with the dealership later that day he said the 
keyless ignition wasnt a problem.
Based on what Ive seen, although that car was advertised with keyless ignition, Im satisfied 
that Mr L didnt choose this car specifically for the keyless ignition. Or that the keyless 
ignition was a deciding factor in why Mr L chose this car instead of a different one. So Im 
satisfied the false statement of fact about the keyless ignition didnt induce Mr L to choose 
this specific car.
The car was advertised as having a choice of driving modes, which includes Sport+. The 
dealership says this is a standard feature on the car, and it should be present. Ive checked 
the manufacturers website and, as far as I can tell, this is correct. So, if the Sport+ mode 
wasnt working on Mr Ls car, this isnt a misrepresentation issue but a fault with the car.
Mr L was asked to provide some evidence that the Sport+ mode wasnt present/working. He 
hasnt done this, and I havent seen anything to show me he took the car back to the 
dealership so they could investigate this. 
All the evidence Ive seen shows that where any false statements of facts were present, 
these didnt induce Mr L to choose the car. And theres nothing to show that that the Sport+ 
mode isnt present/not working. Because of this, I dont agree that Mann Island should take 
the car back and unwind the finance agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against MI Vehicle Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman