DRN-2089435
The complaint
Mr H says HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for his 
mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy sold in December 1996 to cover a mortgage. It was paid 
for with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. 
I sent Mr H and HSBC a provisional decision on 13 July 2020, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
From the correspondence between Mr Hs solicitors and HSBC, I can see that he did have a 
mortgage to protect.
Neither side still have the original documents from the sale of the PPI, which I think is 
understandable given just how long ago it was, and given that the insurance has long since 
closed. Indeed, under data protection rules, HSBC were required to dispose of unnecessary 
data rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr H doesnt remember choosing PPI, but I also 
think thats understandable given that buying insurance is not often memorable, memories 
fade over time, this sale was particularly long ago, and that he no longer recalled taking out 
the mortgage either. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based 
on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for HSBC to have misled Mr H into having PPI. And 
I have no evidence which shows thats what HSBC did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long ago for 
me to reasonably expect HSBC to be able to produce the sale documents to defend itself 
now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that HSBC misled Mr H here. I think 
its more likely that they followed a relatively normal sales process, offered him a choice, and 
that he chose PPI at the time  though I can completely understand if he no longer recalls 
doing so after such a considerable length of time.
Its not clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr H or not. The requirements were 
stricter on HSBC if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr H, Ive assumed they did. That 
means HSBC had to check the PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, it seems it was. For example, it looks like Mr H was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr H had some benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and 
offered him more comprehensive cover. He also may have had some savings, though 
understandably its not now clear how much those were worth, or how accessible they were, 
or whether they were needed for other things. In any case, the PPI meant he could 
effectively protect his savings and use them for other things. And the mortgage was a very 
significant, long-term commitment. There was no guarantee that Mr H would have the same 
benefits or savings in the years to come, and if he fell behind on the repayments he couldve 
lost his home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for him in protecting his home and 
providing some peace of mind.
Since theres no longer evidence of exactly what was said at the sale, its possible that the 
information HSBC gave Mr H about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. The question, 
then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his mind. But as 
I explained above, Mr H wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and 
it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. The policy was 
competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim, and it looks like it wouldve 
been affordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr H could cancel it at 
any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put 
him off taking out the cover.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
10 August 2020. HSBC had nothing further to add, whereas Mr H made some further 
points, which Ill discuss below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H questioned why the joint accountholder wasnt included in the policy, and whether this 
meant that the policy only covered half the mortgage or shouldve cost half as much.
To clarify, in joint mortgages, it is not the case that each party is responsible for only 50% of 
the mortgage  though I understand this is a common misconception. In a joint mortgage, 
both parties are fully responsible for the whole mortgage. So, for example, if one party went 
missing or passed away, the other party would still have to repay 100% of the mortgage.
For this PPI policy, the customers could choose to either cover both people named on the 
mortgage (assuming both were eligible), or only one. So the reason why the joint party 
wasnt covered here wouldve either been because they werent eligible for PPI or because 
they and Mr H chose to only cover Mr H. Since we dont have the documents from the time, 
I cant say for certain which reason it is, but I can say that only covering one party is really 
quite normal  it is not an indication that the policy was mis-sold. Mr H wouldve still had full 
cover under the policy.
Mr H also suggested that HSBCs administrative issue with the land registry may suggest 
that they had issues in selling the PPI, too. But the sale of the insurance and the 
administration of the registry were two very different things which had little to do with each 
other. So while I understand where Mr H is coming from, I cannot fairly conclude that a 
policy was mis-sold just because there was an unrelated administrative issue elsewhere.
It is possible that HSBC made some errors in the sale  neither side have the original 
documents from the time, so I cant say for certain that no mistakes were made. But as 
I explained in my provisional decision, it looks like this policy wouldve been useful for Mr H based on what Ive seen of his circumstances, and I dont think better information about it 
was likely to have put him off taking it out. And Ive not found any other reason to say that 
this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about HSBC Bank Plc in this 
particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman