DRN-3600316
Complaint
Mrs H has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) 
irresponsibly provided her with a credit card. Shes said the credit card and limit increase 
were unaffordable and led to her ending up in persistent debt.
Background
Mrs H was provided with a credit card, which had an initial credit limit of £1,700.00 in March 
2017. In December 2018, this limit was increased by £1,000.00 to £2,700.00. One of our 
investigators reviewed what Mrs H and Tesco had told us. She thought that Tesco didnt do 
anything wrong when initially providing the credit card but that it shouldnt have increased 
the credit limit. Tesco disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Hs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im partially upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Ill explain why in a bit more detail.
Tesco needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Tesco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs H 
could afford to repay before providing Mrs H with her credit card, any limit increases and her 
loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders 
checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be 
less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in 
the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The credit card Mrs H was initially provided with had a credit limit of £1,700.00. And as this 
was a credit card Tesco was required to understand whether Mrs H could repay around 
£1,700.00 within a reasonable period of time. 
I understand that Mrs H was asked to provide a declaration of her income and she stated it 
was around £2,400.00 a month. I can also see a credit check was carried out which showed 
that Mrs H had 8 active accounts. She had 3 revolving-credit accounts where she was using 
75% of the credit available to her but none of her balances were over the limit. So I think its 
fair to say that Mrs H was using up a substantial portion of her existing revolving credit.   
Nonetheless, Im mindful that Mrs H did provide information on her monthly mortgage 
payments. Taking this into account as well as the fact that this card had a promotional 0% 
balance transfer rate, which meant that it was likely that Mrs H was going to consolidate her 
existing credit card debt, Im satisfied that Tesco was reasonably entitled to conclude that 
Mrs H would be able to repay £1,700.00 in a reasonable period of time. As this is the case, 
Im satisfied that Tescos checks before initially providing Mrs H with her credit card were 
reasonable and proportionate and I dont think it acted unfairly in March 2017. 
 
In December 2018 Tesco increased Mrs Hs limit by a further £1,000.00 taking it to 
£2,700.00. I want to start my consideration of matters relating to the credit limit increase by 
saying that Im not persuaded by Tescos argument regarding Mrs H being able to refuse the 
credit limit increase and the insinuation that her not doing so meant that the limit increase 
was affordable. Im also concerned that Tesco seems to be suggesting that a lesser 
standard, in terms of affordability checks, applies in circumstances where a credit limit 
increase is proactively offered, rather than when a borrower makes an active application.  
The information that Tesco did gather seems to focus more on creditworthiness and the risk 
of it getting its money back, rather than Mrs Hs ability to repay what she was being lent 
within a reasonable period of time. It has relied on Mrs H not having any defaults on any 
other accounts, not being in arrears or over the limit at the time limit increase was offered 
and her not being in persistent debt either. 
I think that Mrs H not being in persistent debt by December 2018 is of limited relevance here. 
Given Mrs H had a promotional 0% interest rate for most of the period between the card 
being provided and the limit increase she would have found it difficult to have paid more in 
interest, fees and charges than what she reduced the capital by. What Tesco has also 
overlooked is that there was nothing in Mrs Hs repayment history up until this point which 
suggested that she could pay what she owed within a reasonable period of time.
 
So I certainly wouldnt go as far as saying that Mrs Hs Tesco account was always managed 
well. At best, what Tesco saw indicated that she was just about servicing her existing debt. 
And, in my view, this, in itself, didnt clearly demonstrate that Mrs H could sustainably repay 
an additional £1,000.00, plus the interest accrued, within a reasonable period of time. 
Equally, the bureau data Tesco is relying on doesnt really indicate that shed made 
substantial inroads into what she owed during the period she had a £1,700.00 limit either. 
And she was still using a high proportion of her existing limits. Indeed, I cant see anything to 
suggest that Tesco gathered any other information about her living expenses.
As this is the case, Ive not been provided with enough to satisfy me that the checks Tesco 
carried out before providing this credit limit increase were reasonable and proportionate. As 
Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before Mrs Hs 
credit limit was increased to £2,000.00, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I 
need to decide whether it is more likely than not that proportionate checks would have told 
Tesco that Mrs H would have been unable to sustainably repay £2,700.00 within a 
reasonable period of time.
I think that Tesco needed to get a better understanding of Mrs Hs income and expenditure 
before increasing her credit limit to £2,700.00. Having looked at Mrs Hs expenditure, its 
clear that she was paying more towards her mortgage than Tesco thought she was. What 
Ive seen, from around the time, suggests most of Mrs Hs income was taken up by her 
existing living costs and repayments to her existing commitments. Indeed, she was 
exceeding her overdraft limit and paying unarranged overdraft charges.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs H would not have been able to repay £2,700.00 within a reasonable period of time and certainly without borrowing further. In these 
circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have alerted Tesco to the fact that Mrs H couldnt afford the credit limit increase in 
December 2018. And so Tesco didnt act fairly and reasonably when it increased Mrs Hs 
credit limit to £2,700.00 in December 2017.
Ive noted Mrs Hs concerns about interest being added to her account while she was on a 
pandemic payment holiday. But as our investigator explained, these payment holidays were 
broad brush arrangements which permitted a lender to charge interest, rather than bespoke 
arrangements tailored to an individuals circumstances and which would be reported on a 
borrowers credit file. So I dont think that Tesco did act unfairly when adding interest to    
Mrs Hs account during her payment holiday and Im not upholding this part of her complaint.
Fair compensation  what Tesco needs to do to put things right for Mrs H
Having carefully considered everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable, in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Hs complaint, for Tesco to put things right in the following way:
rework Mrs Hs credit card account to ensure that from December 2017 interest is 
only charged on the first £1,700.00 outstanding - to reflect the fact that the credit limit 
increase to £2,700.00 shouldnt have been provided. All late payment and over limit 
fees should also be removed. Any extra Mrs H paid should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to her; 
removing any adverse information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file as a result of the 
credit card limit increase.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must give 
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman