DRN-1089677
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC took two payments towards his credit card 
in May 2019. He says Tesco incorrectly took these payments, and he had to put extra funds 
into his account to make sure all his other payments were met.
What happened
Mr L held a credit card account with Tesco which hed set up a monthly direct debit for £25 
to be paid towards it.
After his credit card statement was issued in April 2019, Tesco took a payment of £25 on 1 
May 2019. And after the credit card statement for May 2019 was issued, Tesco took another 
payment on 31 May 2019. Between these two direct debit payments, Mr L says he made a 
further payment of £100 towards his credit card balance.
When Mr L complained to Tesco, in addition to the direct debit payments, he alos said hed 
been given incorrect information about how his credit card statements were sent to him. 
Tesco acknowledged this error and offered Mr L £25 in compensation for this. But Tesco 
didnt think it had done anything wrong by debiting Mr Ls account on 1 May and 31 May 
2019.
Unhappy with Tescos response, Mr L referred his complaint to this service where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think Tesco was wrong to collect 
the direct debits in the way that it did and agreed that Tesco had done enough to put things 
right in relation to the incorrect information Mr L was given.
Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said Tesco shouldnt have 
taken two direct debits in the same month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
From what Ive seen, Mr L set up a monthly direct debit for £25 towards his Tesco credit card 
account. Ive looked at the terms and conditions and also the information about how Tesco 
processes payments on the credit card statement.
The terms and conditions of the credit card show that payment towards the credit card 
balance is due 20 days after the statement - this is what Mr L agreed to when he took the 
credit card facility. I can also see that Mr L was sent statements in April 2019 and May 2019. 
Both those statements state clearly that the direct debit payment will be collected on/around 
1 May 2019 and 31 May 2019 respectively.So while Mr L doesnt believe that Tesco should have taken two payments within a month, I 
think he had sufficient notice on the credit card statements and the relevant terms and 
conditions of when the payments will be taken.
Tesco has also explained that because the credit card statements are generated on the 6th 
of every month, the payment dates are calculated from that date and depending on the 
length of a given month, payment maybe taken more than once in a month as it happened 
here. Tesco has also offered to change Mr Ls statement date to 7th of each month which 
will guarantee that each payment is on a different month. I note that Mr L hasnt accepted 
this change of statement date.
Having thought about everything here, I dont think Tesco made an error in the way that it 
collected the direct debit payments. The payments were collected in line with the terms and 
conditions of the credit agreement and I think Mr L was made reasonably aware of this.
Also, the fact that Mr L made an extra payment of £100 between both payments doesnt 
mean Tesco made an error by taking the payment at the end of May. The £100 extra 
payment was a voluntary payment made by Mr L to reduce his outstanding credit card 
balance.
Its not in dispute that Tesco gave Mr L incorrect information about how his credit card 
statements were sent to him  Tesco admits that Mr Ls statements are sent online and not 
in the post as hed been previously told. Given that Tesco gave Mr L the correct information 
within a short time, I think Tesco did enough to put things right by apologising, giving the 
correct information and offering £25 in compensation for this. 
Overall, I think Tesco didnt do anything wrong in the way it collected the direct debit 
payments for Mr Ls credit card account and Tesco did enough to put things right when it 
made an error with the information it provided to Mr L. So, I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint and make no awards against 
Tesco Personal Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman