DRN-1705000
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr M arranged a mortgage with Santander that started in March 2008. This complaint is 
about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out by Mr M a few months later in November 
2008. Mr M was sold this MPPI policy during a phone call. The policy covered him against 
unemployment only. 
Mr M says through his representatives that during the phone call when the advisor was 
explaining MPPI, he said he didn't want it. He thinks Santander mis-sold the policy to him.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint and I will explain why.
Both Santander and Mr M agree the policy was sold by phone. Theres no call recording 
available but I have been provided with a call script, which Santander says was in use at the 
time. I dont know if the call handler Mr M spoke to wouldve followed the script exactly  but 
I think they are likely to have kept to it broadly. And in the script, theres a clear statement 
the PPI is optional. In addition, the policy was sold a few months after Mr M had his 
mortgage in place, so I think it would have been clear to him that it was optional and 
separate from obtaining credit. 
I havent been given a detailed recollection from Mr M about what happened during the sale 
and how the MPPI policy was added without his knowledge during the phone call. So 
because of this and the documentation I have seen, I am persuaded Mr M was given a 
choice at the time of sale by Santander and he chose it. 
Moving on, I need to consider whether Santander gave advice to Mr M or not during the call. 
There is nothing in the script that suggests to me Santander gave Mr M a tailored 
recommendation. This means Santander didnt have to check it was suitable for him. But it 
did have to give him enough clear information so he could decide for himself if he wanted it. I cant see that the policy was inappropriate for Mr M or that if hed been given clearer 
information he wouldnt have bought the policy. I say this for the following reasons:  
I think Mr M did meet the eligibility criteria at the time of sale and although he says he 
worked through an agency he would have been covered by the terms of the policy.
 
I cant see that Mr M was affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions in the 
policy which mightve made it particularly difficult for some people to make a 
successful claim.
 
I think the policy could have been useful for him. Mr M said he would not be in receipt 
of any sick pay with his employer. So I think the PPI couldve provided him with a 
valuable benefit to protect his home in a time of need.
 
I do acknowledge Mr M's comments about his finances at the time of sale but the 
policy was relatively good value for money. He couldve cancelled the monthly 
premium at any time without losing out financially. 
 
So, overall, although Santander may not have done everything it shouldve, I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped Mr M from buying the PPI. I dont think he has lost out 
because of anything Santander mightve done wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put 
things right. 
 
my final decision
I do not uphold Mr M's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman