DRN-2614719
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK plc failed to provide him with a working chip to 
enable him to use a device linked to his Pingit App. He also complains about poor service.
What happened
Mr H says he applied for Pingit with Barclays. He says that Pingit is an App which enables 
customers to make payments. Payments are funded from a wallet or jar. The Pingit jar 
can be topped up from time to time from the customers own current account. He says 
that one of the key features of Pingit is that customers can purchase a device (or dongle) 
from Barclays which can be used to make low value contactless payments. The device is 
fitted with a chip. He purchased a device from Barclays to enable him to do this.
Mr H says that when he first got Pingit, Barclays incorrectly associated his wifes current 
account with it. He complained about this and three months later he was told it couldnt be 
changed unless he got a new chip for his device.
Mr H says he received the new chip in January 2020, but he says it didnt work. Although 
the Pingit App was now correctly associated with his own current account, he says the chip 
for his device was dead. This meant that the device couldnt be used to make contactless 
payments at retailers.
Mr H logged a fault with Barclays in January 2020. But he says it failed to deal with the 
problem. He says he told it he needed a new chip, but it didnt send him a new chip. Mr H 
says he also became aware at this time that Barclays had closed his savings account and 
transferred the balance from that account into his Pingit jar. He says he didnt ask for this 
to happen and hadnt been informed about it. He says he was told hed be sent a cheque 
for the balance in the savings account.
Mr H complained to Barclays. It looked into his complaint and sent its final response on 24 
January 2020. It said the issues hed raised in September 2019 had been dealt with and 
that matter was closed in November 2019.
Barclays said it had raised a further investigation in January 2020 after hed told it he 
couldnt use his device to make contactless payments. It said that investigation was still 
ongoing.
Barclays also said it had closed his savings account when he hadnt responded to a letter 
it sent him in July 2019. It said that was in line with what it had said it would do. But it 
acknowledged it made an error when it transferred the funds to his Pingit jar instead of 
issuing him with a cheque. It said the money had been transferred into the Pingit jar on 22 
January. It had offered to transfer these funds to another account of his choice, when it 
spoke to him, on 23 January. It was still willing to do that if he provided details of the 
account he wanted the money transferred to.
Barclays said it had already credited his Pingit jar with £50 by way of compensation for 
what happened and it offered to pay him a further £50 for the inconvenience hed 
experienced as a result of what had happened when it hadnt sent him a cheque for the 
proceeds of his savings account.
Mr H continued to complain to Barclays. He sent it online messages in March 2020. But 
Barclays said it considered the matter was closed. So, Mr H complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaints. She thought the issue Mr H had raised about 
Pingit being linked to his wifes account in error had been resolved in line with the terms 
and conditions. She said Mr H had raised a new issue in January 2020, but that issue had 
been resolved when hed re-registered for Pingit in January 2020. And she said hed been 
issued with a new chip. She couldnt see any declined transactions. So, she said Barclays 
hadnt done anything wrong.
She also considered what Mr H had said about his savings account. She said, whilst it 
wasnt clear what had happened, Barclays had offered to transfer the money to another 
account for him.
Having considered everything, she said Barclays had offered to pay Mr H £100 (in total) 
by way of compensation for what happened. She thought that was fair and reasonable. 
She didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the new chip had only been sent to him in September 2020, 
after hed complained to our service. Our investigator asked him to test the new chip to see 
if it worked. Mr H did this and confirmed the new chip was working and he was now able to 
use his device to make contactless payments. Our investigator considered whether this 
changed her view about the actions Barclays had taken. But she didnt change her view.
Mr H wasnt satisfied. He said hed never received Barclays final response letter dated 24 
January 2020. But, in any case, he pointed out that the letter said the issue hed raised 
about the chip not working was still under investigation. Hed contacted Barclays again in 
March about this, but it still hadnt dealt with the issue. He said hed been left for nine 
months with a device which didnt work in the way it should have worked.
Because Mr H didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Barclays has said about the initial complaint Mr H raised. 
Its not clear why the device was linked to his wifes account. And, I agree it 
did take Barclays some time to try to resolve this issue, but it did resolve the 
issue. It told him hed need to install a new chip in the device hed purchased 
and hed need to re-register for Pingit.
The new chip was sent on 29 December 2019. Mr H acknowledges that he 
received it. But, Mr H was aware there were problems with the chip because 
he couldnt use his device in shops to make contactless purchases.Hed contacted Barclays about this, and it had registered an incident on its 
systems. That incident was logged on 10 January 2020. The description of the 
issue was logged as follows:
Unable to make purchases using Pingit device.
It appears from the incident log that Barclays thought the problem had 
been resolved because there is a note on 21 February 2020 which says
Customer registered the app issue resolved.
It is the case that Mr H had registered the App. Its not clear when he did that. I 
can see he added funds to his Pingit jar on 8 January 2020. So, by that stage I 
think he was satisfied the App was now associated with his own current 
account, rather than his wifes current account.
As mentioned above a letter was sent to him on 23 January 2020 which 
thanked him for joining Pingit. Its not clear if that letter was created because 
hed deleted and reinstalled the App. I can see thats what Barclays had 
suggested he should do when it spoke to him on 23 January 2020. But the fact 
hed done that didnt mean the issue with the chip, which hed raised on 10 
January 2020 had been resolved. It had not.
Mr H made that clear when he spoke to Barclays on 24 January 2020 and 
again when he sent online messages to it in March 2020. But Barclays didnt 
investigate further at that time. Instead it insisted that the issue had been 
resolved.
I can see that when Mr H didnt get the response hed hoped for he referred his 
complaint to our service in May 2020. But it wasnt until September 2020 that 
Barclays sent him a replacement chip. That chip worked and Mr H was able to 
start using his device to make contactless payments after that date.
So, Ive thought about the actions Barclays took to try to resolve this complaint.
I can see that it did resolve the initial problem about Pingit being associated 
with the wrong current account. It took it some time to get to the bottom of that 
problem, but it did do that and told Mr H what he needed to do. It also credited 
his Pingit jar with £50 at that time by way of compensation for the 
inconvenience hed experienced. Having thought about that, I think Barclays 
actions were fair and reasonable and I wouldnt expect it to do anything 
further to put things right.
Ive then considered what happened with the savings account. Barclays has 
provided a copy of the letter it sent Mr H in July 2019. That letter made clear 
that the account would be closed, and the funds transferred to a central account 
if Mr H didnt give Barclays his instructions prior to 14 October. He didnt do that 
and so the account was closed. It appears he subsequently claimed these 
moneys and Barclays agreed to give him a cheque for the proceeds. That claim 
was processed in line with the rules which apply to dormant accounts and the 
moneys were paid out on 22 January 2020. But instead of issuing a cheque, 
Barclays credited the moneys to the Pingit jar. It acknowledged this was an 
error.Barclays offered to transfer the moneys to another account of Mr Hs choosing. It 
did this when it spoke to him on the telephone on 23 January and it repeated this 
offer in its letter dated 24 January 2020. It also offered to pay Mr H £50 by way of 
compensation for what happened. Mr H didnt provide details of an account that 
the moneys could be transferred to. He says he didnt get the letter dated 24 
January 2020.
Having considered the fact that Mr H was given the opportunity to transfer the 
funds to another account on 23 January, which was the day after the funds had 
been incorrectly paid into the Pingit jar, I think £50 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for what happened. That opportunity was given to him during a 
phone call. So, although he says he didnt get the letter dated 24 January 2020, I 
dont think that changes the position. He knew what he needed to do if he 
wanted those funds transferred. Mr H now says he is willing to accept the offer of 
£50 to resolve this part of his complaint.
This leaves the issue about the fact that the chip issued in January 2020 didnt 
work. Having looked at the incident log and the information in the final response 
letter, Im not persuaded that Barclays did everything it needed to do to resolve 
this part of Mr Hs complaint. Ive also looked at the messages Mr H sent to 
Barclays in March 2020. He made it clear in those messages that the chip wasnt 
working. Id have expected Barclays to have looked again at why that might be 
the case. If it had done that, I think it wouldve issued a new chip much sooner. It 
didnt do that until September 2020.
So, I intend to uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint. I can see that because the 
chip wasnt working properly, he wasnt able to use the device hed purchased. 
He wouldve still been able to access the funds in the Pingit jar through the App. 
So, I dont think he was deprived of access to the funds. But he couldnt use the 
device for the purpose he purchased it  which was to make contactless 
purchases.
What needs to be done to put things right
When considering what Barclays should do to put things right, Ive taken into 
account the fact that Mr H wouldve still been able to access the money in his 
Pingit jar by using the App. But it is the case hes had to take time to follow this 
matter up with Barclays and complain to our service. He was only given a chip 
which worked correctly in September 2020  which was nine months after hed 
first complained about the matter. Hes been inconvenienced as a result of what 
happened and hasnt been able to use his device to make contactless payments 
 which was the reason why hed purchased the device in the first place.
Barclays has already credited his Pingit jar with £50 and offered a further £50 to 
compensate him for what happened with his savings account.
I think Barclays should pay him an additional amount of £100 by way of 
compensation for the delay, distress and inconvenience hes experienced when 
it didnt replace the chip he complained about in January 2020.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold 
this complaint, in part, about Barclays Bank UK plc.In order to resolve the complaint, I think that in addition to the £50 its already 
credited to his Pingit jar, Barclays Bank UK plc should:
pay Mr H £50 by way of compensation for the inconvenience he experienced 
when it didnt send him a cheque, as it said it would do, for the proceeds of his 
dormant savings account. Its already offered to pay him this amount in its letter 
dated 24 January 2020. I think thats fair and reasonable; and
pay him an additional sum of £100 by way of compensation for the delay, 
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened when it 
didnt replace the chip, sent to him in December 2019.
I do not uphold any other part of Mr Hs complaint.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision. It said it had nothing further to add and 
would be willing to pay the additional compensation stated in the provisional decision.
Mr H also responded to my provisional decision. He said all Barclays ever needed to do was 
send a replacement chip for the one hed received in January 2020. He acknowledged hed 
now received the replacement chip and the problem had been rectified. But he reiterated 
that he was dissatisfied with the service hed received from Barclays.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr H has reiterated his dissatisfaction with the service he got from Barclays. He hasnt 
raised any new or additional information for my consideration.
So, having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my 
view that, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, this complaint should be upheld, 
in part. 
I also havent changed my view that, in addition to the £50 its already offered to pay Mr H for 
inconvenience he experienced when it didnt send him a cheque in respect of his dormant 
savings account, Barclays should pay Mr H an additional £100. This is to compensate him 
for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened when it 
didnt replace the chip sent to him in December 2019.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint, in part, about Barclays Bank UK plc. I 
now require it to take the following action:
pay Mr H £50 by way of compensation for the inconvenience he experienced 
when it didnt send him a cheque, as it said it would do, for the proceeds of 
his dormant savings account. Its already offered to pay him this amount in 
its letter dated 24 January 2020. I think thats fair and reasonable;   andpay Mr H an additional sum of £100 by way of compensation for the 
delay, distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of what 
happened when it didnt replace the chip, sent to him in December 2019.
I do not uphold any other part of Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman