DRN-3772590
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money he lost in a scam. 
What happened
Mr M says that he met a lady Ill refer to as L on a dating site. He and L then started to 
message each other through a messaging service and after around a month L suggested 
she could help Mr M invest through her uncles trading site. Mr M was asked to set up an 
account with a cryptocurrency exchange Ill refer to as B and then transfer funds from his 
account with Monzo to his newly opened account with B. L then helped Mr M move funds to 
a trading platform. 
I have set out below the payments Mr M made from his Monzo account:
Date Amount
05/04/22 £20
06/04/22 £750
08/04/22 £1,000
08/04/22 £2,000
09/04/22 £1,000
09/04/22 £1,000
Total £5,770
Mr M has provided a screen shot from the trading platform that showed a profit of over 
£100,000. He was then asked to pay tax of over £18,000 to receive his funds. On 22 April 
2022 Mr M contacted Monzo through its in-app chat to report the scam.
Monzo hasnt agreed to provide Mr M with a refund. It says that Mr M transferred funds from 
Monzo to a legitimate platform (B) and his point of loss was when he moved the funds from 
B to the scammer. Monzo suggested that Mr M contact B. In any event, Monzo got in touch 
with the bank that received Mr Ms funds but was advised that no funds remained. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
noted that the payments Mr M made from his Monzo account werent so unusual that Monzo 
should have had any concerns about them. This was because they were relatively low in 
value and were to an account in Mr Ms name. And Monzo had done what it could in 
contacting the receiving bank when the scam was reported but by this stage no funds 
remained in the receiving account. Finally, the investigator said that Mr M hadnt completed 
sufficient checks before making the payments. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators view and so his complaint has been passed to me 
to consider. He said he was asking this service for help to recover the funds he has lost 
rather than asking Monzo to pay him back. He feels that Monzo should trace his funds so 
that they can be recovered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is accepted that Mr M authorised the scam payments from his Monzo account. So, 
although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammer, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr M is presumed liable for 
his loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a 
valid payment instruction has been received Monzos obligation is to follow the instructions 
that he provides. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect its customer from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. An 
example of this would be if a payment instruction is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic 
for the usual use of the account. In such circumstances, Id expect Monzo to intervene and 
ask more questions about the intended transaction and to provide suitable warnings about 
common scams.
Im not persuaded that the fact the payments were going to Mr Ms own account and so 
appeared to be going somewhere safe and within his control means Monzo cant be held 
liable. Its a question of whether they were unusual and so should have caused concern. 
This is because by January 2019, firms like Monzo had, or ought to have had, a good 
enough understanding of how these scams work  including that a customer often moves 
money to an account in their own name before moving it on again to the scammer - to have 
been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud. 
In this case, Im not satisfied that the payments Mr M asked Monzo to process were so 
unusual or out of character that Monzo ought reasonably to have intervened. I say this 
because the amounts were relatively low in value and the balance of Mr Ms account wasnt 
totally depleted. And whilst the payments initially increased in size this pattern didnt 
continue (as the last two payments on 9 April 2022 were for £1,000). So, the payment 
requests didnt follow the usual investment scam pattern. In the circumstances, I think 
Monzo acted reasonably in not intervening.  
Theres a balance to be struck; banks have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction as this 
would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments.
In his response to the investigators view Mr M has suggested that Monzo knew he was 
making payments as part of a scam, but I dont agree. Mr M asked Monzo to transfer funds 
to his own account at a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange.
Recovery
Mr Ms funds were sent to an account in Mr Ms name with B, a genuine cryptocurrency 
platform and from there to the scammer. In the circumstances, there was nothing Monzo 
could do to recover the funds. Monzo has no way of knowing what happened to the funds 
after they reached Mr Ms account with B and theres nothing more I would expect it to do in 
these circumstances.
For completeness, the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case as Mr M made payments from his Monzo account to an account in his own 
name rather than to another person. The CRM Code only applies to payments made to 
another person. Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear that Mr M has lost out as a result of a cruel scam, I cant 
reasonably ask Monzo to refund him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman