DRN-3429215
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect them when a relative 
tricked them into sending him money for his own gain.   
What happened
I think its important to note that within this decision, I may refer to some information which is 
helpful for the purpose of setting out what has happened. And while I may refer to this 
information, I am not making any specific comments or findings in relation to it. This is 
because it relates to a separate complaint thats been brought and is being considered by 
our service. 
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs B were defrauded by a relative, who tricked them into 
sending money for his own gain. I think its helpful to set out that prior to the payments 
Mr and Mrs B made, previous payments had been made to the same recipient for the same 
purpose by close relatives of theirs. These payments are being dealt with under a separate 
complaint reference with us.  
A close relation of Mr and Mrs B (who Ill refer to as L) worked for the bank in one of its 
branches as a cashier, although L had misrepresented his position within the bank as hed 
told Mr and Mrs B hed been promoted on several occasions up to the role of audit director. 
Around 2014 to 2015, L, convinced relatives of Mr and Mrs B that in his role with the bank he 
had the benefit of a high interest savings account. The relatives proceeded to make 
payments to L. 
Mr and Mrs B have explained that a few years later, in 2018, L persuaded them to invest 
savings they had into his savings account with the bank which had the benefit of a high 
interest rate. Mr and Mrs B say at this time they had money they were looking to move to 
secure a better return.   
Mr and Mrs B say L showed them investment documentation from the bank, showing how 
safe and secure the scheme was, how the savings scheme worked and how much interest 
had been accrued. Theyve explained the documentation shown to them had the banks 
letterhead on but that they werent given any documentation to keep. Mr and Mrs B have 
said they believe L used bank materials to fraudulently produce documents to convince them 
of the high interest savings account. Mr and Mrs B agreed and proceeded to make an initial 
payment of £10,000 which they were told was to secure the higher interest rate. Following 
this, further payments were made to L (for ease Ive set out the payments in the table 
below). 
Date Transaction type Amount 
20/11/2018 Mobile bill payment  faster 
payment£10,000
12/12/2018 Internet banking bill payment- 
faster payment£25,000
13/12/2018 Internet banking bill payment- £25,000
faster payment
14/12/2018 Internet banking bill payment- 
faster payment£25,000
17/12/2018 Mobile bill payment  faster 
payment£5,000
Total loss £90,000
In March 2020, when the lockdown started as a result of the pandemic, Mr and Mrs B asked 
L for a return of some of the money. Theyve told us they were given numerous reasons by L 
as to why it was not possible to transfer any money to their account. 
Mr and Mrs B became aware L had deceived them around mid-2020. This was when they 
received a visit from the police in relation to L. Mr and Mrs B were informed L was under 
investigation by HSBC. They say this prompted them to ask about their money which was 
transferred to Ls account. They were informed no money remained. 
Mr and Mrs B reported the loss to HSBC on 2 September 2020 and to ask for its help.
HSBC concluded they didnt have any liability for Ls actions  it added that L didnt hold a 
position at the bank to make the offer he did and so L was acting outside of his role. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and brought their complaint to us. Mr and Mrs B feel HSBC 
should have been monitoring Ls accounts and ensuring that he was living within his means. 
Mr and Mrs B say that had HSBC asked them questions when the initial payment was 
deposited by their relatives (prior to the payments they made to L) then the overall loss from 
all concerned couldve been prevented. 
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs B had said in relation to L and his role with the 
bank and what they feel the bank ought to have done. But he was mindful HSBC had said L 
went beyond his role and so was acting outside of his employment with it. And so, he didnt 
think this in and of itself ought to mean HSBC was held liable for the actions of L. When 
considering whether there was anything else HSBC couldve done, he didnt think the bank 
should reasonably have been expected to prevent the loss. Even though there were 
payments he thought HSBC ought to have asked Mr and Mrs B about, he didnt think 
intervention by the bank wouldve made a difference. This is because he wasnt persuaded 
the answers Mr and Mrs B likely would have given wouldve raised concerns with HSBC that 
they might be at risk of financial harm. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigator. They reiterated their previous thoughts above 
and said HSBC have vicarious liability for L. Mr and Mrs B feel the investigators assessment 
is made on assumptions and have asked how he could possibly know that had HSBC asked 
them questions about the payments it wouldnt have made a difference. Mr and Mrs B 
clarified that they are not asking HSBC to refund all the money they lost but to provide some 
compensation. 
As Mr and Mrs B didnt accept our investigators view the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint.Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what has happened to Mr and Mrs B. Its completely 
understandable that theyre devasted as to the money theyve lost, as well as the trust thats 
been broken on finding out that theyve been deceived by L. With this in mind, I acknowledge 
Mr and Mrs Bs view that the bank didnt do enough to protect them and their money.  
Its important to clearly acknowledge that Mr and Mrs B have been the victims of a crime 
here. Mr and Mrs B have explained the significant impact this has had on them and I 
recognise this is a very sensitive matter. And I also recognise they have been left out of 
pocket by a significant sum as a result of this deception. However, the main cause of their 
loss was as a result of the actions of L who deceived them. 
For me to say HSBC is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank could 
and should have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it is responsible for Ls actions 
vicariously.  I accept that the payments they made out of their HSBC joint account were 
authorised transactions, even though Mr and Mrs B did so as a result of a deception. They 
authorised the payments and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms 
and conditions of their account, they are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and 
Mrs B when they made the payments or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Did HSBC act fairly and reasonably when it processed the payment instructions?
As set out within our investigators view, there were payments which I wouldve expected 
HSBC to have asked Mr and Mrs B about given the payment amounts and the increased 
frequency of the payments in December 2018. But even had HSBC intervened and asked 
Mr and Mrs B questions about the payments they were attempting to make, I dont think this 
would have made a difference in the particular circumstances of this case. This case involves an unusual set of circumstances and while banks should be on the 
lookout for common fraud and scams, this is not a common scam that HSBC shouldve been 
on the lookout for. 
Had HSBC got in touch to ask about the payments Mr and Mrs B were asking to make, I 
think it is more likely than not that they would have told the bank they were sending money 
to their close relative. While Mr and Mrs B say they hadnt been given a cover story by L, Im 
not wholly persuaded that they wouldve shared more detailed information, for example that 
it was going to a savings account held by L for the benefit of a higher interest rate or that 
they would have shared that L worked for the bank. I say this because, I dont think the 
information/ answers Mr and Mrs B were more likely than not to have given within any 
intervention call wouldve necessarily reached this level of detail. 
Im mindful that had HSBC asked who the payments were going to, Mr and Mrs B would 
have likely confirmed L was a close relation and that theyd previously made payments to Ls 
account  for things such as birthdays and Christmas. This I think wouldve reasonably 
satisfied HSBC that Mr and Mrs B knew the account they were asking to pay. It follows that 
HSBC wouldve been satisfied the payments were going to a family member who Mr and 
Mrs B had paid in the past. And even when I consider the reason Mr and Mrs B wouldve 
likely given for the movement of money, had the conversation reached this level of 
questioning, I dont think HSBC wouldve been concerned they were at risk of financial harm 
from fraud, in the particular circumstances.  
Im also mindful that in the circumstances of this case, there was significant trust between 
Mr and Mrs B and L. They believed the information L had shown them about the savings 
account and they didnt have any doubts throughout. I think this showed the level of trust 
Mr and Mrs B had in L and, I think this would have come across in any contact they had with 
HSBC - that also wouldve made it more difficult for HSBC to expose the deception. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs B feel assumptions are being made by our service in respect of 
whether questioning by HSBC wouldve made a difference. But in our roles, when 
considering complaints brought to us, where the evidence is unclear or there are conflicts, I 
have to make my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I have 
looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened.  
Mr and Mrs B have told us that when the police made them aware that no money remained 
in Ls account that at first, they didnt believe this. It took a second visit from the police for 
them to accept L had scammed them. This would have been extremely difficult news to 
receive, but this further persuades me as to how difficult it wouldve been for HSBC to 
uncover the deception or be put on notice that Mr and Mrs B might have been at risk of 
financial harm. On balance, Im not persuaded HSBC did anything wrong in allowing Mr and 
Mrs B to make the payments they did. 
Mr and Mrs B also raised further points which I consider to be two separate points. The first 
is their belief HSBC is vicariously liable for Ls actions. And the second, is that they feel 
HSBC ought to have been monitoring Ls accounts and ensuring that he was living within his 
means. 
HSBC have said that based on what its been told by Mr and Mrs B, it appears L obtained 
the funds in question from them through deception. This it says is not something that it was 
aware of and it does not think these actions were performed on its behalf as part of Ls 
employment. HSBC maintains that it is not vicariously liable for Ls actions, as they werent 
carried out in the course of his employment and specifically went against his contracted job 
role.  Broadly, theres a two-stage test to decide whether vicarious liability can apply. Stage one is 
to ask whether theres a sufficient relationship between the wrongdoer and the principal. 
Having done so, Im satisfied this part of the test is met as L was an employee of the bank. 
Stage two is to ask whether the wrongdoing itself was sufficiently connected to the 
wrongdoers duties on behalf of the principal for it to be just for the principal to be held liable.
I accept L was, at least in part, using his role to his advantage in deceiving Mr and Mrs B, 
but Im not satisfied HSBC is vicariously liable because the actions L took were not 
sufficiently connected to the role he was employed to undertake  that of a cashier. It is my 
understanding that Ls role as a cashier was not an advisory role. Im further persuaded this 
was the case given that L lied - misrepresented his position at the bank to Mr and Mrs B. 
From what Ive seen and been told, L also doesnt appear to have carried out any of these 
actions while in the bank nor during his working hours. I also appreciate L told Mr and Mrs B 
that due to his employment his savings account had a better interest rate, but had this been 
the case (and Ive seen no evidence this was the case) this wouldve been an employee 
benefit rather than part of his role. And Ls actions were not intended to benefit the bank in 
anyway  it appears he was acting entirely in his own interests. 
I have also considered whether L was acting with apparent authority  that the bank did 
something that made Mr and Mrs B think L was acting in the course of his employment. 
However, in this case, Ive not seen anything that suggests HSBC appear to have held L out 
as having any authority to do what he did. 
So, for these reasons HSBC are not vicariously liable for Ls actions. 
I also understand Mr and Mrs B feel Ls account use, may in hindsight appear suspicious/ 
worrying  in that they believe he was living beyond his means and, this in turn ought to 
have been spotted by the bank. However, this isnt something our service can consider. Our 
service only has powers to consider complaints about Receiving Firms (the bank that 
received the funds) since 31 January 2019  and we cant consider any acts or omissions 
carried out by a Receiving Firm that occurred before this date. Here, the payments were 
made in 2018 so this means I am unable to comment or make a finding as to whether HSBC 
may have failed in its obligations in any way in relation to Ls account. 
Reporting and recovery of funds 
Ive gone on to think about whether HSBC did what it shouldve done in attempting to 
recover Mr and Mrs Bs money, once theyd let it know about the scam. But in this case, Im 
not persuaded there was anything more HSBC couldve done to recover their money. I say 
this because, when Mr and Mrs B were visited by the police and became aware, theyd fallen 
victim to a scam, the police had already confirmed no funds remained in Ls account.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont require HSBC to reimburse Mr and Mrs B. 
In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to them and 
I am sorry they have lost out. 
Mr and Mrs B were the victims of a crime and a cruel scam carefully designed to defraud 
them of their money  made even more sensitive and difficult given their relationship with L. 
As I said from the outset, I recognise theyve lost a very significant sum and theyve detailed 
the impact all of this has had for them. But it is simply the case that in all of the 
circumstances, I cant fairly say HSBC is liable for the losses they incurred.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about HSBC Bank UK 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman