DRN-2394249
complaint
Mrs G and Mr G say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them two payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies. 
I know that Mrs G and Mr G have also complained about PPI sold alongside a mortgage. 
Just to be clear, this decision is only about the PPI sold to them alongside two unsecured 
loans. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs G and Mr G bought the first policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out their loan. 
They applied for the loan and PPI policy on the telephone. The second policy in respect of a 
new loan was sold in 2001 by telephone.  
The one-off upfront premium in respect of the first policy of £910.63 was paid in advance by 
being added to the loan (a single premium) where it attracted interest over the term of the 
loan. The loan was repayable over a 60-month term and the policy term matched that of the 
loan. The monthly loan repayment was £112.62 with the PPI costing an additional £20.51 
making the total monthly repayment £133.13 
In respect of the second policy, the single premium was £1,554.57 and this cost was also 
added to the loan upfront. The term of this loan was also 60 months. The loan repayment 
was £164.35 without PPI. But Mrs and Mr G paid another £31.93 towards the cost of the 
policy each month. The total monthly repayment was £196.28
Although both Mrs G and Mr G were jointly liable for the loan repayments, the PPI policy 
covered Mr G only for accident, sickness, unemployment and life, subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs G and Mr Gs monthly loan repayment for up to the 
remaining term of the loan in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months in the 
event of unemployment. 
At the time of both sales, Mr G was employed as an electrician. He told us he was entitled to 
some sick pay, but the amount is not clear. I understand Mrs G and Mr G had limited other 
means with which to meet their loan repayments if Mr G was out of work. I also understand 
that Mr G was in good health in both 1998 and in 2001.   
Mrs G and Mr G say that the single premium policy wasnt suitable for them because they 
didnt think theyd get a pro rata refund if they cancelled the cover early. They say that it 
should have been obvious to Nationwide that theyd want to pay their loan off early. 
Nationwide sent us statements to show that the first loan account was closed in 2001 and 
the second closed in 2005. 
Mrs G and Mr Gs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs G and Mr Gs representative says:
Nationwide failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the relevant times. In 
those circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mrs G and Mr G 
wouldnt have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs G and 
Mr Gs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Claims for back pain and stress were excluded or limited and these matters are some 
of the most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the 
value of cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely Mrs and Mr G could 
make a successful claim meant the cover was of inherently poor value as shown by 
the low claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Nationwide 
should have told Mrs G and Mr G about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms were unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs G and Mr 
G and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs G and Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs G and Mr Gs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken it into account in deciding Mrs G and Mr Gs 
complaint
The first sale took place in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code doesnt apply to the 
cover sold in 1998 and the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and 
insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to either sale, nor is the FCAs 
Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreements concluded in 2001 and 2005 respectively. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent applicable. 
The second sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General 
Insurance Standards Council (GISC). It published the GISC code, which set out minimum 
standards of good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including PPI. 
In respect of both sales, there were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, 
which Im satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. For the first sale, I have taken particular account of The 
Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than Registered 
Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and 
these other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs G and Mr Gs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
For the first sale and under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints 
like this about acts or omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into 
account what determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the 
Building Societies Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an 
equivalent complaint. I note that under the Building Societies Ombudsmans terms of 
reference the Ombudsman was required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in 
his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:- If Nationwide gave advice, whether it advised Mrs G and Mr G with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether each policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
- Whether Nationwide gave Mrs G and Mr G sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out 
each policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and 
not misleading way  the main provisions, significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs G 
and Mr G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent they suffered 
loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss 
or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs G and Mr G 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs G and Mr G know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI was optional when it sold both policies.  
Those representing Mrs G and Mr G didnt specifically argue that the optional nature of the 
PPI wasnt made clear. I dont have a call recording for either sale, which isnt surprising 
given how long ago the cover was sold. I wouldnt expect either party to keep such records 
for that length of time. I have seen both loan application forms, and I can see from those 
documents that the PPI is set out clearly as an optional product. The cost is set out 
separately to the cost of the loan. 
In considering that documentation, I am satisfied that Mrs G and Mr G would have known 
they had a choice about whether to take the insurance. And if that was different to what they 
were told on the telephone, I think theyd have queried it at the relevant time. The evidence 
doesnt suggest they did. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mrs G and Mr G knew the policies 
were optional and they agreed to take them out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide advice?
I havent treated either sale as an advised sale. Thats because the evidence before me 
doesnt suggest cover was recommended to Mrs G and Mr G after Nationwide took a 
detailed account of their personal circumstances. 
This means Nationwide didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs G and Mr G. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs G 
and Mr G to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the cover and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs G and Mr G were given a broad description of 
what the policies were intended to cover (that is that the cover would protect their payments 
if Mr G was unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs G and Mr G would have taken out the cover 
without any sense of what the policies were. And, from the credit agreements, I think Mrs G 
and Mr G knew the cost of the single premiums, the interest, the total cost and the monthly 
cost of each policy. In my view, this information was sufficiently clear on each loan 
agreement signed by Mrs G and Mr G.   
But the evidence from the time of each sale doesnt tell us whether Nationwide gave 
sufficient information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations 
before Mrs G and Mr G agreed to take out each policy. 
So I dont think Nationwide gave Mrs G and Mr G sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out each 
policy the, including drawing their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mrs G and Mr Gs representative raised a 
number of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs G and 
Mr Gs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs G and Mr Gs representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather 
than the insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mrs G and Mr G about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained their significance. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs G and Mr Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a 
court would say, I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having 
to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mrs G and Mr G suggested. And taking into account the law, industry 
codes and standards of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mrs G and Mr G? To what extent 
did Mrs G and Mr G suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold this cover to Mrs G 
and Mr G. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
they suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether Mrs G and 
Mr G would have still taken out both policies had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mrs G and Mr G say they would not have taken the policies out and believe I should 
presume this to be the case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.As these sales were non-advised, Mrs G and Mr G had to weigh up in their own minds the 
cost of the policies against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt 
insure against the risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs G and Mr G chose to take this cover out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude they had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mrs G and 
Mr G thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this differed 
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mrs G and Mr G suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
As Ive already said, the information Mrs G and Mr G were given about the cost was clear. 
But the information about other aspects of the policies, such as the limitations and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mrs G and Mr G would get back in 
return in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs G and Mr Gs 
expectations about what each policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient 
to meet their loan payments) were significantly different to what the relevant policy actually 
did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs G and Mr G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought were the following:
The first policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental condition or 
disease that Mr G knew about or should reasonably have known about at the start 
date and which occurred again within 12 months of the start date; or any condition or 
disease for which Mr G had received treatment or advice during the 12 months 
before the start date; 
The second policy excluded claims for any medical condition or disease Mr G knew 
of, or should reasonably have known of on the start date; or any medical condition or 
disease for which he had received treatment, advice or had been referred for 
investigation during the 12 months before the start date and which recurred within 12 
months of the start date; 
Both policies limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee.
For both policies, the requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim Mr 
G be completely unable to do his own job, a similar job or any other job that his 
knowledge or training allowed him to do.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Mrs G and Mr G pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude 
that the policies werent as good as they thought and they might have decided not to 
proceed. The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, 
might have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs G and 
Mr G from taking out the cover. 
But, the evidence about Mrs G and Mr Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
cover wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. Mr G was eligible for the benefits and 
despite the limitations and exclusions, the cover couldve proved valuable to them should the 
insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest they 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr G didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and he was in permanent employment. So, I still think they had 
some good reasons to take the policies out.The policies didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs G 
and Mr G would have expected to make a disability claim without first providing some 
evidence to support that claim.
If Mrs G and Mr G had known they could only claim for disability if Mr G was not only unable 
to do his job but also unable to do any job his knowledge or training allowed him to do, it 
might have played into their thinking about what they would do. And I accept it may have 
given them pause for thought  although given the circumstances and the limited other 
means Mrs G and Mr G had to make their repayments if Mr G wasnt working, on balance, I 
still think they would have been interested in taking out the cover.
Both policies did provide a pro-rata refund if they were cancelled early, so the cover was 
flexible if Mrs G and Mr G decided to repay the loan early and cancel it.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs G and Mr G would still have taken out the cover. It was sufficiently close to 
what its likely they thought they were getting and provided benefits that would help them 
manage the consequences were Mr G made redundant, or unable to work through accident 
or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs G and Mr G 
would have taken out the policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs G and Mr Gs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs G and Mr G would not have bought the PPI unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs G and Mr 
Gs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mrs G 
and Mr G found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs G and Mr G believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed 
to give proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs G and Mr G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. That is because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the cover, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken 
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policies 
they were buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should pay Mrs G and Mr G compensation, as that would put them in a better 
position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs G and Mr Gs representative says a court might 
take if it were to find Nationwide had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs G and Mr G in a better position than if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.  
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman