DRN-4370919
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complained about the advice and service they received in relation to the 
investments in their stocks and shares ISAs from St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc 
(SJP). They said SJP didnt properly advise them when the value of their ISAs dropped in 
early 2020, and SJPs charges werent transparent.
The advice Mr and Mrs T received was provided by DFS Financial Consultancy Ltd (DFS). 
As shown on the Financial Services Register, DFS is an appointed representative of SJP, 
and has been since 2013. I note Mr and Mrs T have said the adviser himself, who worked for 
DFS, should respond to their complaint rather than SJP. But its standard practice for a 
principal firm  which in this case is SJP  to handle complaints on behalf of its appointed 
representative  in this case DFS. Mr and Mrs T can be assured that this is not unusual. Im 
aware SJP had input from the individual adviser at DFS when responding to the complaint. 
And because SJP is the regulated firm that is responsible for the advice given to Mr and 
Mrs T Ive referred to SJP as the responsible party in this decision.
Mr and Mrs T have individual ISAs. Their complaint has been brought together, and Ive 
considered the complaint as one.
What happened
In July 2014 SJP advised Mr and Mrs T to invest into stocks and shares ISAs. They 
transferred and invested about £48,000 and £74,000 respectively.
SJP recorded its assessment of the risk appetite of both Mr and Mrs T as between medium 
and lower-medium risk. And it noted that they wanted to invest for the medium-to-long term 
which was described as at least 5 years and 5-15 years. It was noted that they had 
enough income for their needs from other sources and the objective of their investment was 
to achieve growth at a higher rate than inflation. SJP advised them to invest 50% in a 
balanced fund portfolio and 50% in a conservative portfolio.
A copy of the Welcome to St Jamess Place brochure that Ive seen from 2015 says SJP 
provides ongoing information and support to investment advice customers by making 
available information from the Investment Committee which oversees the performance of its 
fund managers. And the level of ongoing service from SJP would be discussed on an 
individual basis. It says:
Primarily this will involve holding regular review meetings, either face-to-face or via 
the telephone, to discuss your investments and personal circumstances, thus 
ensuring that whatever decisions you have made remain appropriate and continue to 
meet your objectives.  Whatever the frequency of the regular contact with your 
Partner, you should feel free to contact them at any time to discuss any aspect of 
your investment.
SJPs recommendation letter dated 25 July 2014 said it would send a statement each year 
so a review could be arranged and it strongly recommended regular reviews. 
Mr and Mrs T have said they were pleased with the performance of the investments until 
2019. But in early March 2020 Mr and Mrs T contacted SJP to discuss reducing their risk 
exposure. At that time the ISAs were worth more than in 2014 but had reduced from recent 
levels due to the effects of covid on the market.
Mr T said SJP came to see them but tried to persuade them to hold tight. But Mr and Mrs T 
werent convinced that SJP would stabilise [their] investment so they contacted SJP again 
and they said they insisted on switching their investments.
In a recommendation letter dated 1 April 2020 SJP wrote:
My recommendation was to leave your funds where they were and wait until the 
markets settle down but you were adamant that you no longer had any appetite for 
risk.
We discussed that by making this selection, there was much less chance of you 
regaining your losses once the markets starts to rise eventually but you had made 
your mind up.
The investments in both ISAs were switched to a Money Market fund with a risk profile of 
Low.
The recommendation letter said the new investment was not consistent with your previous 
investment objectives for this plan as it is below your attitude to risk. But SJP had now 
recommended switching to the money market fund because you are currently very worried 
about your investment and you have decided that keeping the investment in cash funds will 
prevent your investment from falling as it did since the outbreak of Covid19.
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint
In February 2021 Mr and Mrs T complained about the advice and service SJP gave them. 
They said theyd just received a statement for the period up to 31 December 2020 and they 
were concerned about a reduction in the value of their investments. In summary they said 
the following:
They were concerned about significant falls in the value of their investments between 
14 January and 18 March 2020. They later described this as a loss of about £44,000 
in a matter of five weeks. And they said, This has been a massive loss to us when 
we had been so pleased how our investment had progressed prior to 2019.
In the context of the covid pandemic SJP shouldve anticipated falls in the value of 
their investments and made adjustments. And Mr and Mrs T had received no advice 
between 14 January and 18 March 2020 when their investments had lost significant 
value. And SJP shouldve encouraged them to switch back to allow their investments 
to recover.
In early March 2020 Mr and Mrs T expressed concern to SJP but SJP told [them] to 
hold on as plans would recover.
Mr and Mrs T eventually insisted that action be taken but by then further value had 
been lost from their investments. About this they later said:
We consider that if [SJP] had not tried to talk us out of moving the funds 
initially when [Mrs T] was holding back on switching due to his persistence  we would not have lost so much  [SJP] could have saved us less of a loss if 
we had acted immediately.
They wanted SJP to compensate them for the value theyd lost on their investments.
Mr and Mrs T later added that:
SJPs fees werent made clear to them  and they wanted to know how much their 
individual adviser had received.
SJP didnt explain in March 2020 that after the covid crisis funds could bounce back 
to 2019 levels in 2020. Mr and Mrs T had thought their investments would take years 
to recover. And if SJP hadve given a better explanation they might not have 
switched in 2020.
Mr and Mrs T also mentioned in later correspondence that they had never received the SJP 
welcome brochure or the advice letters from SJP dated 25 July 2014 and 1 April 2020.
In response to the complaint SJP said it hadnt done anything wrong. In summary SJP said 
the following:
Fees were set out in the illustrations provided at the time of the advice. SJP enclosed 
an illustration from 2014 showing the fees it would charge Mr and Mrs T.
Covid had caused volatility in the stock market. But unless Mr and Mrs Ts goals had 
changed, the best response to volatility was to do nothing and focus on long-term 
objectives. Although volatility in early 2020 was extreme SJP didnt actively 
recommend fund switches. SJPs strategy had always been that time in the market 
was better than trying to time the market by switching investments to try and take 
advantage of peaks and troughs in the market.
SJPs funds were managed by fund managers who actively monitored the market 
and made active investment decisions within the mandate of each fund. But SJP 
advisers didnt actively switch funds for clients on the basis of short-term fluctuations.
In its 1 April 2020 letter SJP had said it recommended not switching investments but 
Mr and Mrs T had insisted on switching. SJP had said in the letter that by switching 
Mr and Mrs T wouldnt benefit from future rises in the market.
Between 18 March and 31 December 2020 Mr and Mrs Ts original fund portfolio  
the investments they switched out of  had grown 23% so in hindsight SJP had been 
right to recommend not switching.
Given Mr and Mrs T had decided not to take SJPs initial advice not to switch, it was 
difficult for SJP to know when they might feel confident enough to want to switch 
back. SJP said its adviser would discuss it with them if they got in touch about that.
Mr and Mrs T wrote to SJP again on several occasions. And they referred their complaint to 
this service.
Our Investigators view
One of our Investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. He said he was sorry to see 
Mr and Mrs Ts investments had decreased in value from their pre-covid levels. But he didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld because SJP told Mr and Mrs T in 2020 that their ISAs would be unlikely to recover if they switched to a low risk option, but Mr and Mrs T wanted to 
switch anyway because their risk appetite had changed. The Investigator also said it wasnt 
the role of the adviser to provide commentary on price fluctuations; the advisers role was to 
periodically review if the investments were suitable. The Investigator also said he couldnt 
see that SJP had charged Mr and Mrs T any fees that were outside the terms and conditions 
of their contract, or otherwise unfair.
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept the Investigators view. They said their complaint was about the 
individual adviser and the quality of his advice in 2020 when he simply told them not to 
panic. They said a new adviser had now explained the equity market to them. And they now 
thought that if theyd received a better explanation in 2020 then they wouldnt have panicked 
and wouldnt have switched their investments. They said they still hadnt been given a 
satisfactory breakdown of fees theyd paid to the adviser.
Mr and Mrs T also said the adviser hadnt told them he was affiliated with SJP. And they said 
they were unhappy with advice hed given in 2014, including in relation to their pensions. 
And they questioned information received in documents provided by their pension provider.
Because no agreement could be reached, this complaint was passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The purpose of this decision is to set out my findings on whats fair and reasonable, and 
explain my reasons for reaching those findings, not to offer a point-by-point response to 
every submission made by the parties to the complaint. And so, while Ive considered all the 
submissions by both parties, Ive focussed here on the points I believe to be key to my 
decision on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
taken into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Ive limited my decision here to the complaint that Mr and Mrs T made to SJP, which was 
considered by SJP and then by our Investigator. The status of DFS as an appointed 
representative of SJP isnt material to this complaint. And the 2014 advice is outside the 
scope of this decision because any dissatisfaction about that didnt form part of the 
complaint Mr and Mrs T brought to SJP.
I understand Mr and Mrs T said in response to our Investigators view that they want to 
complain about the competence of the individual adviser. And theyve said they want the 
adviser to be publicly identified to protect other consumers. But the role of this service is to 
make a decision on the complaint about the actions of the respondent (which in this case is 
SJP, as the regulated firm responsible for the advice) insofar as those actions are alleged to 
have caused Mr and Mrs T a loss. Its not the role of this service to assess the competence 
of an individual to give advice or to publish any such assessment.
SJPs fees and chargesIn response to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint SJP gave Mr and Mrs T written information about 
the fees it had charged. Mr and Mrs T gave us an annotated copy of that information on 
which they commented that the breakdown didnt show how much of that fee was paid to the 
individual adviser.
From the information Ive seen I think SJP was transparent enough about its fees after Mr 
and Mrs T asked for information about them.
I understand Mr and Mrs T would like a further breakdown of the fees showing how much 
their individual adviser was paid. I dont think that information is something SJP was 
obligated to provide. The fees Mr and Mrs T paid were for a service to be provided by DFS, 
a firm which acted as an appointed representative of SJP. How DFS chose to remunerate an 
adviser who provided services on its behalf in these circumstances is not within the 
jurisdiction of this service to consider. And I dont believe its material to Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint about the advice and service they received from SJP (as provided by its appointed 
representative DFS).
Lack of ongoing advice and proactive action
It's not in dispute that after being approached by Mr and Mrs T in March 2020 SJP advised 
Mr and Mrs T not to switch investments. Mr and Mrs T initially complained that SJP 
shouldve anticipated changes in the market and shouldve acted to stop their investments 
from losing value. 
Its not fair and reasonable to expect SJP to have known in advance exactly how and when 
the market would change in response to the covid pandemic, either at the time that values 
fell or later when prices recovered. I cant say SJP shouldve proactively sought to change 
Mr and Mrs Ts investments in response to the covid pandemic. SJP viewed covid as a 
short-term fluctuation (albeit an extreme one) and so it didnt recommend switching 
investments in response to it. As SJP said in its response to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, 
attempting to take advantage of or minimise the effects of market fluctuations by switching 
investments wasnt consistent with the medium-risk strategy that SJP had recommended 
and Mr and Mrs T had accepted in 2014. SJPs position on this was a reasonable one to 
take, keeping in mind Mr and Mrs Ts original risk appetite and investment objectives. So I 
think SJP acted in with the best interests of Mr and Mrs T in mind. And I cant say SJP did 
anything wrong by not seeking to switch Mr and Mrs Ts investments when covid emerged.
Attempting to take advantage of or minimise the effects of market fluctuations was also 
outside the scope of the service I think SJP had agreed to provide to Mr and Mrs T. In 
response to their complaint SJP told Mr and Mrs T that ongoing advice entailed periodically 
reviewing their investments to ensure the investments were still suitable for their 
circumstances and objectives. And that didnt involve switching investments in response to 
short-term fluctuations. SJPs recommendation letter of 25 July 2014 said SJP would send 
Mr and Mrs T a statement each year and an annual review could be arranged. Again, in light 
of Mr and Mrs Ts risk appetite which was rated in 2014 as medium to medium-low, I think 
SJPs position on this was fair and reasonable.
I note that SJP wasnt providing a discretionary portfolio management service which 
wouldve given SJP the right  and the obligation  to make changes to Mr and Mrs Ts 
investment portfolio at its own discretion. SJPs welcome brochure and the 2014 advice 
letter indicate that the ongoing service it offered was a periodic review which the adviser 
suggested should happen annually. And it made market-related information available to its 
customers and provided oversight of its fund managers. This doesnt suggest to me that SJP 
had offered to provide continuous monitoring of Mr and Mrs Ts individual portfolios or to 
proactively make or advise changes to their investments in response to market fluctuations throughout the year. So I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that in response to the 
covid pandemic SJP shouldve advised Mr and Mrs T sooner to change their investments. 
For the same reasons I cant say SJP shouldve proactively advised Mr and Mrs T at any 
particular point later in 2020 to switch their investments back in order to take advantage of a 
recovering market. SJP couldnt know when and how the market would recover, whether 
there would be further falls (if, for example, the covid situation worsened), or when Mr and 
Mrs Ts attitude to risk would change enough that a switch would be suitable for them. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that after the switch Mr and Mrs T did change their attitude 
to risk again during 2020. If they did, it was open to them to contact SJP to discuss options. 
Again, continuous proactive monitoring of and adjustments to their investments in response 
to market conditions were outside the scope of the service SJP had agreed to provide. 
Communication of the advice
In response to our Investigators view Mr and Mrs T said SJP should have stopped them 
from switching by giving them a better explanation of the advice not to switch and so 
persuading them to follow the initial recommendation to do nothing.
Correspondence from Mr and Mrs T in 2021 said SJP told them (in March 2020) to sit tight 
and hold on as plans would recover. Mr and Mrs T mentioned that Mrs T had been reluctant 
to switch because SJP recommended against it. They initially complained that their losses 
were increased by SJPs persistence in trying to talk [them] out of moving the funds. They 
said Mrs T was holding back because of SJPs persistence, whereas they couldve reduced 
their losses if theyd been able to switch more quickly, meaning when they first contacted 
SJP in March 2020 rather than when they contacted SJP a second time that month and 
insisted.
SJPs letter of 1 April 2020 told Mr and Mrs T clearly that SJP had taken the view that they 
shouldnt switch their investments, but that Mr and Mrs T had insisted on switching. This is 
consistent with Mr and Mrs Ts version of events. The letter also set out the risks involved in 
switching and the reasons the adviser didnt initially recommend it. I think the letter shows 
what was in the advisers mind when he discussed Mr and Mrs Ts investments with them in 
March 2020.
I know Mr and Mrs T have said they didnt receive the 1 April 2020 letter and SJP didnt give 
them a good explanation. But I think that, on the balance of probabilities, its more likely than 
not that SJP gave them reasons that were along the lines of those set out in the letter. Mr 
and Mrs T have shown they were aware at the time that SJP thought they should wait for the 
market to recover. And from Mr and Mrs Ts descriptions in 2021 of SJPs efforts to 
persuade them  for example when they described SJPs persistence in trying to convince 
them  I dont think its fair for me to say SJP didnt make a fair and reasonable effort to 
communicate to Mr and Mrs T the benefit of following its recommendation. Its not in dispute 
that discussions were had on at least two occasions in March 2020. And Mr and Mrs T didnt 
follow up after the switch to ask what the money market funds were or why theyd been 
switched into them. So I think its safe to say on balance that SJP explained its reason for 
recommending not switching, whether or not Mr and Mrs T received SJPs 1 April 2020 
recommendation letter which set out a summary of discussions SJP said had taken place.
SJP told Mr and Mrs T that in hindsight it was evident their investments wouldve recovered 
by the end of 2020 if they hadnt switched. And after speaking to a new adviser Mr and 
Mrs T said if theyd had a better explanation about how the market worked and what would 
happen then they wouldnt have switched and so wouldnt have incurred losses. But as Ive 
said its not fair and reasonable to expect SJP to have known exactly when and by how 
much the market would recover. So SJP couldnt have told Mr and Mr T when and how that would happen. I think it was reasonable for SJP to say in March 2020  without the benefit of 
hindsight  that recovery was likely to happen sometime within Mr and Mrs Ts investment 
horizon and so SJP didnt recommend switching. And, as Ive said, I think that on balance 
thats likely to be what SJP said.
Although Mr and Mrs T have said they didnt understand how the market worked and so 
didnt know what to expect, they havent said they didnt understand what SJP 
recommended. SJP said the risk of the switch was much less chance of you regaining your 
losses once the markets rise  and Im satisfied that whether in the letter or in discussions 
SJP wouldve communicated this particular point. Mr and Mrs Ts correspondence shows 
they knew SJP had said its best to wait for the market to recover. So I dont think the 
communication of the advice failed to be clear and fair. And I dont think it was misleading.
Understandably Mr and Mrs T are upset that the value of their investments dropped and 
didnt recover as they would have liked after they switched investments. And Im sorry thats 
happened to them. But Mr and Mrs Ts 2021 correspondence shows they felt strongly that a 
switch was necessary to prevent further loss of value. And I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to say SJP shouldve done more to talk them out of their 
position.
When Mr and Mrs T contacted SJP at the outbreak of the pandemic SJP had to take on 
board their worries and what that meant for SJPs understanding of their overall 
circumstances, attitude to risk and investment objectives. And SJP had to give them suitable 
advice in light of that and bearing in mind their ability to understand the risks involved.
Im satisfied that  in both saying initially that they should hold tight and then recommending 
a money market fund when Mr and Mrs T maintained that they wanted to reduce risk 
exposure  SJP acted fairly and reasonably bearing in mind these obligations. SJP had to 
have regard for Mr and Mrs Ts interests, including their interests to act in a way they were 
comfortable with, even if that wasnt SJPs first choice of action. And SJP had to ensure it 
communicated clearly enough that Mr and Mrs T could make informed choices about 
whether to accept SJPs advice. Overall Im satisfied SJP did these things.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Lucinda Puls
Ombudsman