DRN-2024080
 
The complaint
Mr J complains about various issues in connection with his voluntary termination of a car hire 
purchase agreement he had with Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF).
What happened
Mr J had a car on a hire purchase agreement financed by SMF. In February 2019 he 
decided to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement, and he told SMF in writing. By this time 
he had already paid half of what he was obliged to pay under the agreement. But in his 
email, he told SMF that he was not willing to pay any further costs. SMF sent him its own 
template VT letter (which it says it routinely sends in response to all its customers VT 
requests) and asked him to sign and return it. Mr J initially challenged the need for this, 
saying that it looked as if the letter was a new agreement, but SMF told him that it was only 
meant to advise him of how VT works. After two weeks Mr J signed and returned the letter. 
But there was then a further delay as he received conflicting information from SMF about 
where to return the car. Eventually the car was returned in March, but Mr J complains about 
those matters, and also complains that the customer service he received was poor, as he 
says his emails were ignored and the staff seemed not to know what to tell him.
But the main issue Mr J is concerned about is that he was charged over £1,270 for work 
done to fix damage to the car. SMF says this damage was identified by the auction house, 
which was independent, and it supplied a copy of the report. Mr J challenges this report on 
the grounds that the car was in good condition for its age (2009) and mileage (100,000), and 
that SMF seem to expect the car to be in pristine condition, as if it was still new. He says he 
was being required to pay for fair wear and tear and for damage caused by the cars 
previous owners. He refused to pay the charge, and in April SMF recorded a default on 
Mr Js credit file. He says this was done without notice to him. He settled this debt in May. 
He also complains that he was not told how much the car was sold for at auction.
Our investigator upheld this complaint, on the ground that the photographs in the copy of the 
inspection report provided by SMF were not clear enough to be able to decide whether the 
damage had been fairly assessed or not. The investigator did not uphold the other aspects 
of this complaint, saying that the sale of the car was not within the remit of our Service to 
consider, and that SMFs apology for the customer service issues was enough.
SMF tried to obtain a clearer copy of the report, but the auction house no longer had the 
original photos, and so better pictures were not available. So instead, SMF argued that the 
conclusions in the report could still be relied on, because there was no reason to suspect 
that the damage had been made up or exaggerated. SMF also noted that some of the 
damage included burns to the upholstery, which suggested that Mr J was a smoker who had 
not taken proper care of the car. SMF asked for an ombudsmans decision, and in due 
course this case was passed to me. I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mr J that the law does not require his signature for VT to be effective. It is 
enough for a consumer to ask for VT in writing. SMF says its policy is to ask for a signature, 
to ensure that the person asking for VT is its genuine customer and not some fraudster. That 
is asking for more than is required by the law, although it might perhaps still be justified as a 
security measure. But I think that in this case, there was another reason why SMF was 
justified in sending Mr J its own letter and asking him to sign it. (I have therefore not 
considered the security argument.)
Mr Js letter asking to VT the agreement began with the following sentence:
I am writing to inform you that I am exercising my right to terminate the above hire 
purchase agreement with immediate effect in accordance with Section 99 of the 
CCA 1974.
(CCA 1974 means the Consumer Credit Act 1974.) Taken on its own, that sentence seems 
to be perfectly clear. But later on in the same email, he also wrote:
Finally, I would remind you that as a consequence of terminating the agreement 
under Section 99 of the CCA 1974 and having met the relevant criteria under S. 
100(1) of the CCA 1974, my liability is limited to one half of the total price payable. 
Any additional costs, expenses, compensation or otherwise relating to a breach of 
the agreement are irrecoverable.
That was incorrect, because section 100(4) of the Act says:
If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the goods  
the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased by the sum required to 
recompense the creditor for that contravention
Paragraph 5 of the agreements terms and conditions requires the goods to be returned in 
good repair and condition. It goes on to say that otherwise the customer must pay SMF the 
cost of fixing any damage.
I therefore think that Mr Js letter was somewhat equivocal, in that he was asking to VT the 
agreement while at the same time either failing to understand his obligations under section 
100, or possibly refusing to comply with them. I will assume that it was the former. Given that 
his letter suggested that he had misunderstood what VT entailed, I think it was prudent and 
proportionate of SMF to ensure that Mr J was appraised of the law by writing back to him 
and asking him to sign its explanation and return it. SMFs letter included this passage:
The car must also be in a reasonable state of repair  If the vehicle does require 
any rectifications to bring it up to standard, you will be liable for these as per the 
terms and conditions of your agreement.
That is a reasonable and accurate summary of the law. It was two weeks before Mr J agreed 
to sign and return that document, but I dont think that is SMFs fault. So I do not uphold that 
aspect of this complaint.
I am minded to uphold Mr Js complaint about being given conflicting information about 
where to return the car. This delayed the return by a few days, and that inconvenienced him. 
So I am minded to award him £200 compensation for that, and for the related customer 
service issues.
There is no evidence that the car was not sold for the best price achievable, or that the sale 
was not carried out properly, or not in good faith.I agree that the quality of the images in the copy of the auction houses report is poor, and 
that it is not possible to tell from the photos how bad the damage is. But I dont think that 
I am obliged to only consider the photos and to disregard the text (the captions to the 
photos). I dont think that the auction house  a third party  would have fabricated the 
damage described, and so I think that SMF was entitled to rely on what the report says. Its 
clear that the auction house found damage, and the damage described is not trivial. 17 
issues were discovered, and although SMF waived five of them (for reasons which have not 
been explained, although I did ask), that still leaves 12 issues, three of which are interior 
damage (burns to the upholstery), and nine are instances of exterior damage. SMF has 
shown me the criteria it applies to evaluating the condition of a used car, which has different 
levels depending on the age of the car. The entry for a ten year old car (as it then was) says 
that a maximum of seven areas of exterior damage is acceptable, and that has clearly been 
exceeded. So on the balance of probabilities, I currently think that SMF was entitled to 
charge Mr J for the damage, but I will consider this issue again if Mr J provides the photos 
he says he took of the car before he returned it.
After Mr J challenged the fee he was charged to repair the vehicle, SMF sent him a final 
response letter in April in which it insisted that the fee had been correctly charged, and 
asked him to pay it. But Mr J continued to challenge the fee, which resulted in a second 
letter from SMF in May, giving him the same answer and again asking for payment. By then, 
SMF had defaulted his account and recorded this on his credit file. I have noted that the hire 
purchase agreement says on page 1 that If you miss a payment your credit record may also 
be affected. And later on, in the section entitled Use of Your Information, the terms and 
conditions say that any default will be reported to credit reference agencies. So SMF had 
warned him that the consequences of non-payment could include a default being reported to 
his credit file. But nevertheless, a default should not have been reported without first serving 
Mr J with a formal default notice. Service of a default notice was not required by the 
Consumer Credit Act, but it is best industry practice, as set out in the July 2016 edition of the 
Information Commissioners Offices publication Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies (under Principle 4).
I think if Mr J had received a default notice, then he would have promptly paid the fee, 
because thats what he did as soon as he learned about the default in June. I dont think it is 
necessary for me to award compensation for that, but I do intend to order SMF to remove 
the default from Mr Js credit file, because if SMF had done what it was supposed to do, then 
it is unlikely that a default would have needed to be recorded.
So I am provisionally minded to uphold this complaint in part, and (subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties) to order Specialist Motor Finance Limited to pay 
Mr J £200 and to remove the default from his credit file.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr J provided several photographs which had taken of the car before he returned it. These 
were forwarded to SMF, but they said they had nothing to add. (Mr J also made further 
comments about the default, but since I have already decided to uphold that part of his 
complaint, I have not considered this issue further.)
Mr J argued that the photos prove that he car was in good condition when he returned it.
What Ive decided  and why
I have studied the photos carefully. Having done so, I think that some of them support Mr Js 
case, and some support SMFs. Where no photos were available to show the parts of the car 
which were allegedly damaged, I have not changed my mind from what I said in my provisional decision  this is the case for the dents on the B pillar, and the water ingress to 
the lamps.
There are clear photos which show the right hand door and the right side mirror, but I cannot 
see any of the damage described by the auction house in relation to those parts. That is not 
to say that the auction house inspector was lying or not competent, but in the absence of 
corroborating evidence to refute Mr Js photographs, I think it would be perverse if I preferred 
the inspectors evidence to Mr Js. So I think it would be fair for me to disallow SMFs claim 
for this damage, and to require it to refund what Mr J paid for this. The charges for these 
items were £165 for the door, and £26:53 for the mirror.
The report says that the drivers door checkstrap was worn. It is visible in one of the photos, 
but I think the photo is inconclusive. I accept that it was worn, since it is attached to a moving 
part and so I would expect a significant degree of wear. But I cannot tell how badly it is worn. 
I infer that the inspector meant that it was worn beyond the point of what would be 
considered fair wear and tear, but I cannot verify that he was right to come to that 
conclusion. Given the nature of this part  it would incur some wear each time the drivers 
door was opened and closed  and the fact that the car was ten years old, I think a 
considerable degree of wear could reasonably be deemed to be fair wear and tear. So on 
the balance of probabilities, I have concluded that the charge for this item should also be 
refunded to Mr J, which is £32.60.
Altogether, those three items add up to £224.13.
I am satisfied that the rest of the damage reported by the auction house is visible in Mr Js 
other photos. To be specific:
The mark described as a gouge on the front bumper is visible in two photos as a 
black mark above the last letter on the number plate.
The burns on the rear left seat cover are visible in the photo of the back seats.
The picture of the left side of the car does not show anything at first glance, but on 
more careful inspection (including zooming in), I think there is clear evidence to 
support the reports findings of a poor colour match and poor repairs to the left door 
and the left quarter panel.
The burns on the drivers seat are visible in two photos of that seat.
The report describes multiple burns on the carpet, without specifying where they are. 
However, the photo of the carpet in front of the front left passenger seat shows 
multiple marks which I think are the result of cigarette burns, and I presume that this 
is what was being referred to.
I therefore find that those items were properly charged.
Putting things right
I think that fair compensation would be for SMF to refund some of the damage charges, and 
to pay Mr £200 for his trouble (as I said originally). The default must be removed from his 
credit file.
My final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited to:
Refund Mr J £224.13 in damage charges,Pay him £200 for his trouble,
Remove the default from his credit file,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman