DRN-4062238
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs M complain about the mortgage advice they received from an appointed 
representative of Openwork Limited, trading as The Openwork Partnership. Theyre unhappy 
that a two-year rather than a five-year fixed interest rate product was recommended to them.
What happened
Mr F and Mrs M approached Openwork for advice in 2020. They were first-time buyers and 
wanted to buy a property with a help to buy loan (which is a type of shared equity loan) and 
a mortgage. Openwork gave them advice and a recommendation about a mortgage.
The adviser recommended a two-year fixed rate mortgage. Mr F and Mrs M went ahead with 
the property purchase and a two-year fixed rate.
In September 2022, Mr F and Mrs M complained. They said the adviser told them they 
should take a two-year fixed rate because interest rates would drop further in two years time 
and they could then get an even lower rate. Had they not been given that assurance, they 
said they would have taken a five-year fixed rate, to tie in with the length of the interest-free 
period on their help to buy loan. But interest rates had risen significantly and they will now 
have to pay much more than they would have done if they had taken a five-year fixed rate.
Openwork said the advisers recommendation had been suitable given Mr Fs and Mrs Ms 
circumstances and what they had said about wanting to keep their payments as low as 
possible, and wanting to pay off some of their help to buy loan by borrowing more through 
remortgaging in the short term. It also said it was Mr F and Mrs M, not its adviser, who had 
thought interest rates would fall further. 
Our Investigator also concluded that the recommendation was suitable. Mr F and Mrs M 
didnt accept that. They said their phone calls with the adviser should have been recorded, 
and the adviser was lying and covering up their mistake. They also said there were 
discrepancies in the available documents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise Mr F and Mrs M will be very disappointed, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
The advisers duty was to give Mr F and Mrs M a suitable recommendation, based on their 
stated needs and circumstances. In making their recommendation, the adviser was working 
for Mr F and Mrs M, not for the lender they placed the mortgage with.
Mr Fs and Mrs Ms discussions with the adviser took place by phone and Openwork says 
they werent recorded. As our Investigator explained, theres nothing inherently wrong or 
suspicious in that. The adviser should, however, have kept records of their discussions, 
including of Mr Fs and Mrs Ms circumstances and the reasons for the advice they gave. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Fs and Mrs Ms recollections alongside the available documents 
from the time of the sale, which include a fact find, the advisers notes, key facts and 
mortgage illustrations, an email from the adviser to Mr F with details of the costs of different 
arrangements, and a suitability report. 
Mr F and Mrs M say these documents werent shared with them and they didnt sign them. 
They have also said the details of what they borrowed and on what terms are different  for 
example, they went on to borrow a lower amount on the mortgage and a higher amount on 
the help to buy loan than is set out in the documents, and they got a two-year rate of 1.29% 
rather than the recommended 1.44%. 
Its usual for mortgage arrangements to change over time, including between advice being 
given and a mortgage completing. So the fact that Mr Fs and Mrs Ms mortgage completed 
on different terms doesnt mean that the contemporaneous documents in respect of the 
advice they received are no longer relevant. They have complained that the adviser 
recommended they take a two-year fixed rate, and that is ultimately what they went ahead 
with  albeit they have said that in the event they got a slightly lower rate.
The suitability report, which Openwork says was sent to Mr F and Mrs M, says:
Initial rate period
I have recommended the initial rate period for the following reasons:
it provides the rate and features you require during the initial period whilst 
providing you with flexibility to review your mortgage arrangements again in the 
short term. The interest rate on your mortgage will revert to the lenders current 
variable rate at the end of the initial product term. This could mean that your 
monthly payments increase substantially
The initial rate period recommended strikes the best balance between the need for 
stability versus the need to minimize the monthly payments
The advisers notes of their discussion with Mr F and Mrs M say:
Initial rate period: As the clients believe the interest rate will go down further in the near 
future due to the coronavirus outbreak, and also would like to re-mortgage in a short term, 
if possible, to borrow more from the mortgage lender to pay off some of the equity loan, 
as soon as possible. Due to the above reasons, I have recommended a two-year fixed 
rate mortgage interest rate type: as the clients mentioned the stability of the monthly 
mortgage payment is extremely important to them, I have recommended a fixed interest 
rate mortgage.
The email the adviser sent to Mr F included details of how much he could expect the monthly 
mortgage payments to be on two-year and five-year fixed rates over different mortgage term 
lengths of 25, 28, and 31 years. Payments on a two-year fixed rate over a term of 31 years 
were the lowest, and thats what Mr F and Mrs M went ahead with.
I find nothing in the documents from the time of the advice to say that the adviser 
recommended a two-year instead of a five-year fixed rate because they expected interest 
rates to fall further in the following two years. And the adviser couldnt reasonably have 
known in 2020 that mortgage rates, and interest rates generally, would rise when they did or 
to the extent they did. There were other reasons for the advisers recommendation, as set 
out above, and I dont think their recommendation was unsuitable in the circumstances. Its unfortunate that things havent turned out as Mr F and Mrs M had hoped, but I cant fairly 
conclude that this is down to any failings on the advisers part.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman