DRN-3142888
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:  
Despite not being a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, Monzo has committed to the standards it sets. 
The starting position under the CRM Code is that banks should reimburse victims of 
APP scams. 
Monzo argues that it doesnt need to follow the CRM Code here as it considers the 
matter to be a civil dispute. But I disagree. Whilst its common ground that the travel 
agent Mr C paid was, at one point, operating legitimately, she was arrested for 
fraudulently selling discount holidays within one month of him paying the deposit. It 
will have taken some time for the police to investigate and arrest the agent. So it 
strikes me as unlikely that she was operating legitimately and intending to provide 
Mr Cs holiday so close to her arrest. Im persuaded this was an APP scam, and that 
the Code is therefore relevant. 
Under the CRM Code, there are reasons why a bank may not be expected to refund 
an APP victim. Relevant here is whether Mr C ignored an effective warning about the 
scam; and whether he made the payment without any reasonable basis for believing 
it was genuine. 
Whilst the £600 payment  understandably  didnt flag as suspicious, Monzo says 
Mr C would have seen the following confirmation of payee warning:
Youre sending money to someone we couldnt verify. You may not be able 
to get your money back if this does turn out to be a scam.
Im not persuaded this was an effective warning. I understand Monzo thinks the 
warning would have shown as Mr C put down that he was paying a personal account 
rather than a business account. The other account details were correct. Theres 
nothing in the warning specific or relevant to the scam Mr C fell victim to, or about 
how to tell if it was a scam.
Im also conscious that Mr C was using the travel agent based on recommendations 
from family and friends whod used her services before. Hed also found good 
reviews for her online. If hed looked into the agent further, he would have seen that 
she was correctly registered with Companies House. In the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded the warning was effective and ought reasonably to have stopped Mr C 
from making the payment.  
For similar reasons, Im persuaded that Mr C had a reasonable basis for believing he 
was paying a legitimate company for a genuine holiday. I appreciate the price of the 
holiday Mr C thought he was buying was slightly lower than hed found elsewhere. 
And Monzo found the protection the agent claimed to offer if he didnt travel to be 
suspicious. But Im not persuaded those factors would reasonably have alerted him 
that it wasnt legitimate. The company was properly registered, and Mr C was 
following a trusted recommendation. He also hadnt been on holiday for years, so 
may not have had detailed knowledge of what might be suspicious (rather than a 
competitive price/deal). In the circumstances, I consider it reasonable that Mr C 
thought he was genuinely paying a deposit to secure a holiday. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr C was the victim of a scam, but reasonably believed he 
was making a genuine payment. And Im not persuaded the warning Monzo says he 
saw was effective in the circumstances. So, in line with the Code its committed to 
follow, Ive decided that it should reimburse him for his loss.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, Ive decided that Mr C should be fully reimbursed.
I therefore direct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
refund Mr C the £600 he lost to the scam; and
pay 8% simple interest on that amount (less any tax properly deductible), from the 
date it declined to reimburse him to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right 
in line with what Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman