DRN-4436604
The complaint
Mr O complains that My Finance Club Limited (MFC) lent to him irresponsibly in relation to
seven loans over two years.
Mr O complains that the difficulties he has had repaying loan 7 has led to the outstanding
balance increasing from £496 to £700 and he thinks this is wrong. He says he ought not be
obliged to pay that much.
What happened
Using records from MFC, here is a table of the approved loans:
loan 
numberloan amount agreement date repayment date term (days)
1 £100.00 12/09/2020 30/10/2020 30
2 £150.00 31/10/2020 30/11/2020 30
3 £200.00 11/12/2020 22/12/2020 11
4 £200.00 11/01/2021 29/01/2021 18
5 £100.00 16/02/2021 26/02/2021 10
seven months gap
6 £100.00 29/09/2021 29/10/2021 38
nine months gap
7 £400.00 07/07/2022 outstanding 30
Mr O complained and the final response letter MFC sent on 28 November 2022 covered the
checks theyd carried out for each loan and so it said it did not lend irresponsibly. And as for
loan 7 it explained that the terms and conditions Mr O signed up to when he took the loan
were clear. And that interest and charges were applied in accordance with those terms.
MFC also said that when Mr O approached it in relation to his financial concerns it was
responsive to your needs and was flexible in the repayment of the debt. It has explained
and sent correspondence to show it asked Mr O for more details about his financial situation
in August 2022 following his change of circumstances and did arrange two repayment plans.
One plan was on 15 August 2022 which was three payments of £50 (two of which were
successfully paid). And another repayment plan was arranged on 14 October 2022 for
£138.40 due on 30 October 2022. This was not paid.
In the final response letter, MFC said that it had done all it should have done. It did not
uphold his complaint. Mr O referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service and in his
complaint form he considered that all seven loans had been lent irresponsibly. In relation to
the last loan  loan 7  he said:
The balance is now £700. Firstly, when I could not repay and fell into arrears, they
emailed me everyday and increased the balance. I cannot afford to pay back £700
and refuse to.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that MFC had not lent
irresponsibly. But that adjudicator did not answer the points about the loan 7 debt situation.
Mr O responded to the adjudicators view to say he was given 7 loans and had difficulty
repaying loans 1 and 2 as well as loan 7. Mr O thinks that MFC should have looked into his
finances more thoroughly because of the number of loans he had asked MFC for. And he
also raised the issue about the £700 debt he was being asked to repay on loan 7 which he
says is unfair because he agreed £494. So, he says he will not pay £700.
The unresolved complaint was passed to an ombudsman to decide. And having reviewed 
the circumstances she asked both parties for more information. She asked MFC for details 
of account notes and further information on how often it contacted Mr O in relation to loan 7. 
Shen then asked Mr O whether hed sent any bank statements to MFC and she also asked 
for details of his current situation including his employment. 
My colleague then issued a provisional decision setting out her thoughts of the complaint in 
September 2023. A copy of my ombudsman colleagues provisional decision follows this in 
smaller font and forms part of this final decision.  
Both parties have had an opportunity to raise any final points or provide any new 
submissions they wanted to make before a final decision was made. Neither Mr O nor MFC 
responded or had anything new or further to add. 
As the deadline for a response has now passed, Ive reviewed the complaint afresh before 
issuing this final decision. 
What was said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about this type of lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good
industry practice - on our website.
MFC had to assess the lending to check if Mr O could afford to pay back the amount hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. MFCs checks couldve taken into account several different things, such
as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Os income and
expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MFC should have done more to establish
that any lending was sustainable for Mr O. These factors include:
Mr O having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr O having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting the 
risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable);
Mr O coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr O. Here, there were significant gaps
in the lending relationship which persuade me against considering that there was a patternof lending developing.
MFC was required to establish whether Mr O could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr O was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Os complaint. Ive provisionally decided not to uphold
his complaint about the irresponsible lending and I explain here. The other point about the
loan7 debt Ive addressed at the end.
Irresponsible lending
Loans 1 to 5
MFC has provided detailed summaries of the information Mr O gave to it when applying for
the loans. For loans 1 to 5, the declared income was £1,900 each month after tax which
MFC said it had verified using information directly from his own bank and was satisfied it
was correct. Mr O has not disputed the income figures.
And for loans 1 to 5, Mr O declared similar figures for each of the categories which included
Housing, Utilities, food, credit to list a few of them. And for each of those loans the
disposable income ranged between £545 and £660. The loan values for loans 1 to 4 were
low value at between £100 and £200.
MFC carried out credit checks for each of the loans including loans 1 to 4 and the results of
those searches have been sent to us. I have reviewed them all. Theres nothing in those set
of results for any of these loans which likely would have led MFC to refuse loans of such low
value. And lenders such as MFC would have been used to seeing that applicants had
payday or short term loans on their credit files when approaching them for loans.
But it does not mean that would lead to MFC needing to do further checks or to have
declined Mr Os applications.
MFC has sent to us detailed submissions part of which explain the late repayments for
loan 1. For Loan 1 Mr O had contacted MFC and said hed experienced the illness Covid 19
and he could pay at the end of October 2020. He did that. Mr O acknowledged that he may
incur additional fees. And again  that would not have been a reason then consider that a
later application for loan 2 would necessarily have led to it refusing the loan.
I plan not to uphold the complaint about loans 1 to 5.
Loans 6 and 7
The significant gaps in the lending make a difference as to how I would expect a lender to
approach Mr Os applications. Having paid off loan 5 Mr O did not apply to MFC for seven
months and came back to ask for a low value loan of £100. I consider it fair and reasonable
of MFC to have approached Mr Os application as if he was a new customer and rely on the
information he gave to it about his income and expenditure figures.
Mr Os income had increased a little to £2,150 for loan 6 which, again, MFC said it verified.
And I find that £80 declared spending on food for a month to be unrealistic and for £20 on
utilities to be unusual considering the earlier figures were £100. But even if those figureswere doubled still the disposable income Mr O had presented to MFC would have been
enough to cover the loan.
MFC carried out a credit search and I have reviewed it. I do not consider that the credit
report revealed anything to lead MFC to think that Mr O was unable to afford the loan.
I plan not to uphold the complaint about loan 6.
After paying off loan 6 Mr O did not approach MFC for a further nine months and all I have
said about the gap after loan 5 is applicable here. Mr O was applying for a loan of £400 and
although larger than the earlier loans still a £400 loan was a relatively modest loan. He had
told MFC he earned £2,000 and had outgoings of around £850. Hes told us that he was in
employment and earning £1,900 each month. So they are about the same.
Mr O had declared to MFC he was spending £130 a month on credit, and I have reviewed
the credit search MFC carried out. It showed that he had the following:
- one mail order account with a balance of £240 on a £300 limit
- a credit card with a balance of £299 on a limit of £300
- a credit card with a balance of £195 on a limit of £200
- a credit card with a balance of £827 on £900
- an unsecured loan which is one that seems to vary as to the repayments. It may
have been an account which allowed Mr O to draw down funds and then pay off
intermittently. The outstanding balance was £319
- he had a balance to pay of £8 on his current account which suggests he may have
gone into his overdraft. But £8 is a low figure
So  using a 5% minimum repayment calculation then I think that at least Mr O had to repay
£66 a month towards his credit cards in total  plus a further repayment to the mail order
account which at 5% would have been around £12 and he had the outstanding balance on
the unsecured loan (whatever its nature) which I do not know the repayments for. So,
allowing £20 for that the total due the month coming would have been £98  Mr O had
declared £130 a month for credit and so that seemed about right.
And it was the figure MFC would have used and having checked his credit report then it
would have realised that figure was about right.
So, the £130 plus the £496 due for loan 7 would have translated into being about 31% of his
net monthly salary and Id not consider that to be particularly high for a one off short-term
loan. And on its own that would not be a reason to refuse the loan or for me to conclude that
this was an irresponsible lending decision. The disposable income (left after Mr O had repaid
all these items plus his living costs plus the MFC loan) would have left Mr O with £624.
Allowing for additional spending on utilities and on food  as the declared sums were low 
then still I think that MFC had carried out proportionate checks for a £400 loan and being the
first one in this third loan chain.
I plan not to uphold the complaint about loan 7.
Loan 7 and its repayments
Part of Mr Os complaint in November 2022 was:
The initial repayment was agreed as £486.00 and is now £700, even though I did
make 2 payments of £50.
This is harrassment [sic] and simply not affordable.
I request that the interest is removed from the loan as it never should have been
given to me.
The payment of £100 should also be deducted from the balance and the loan
removed from my file.MFC has said it asked Mr O for copy bank account statements to assist it with making
repayment arrangements in 2022 and never received them. Mr O says he was never asked
for copy bank statements. But hes sent a set to us and so Ive been able to review them.
They do not really assist as they cover January 2022 to April 2022. I mention here that for
the irresponsible lending part of the complaint I would not have expected MFC to have
obtained bank statements. Ive reviewed them to assess this part of the complaint
surrounding the debt.
The statements show me that Mr Os salary payment on 31 January 2022 was £2,300, for
28 February 2022 was just under £3,500, for 31 March 2022 it was £1,983.
The statements show that Mr O has (or had) another account as he usually transferred
money to that other account after receiving his salary. Ive no details of that other account.
As the payment plans were set up after Mr O had taken loan 7 in July 2022 then these do
not assist in resolving the issue surrounding why it is he thinks its unfair to have to repay the
loan or has ceased to repay the £50 instalments as agreed for loan 7.
Recently, through our adjudicator, I asked Mr O for his current situation in relation to
employment and other financial details but he has not given me any details.
MFC has sent to me, at my request, all copy account notes and I have reviewed them all.
I note that Mr O wrote to MFC on 3 August 2022 to say hes lost his job and was in financial
difficulties. He offered £50 a month to pay off the debt. He repaid twice.
MFC has explained to me recently as to why the loan amount has increased from the
original £496 to pay to it now being £700. It is comprised of £400 capital originally loaned
and £300 interest accrued since it was approved on 7 July 2022.
MFC has said Mr O has only made a total of £100 payment towards his debt (£50.00 on
02.09.2022 and £50.00 on 30.09.2022. This £700 figure was reached by 9 November 2022
after the last £50 repayment had been taken on 30 September 2022. Since then, no
response had been received from Mr O. Nothing was heard from him between
6 September 2022 and 28 November 2022.
MFC has explained that each time it communicated with Mr O it offered him help and
support in relation to the debt. Ive been sent details including copies of the FCA Arrears
FCA help leaflets and the FCA Default notice help leaflets giving advice and contacts. I see
that the account had got to £700 through an incremental increase and Mr O had been written
to regularly to remind him as the amount owed increased. Mr O was warned that he was at
risk of default at least twice and the default notice was served on 5 December 2022  six
months after the debt was first funded in July 2022.
MFC was right to have accepted the £50 a month as a repayment plan in August 2022 even
though I acknowledge that it ought to have been an interim measure until more financial
details could be obtained from Mr O. And I say that because Mr O had applied for the loan in
July 2022 and he had said he was in employment and had been earning £2,000 a month
and had £850 expenditure. So, my view is that it was understandable that MFC would have
wanted to know more information about Mr Os situation less than a month later. I dont think
its reasonable for an individual to say  about three weeks after taking the loan  that he
now could not afford it and then send nothing to back up those assertions for months despite
being asked to make contact.
Having said that - it would have been incorrect for MFC to have refused the £50 a month in
August 2022. And MFC did not refuse to do that. It accepted Mr Os repayment offer as an
interim arrangement.
However, since then I see that MFC has written to Mr O many times and theres been little
engagement, two payments followed by an irresponsible lending complaint soon after
receiving notification of the default.I consider that the interest accruing when the repayments were not being made was in line
with the credit agreement and in the absence of information or engagement by Mr O then
I dont consider it unreasonable that the interest accrued to make it £700. It was prevented
from going higher due to the FCA cost-cap regulations of which MFC were aware and
adhered to.
By December 2022 Mr O was several months in arrears on the account and the repayment
plan had failed and yet hed sent no supporting information to MFC to explain why.
Ive considered what the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says because it is the
body which has been created and has issued guidance for lenders as to what, how and
when information should be reported to the credit reference agencies.
This guidance can be found in its paper called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears,
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. I consider this to be good
industry practice and so it is entirely reasonable to see what the ICO says about when a
default ought to be reported.
The ICO sets out a clear expectation that should payments not be made in line with the
credit agreement then adverse information can and should be reported to the credit
reference agencies (CRAs).
2. Should a payment not be made as expected, information to reflect this will
be recorded on your credit file
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the
agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported
to the CRAs as being in arrears.
If this continues over time, the level of reported arrears will increase, which may
result in the lender taking some form of action. This could include notification of their
intention to report the account as defaulted (see Principle 4 below).
The guidance goes on to say
4. If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the revised
terms of an arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the
relationship has broken down.
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally
by the time you are 6 months in arrears. 
If an arrangement is agreed (see Principle 3 above), a default would not normally be
registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken.
So, the ICO is clear, that should payments not be made, then when the account is at least
three months in arrears a default can be recorded. So, I do not consider that MFC did
anything incorrect on that.
Mr O has used the term harassment. Harassment is a criminal offence and not one that
I am able to determine as criminal charges are prosecuted through the criminal courts.
What I am interpreting this part of Mr Os complaint to mean is that he feels the MFC contact
was too much and unreasonable.
Without any evidence from Mr O then I have had to rely on what MFC has given me. And I
consider that there is a balance to be struck between a lender reasonably following up with
its customer about missed and late payments and excessive contact such that the owner of
the debt feels that this was too much to bear.Using some of the Guidance in the FCA specialist Sourcebook - CONC 7.3.2
When dealing with customers in default or in arrears difficulties a firm should pay
due regard to its obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its
customers fairly.
And PRIN 2.1.1. A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them
fairly. And theres the older Office of Fair Trading Debt Collection Guidance (referenced in
CONC 7) in paragraph 3.7
Examples of unfair or improper practices are as follows: a.) contacting debtors at
unreasonable times and/or at unreasonable intervals
I reach a provisional conclusion that the contact between MFC and Mr O was not an
unreasonable amount. So, I am planning not to uphold this part of Mr Os complaint.
I see the most recent email was on 23 August 2023 offering an interest discount. Id
recommend Mr O engages with MFC about that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the complaint afresh and having done so I agree with the conclusions 
reached by my colleague and as outlined in the provisional decision (a copy of which can be 
found above in smaller font) for the same reasons. 
As no new comments or submissions were provided, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings my colleague made and for the reasons outlined above I do not uphold Mr Os 
complaint either about the lending decisions nor with the way the final loan has been 
manged. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding Mr Os 
complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman