DRN-3273904
The complaint
Mr K complains about the level of interest hes been charged on his interest-only mortgage 
with Mortgage Express.
Shortly after taking his mortgage out with another lender in 2007, it was transferred to 
Mortgage Express who Mr K says has failed to adhere to the mortgage terms and conditions 
when setting its Standard Variable Rate (SVR). Specifically, he feels the margin between the 
SVR and the Bank of England base rate (BoEBR) has been too high since 2009, and the 
interest rate hes been charged hasnt reflected reductions in the base rate and costs to 
Mortgage Express.
Mr K also says hes been unable to move to another lender because he hasnt had a stable 
income, so he feels trapped on Mortgage Express SVR.  
What happened
In 2007, Mr K took out an interest-only mortgage with GMAC-RFC. The loan amount was 
£229,000 and the term was 25 years. Mr K was to pay GMACs SVR, which was 7.24% at 
that time, with a discount of 1.45% until 30 June 2009. Following this, Mr K would pay 
GMACs SVR without a discount for the remainder of the term.
In June 2007, Mr Ks mortgage was transferred to Mortgage Express, who wrote to Mr K at 
around that time to explain that nothing had changed except for the banking details for the 
payments to be made to.
Until October 2008, the margin between the SVR and the BoEBR stayed below BoEBR plus 
2%. But from October 2008 onwards the margin between the two rates increased. By the 
time Mr Ks initial discounted rate expired in June 2009, the margin had increased to BoEBR 
plus 4.35% where it stayed until February 2022, when it reduced to 4.24%.
In October 2019, Mr K complained to Mortgage Express about the interest rate hed been 
charged on his mortgage. 
Mortgage Express issued its final response in December 2019. In summary, it said: 
The mortgage was transferred to it in line with the Mortgage Conditions and the 
existing rights and obligations remained the same. 
It was unable to offer GMACs SVR because this was exclusively for GMACs use. 
But Mr K had been placed on its own SVR, which was lower than the SVR quoted at 
the time of sale.
GMACs SVR was not directly linked to the BoEBR, and it is satisfied that the 
relevant interest rates have been correctly applied to Mr Ks mortgage in line with the 
Mortgage Offer. 
Unhappy with the response he received from Mortgage Express, Mr K referred his complaint 
to our service. In summary, he said:
Mortgage Express has failed to adhere to the mortgage terms and conditions when 
setting its own Standard Variable Rate (SVR). 
From the outset and, for an initial period after Mortgage Express took over the 
mortgage, the margin between the two rates had stayed at around 1.99%. Mr K feels 
this pattern of rate setting shows theres a requirement in the terms and conditions 
for the margin to stay at around BoEBR plus 1.99%.
He feels the margin has been too high since 2009, and the interest rate he has been 
charged hasnt reflected reductions in the BoEBR and costs to Mortgage Express.
He feels hes trapped in the mortgage because he doesnt feel hes able to move to 
another lender.  
One of our investigators looked into whether we can consider Mr Ks complaint. Having 
considered the relevant time limit rules, she felt we can only consider the complaint in 
relation to the events that took place from October 2013 to October 2019, which was when a 
complaint was made to Mortgage Express. 
Both parties accepted the investigators view on the jurisdiction matter, so she went on to 
consider how interest had been applied to Mr Ks mortgage since October 2013. Having 
considered this, she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she said:
She wasnt satisfied there was anything within the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage that said the lender must link the SVR to the BoEBR; only that it may do 
so. 
She also didnt think there was anything that said the lender must maintain a set 
margin above or below the BoEBR, and she didnt agree that the margin had been 
too high.  
She hadnt seen anything in the contract which was stopping Mr K from moving to 
another lender. She accepted there may be practical barriers, which Mr K had 
explained were due to his personal circumstances- but she didnt think this was 
something she could hold Mortgage Express responsible for.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. He reiterated his view that Mortgage Express had 
acted in breach of the mortgage terms and conditions when setting its SVR at more than 
1.99% above the BoEBR, and he felt the SVR had been increased unilaterally and unfairly 
since 2009.As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks mortgage with GMAC was transferred to Mortgage Express in 2007 and the mortgage 
continued to be governed by GMACs terms and conditions.
Ive read the Mortgage Offer dated March 2007, and under the heading 4 Description of this 
mortgage, it says the interest rate would be:
A standard variable rate of 7.24%, with a discount of 1.45% until 30 June 2009 giving a 
current rate payable of 5.79%.
From the 01 July 2009 the rate that will apply is GMAC-RFC Ltd standard variable rate, 
currently 7.24%, for the remaining term of the mortgage
Ive also read the Mortgage Conditions, and under the heading 3. Changes to the standard 
variable rate, it says:
3.1 If the interest rate is the standard variable rate we may vary it for any of the following 
reasons:
(a) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, in the 
Bank of England base rate or interest rates generally;
(b) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, in the 
cost of the funds we use in our mortgage lending business;
(c) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, in the 
interest rates charged by other mortgage lenders;
(d) to reflect a change in the law or a decision by a court; or
(e) to reflect a decision or recommendation by an ombudsman, regulator or similar body.
In this case, there was a transfer to Mortgage Express, who therefore became the transferee 
and gained the power to set the SVR, subject to the terms and conditions detailed above.
I think the mortgage conditions are clear here and in determining the fairness of the interest 
rate charged during the period of time that I can consider, Im satisfied that there isnt 
anything that compels Mortgage Express to link the SVR to the BoEBR or says that it will. 
Nor is there anything that suggests that the SVR would be a particular margin above the 
base rate.
I understand that from December 2008, Mortgage Express increased the margin between its 
SVR and the BoEBR to 2.84%, rising to 4.34% in March 2009 where it stayed until February 
2022, when it reduced to 4.24%.Importantly, during the time period I can consider, from October 2013 onwards, I can see 
Mortgage Express changed its SVR on the following occasions:
From September 2016 the SVR reduced from 4.84% to 4.59%
From December 2017 the SVR increased from 4.59% to 4.84%
From September 2018 the SVR increased from 4.84% to 5.09%
From April 2020 the SVR reduced from 5.09% to 4.44%
Im satisfied the terms and conditions do allow the lender to vary the SVR independently of 
the BoEBR. In considering whether Mortgage Express did this fairly and reasonably during 
the time period I can consider, Ive considered the relevant law - specifically the Unfair 
Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR).
Having reviewed this legislation, some important considerations are whether the terms in    
Mr Ks agreement go further than reasonably necessary to protect GMACs legitimate 
interests, whether the SVR variation clauses are sufficiently transparent, and whether there 
were significant barriers to Mr K dissolving the contract.
I think the reasons listed in the terms and conditions that GMAC may vary the interest rate 
may be considered broad and open to interpretation. It follows that I think that its possible 
that a court may find some of the terms allowing GMAC to vary the SVR unfair, in relation to 
the unilateral discretion for GMAC to vary the rate and the possible lack of transparency of 
when a particular term would be engaged.
Although, more generally, I dont think the concept of an SVR, or a variable reversion rate is 
an fundamentally unfair one. Its a common feature of the UK mortgage lending market. A 
reversion rate allows a lender to attract new customers with a preferential initial rate, while 
building in the flexibility a variable rate allows to manage its longer-term costs. Many 
borrowers treat the reversion point as an opportunity to shop around for another preferential 
rate  either with their existing lender or moving to another lender.
I have also considered whether there were any significant barriers to Mr K exiting the 
mortgage. There was no Early Repayment Charge (ERC) applicable to Mr Ks mortgage 
after 30 June 2009. So, he was free to re-mortgage elsewhere without having to pay a 
charge to end the existing contract with Mortgage Express.
Had Mr K re-mortgaged elsewhere, he would likely have incurred some general fees and 
possibly some legal costs, but Im not persuaded this would be considered a significant 
barrier to exit, as any borrower would incur these costs if they decided to move to a new 
lender.
But even if the terms were considered to be unfair, that wouldnt necessarily mean that there 
has been unfairness. Under our rules I am required to consider what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. That includes  but is not limited to  relevant law.
So, Ive also thought more broadly about whether, and the extent to which, the way in which 
the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mr K in the interest charged to 
him from October 2013 onwards. In doing so, Ive considered the historic context which may 
have contributed to the interest rate charges from October 2013 onwards and whether 
Mortgage Express had legitimate reasons for varying the rate in the way it did.Between 2007 and 2009 there was a time of significant change in the wider lending market 
as a result of the global financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses, 
which are not generally linked to the BoEBR, and this was reflected in changes to a number 
of lenders interest rates charged across the market at the time.
Mortgage Express has explained that to avoid collapse, it received State Aid in the form of a 
government loan. I understand the interest on that loan was linked to the London interbank 
offered rate (LIBOR), rather than the BoEBR. And I think its important to note that at the 
time of the global financial crisis, whilst the BoEBR fell, the LIBOR increased. Considering 
this, I dont think Mortgage Express has acted unreasonably by not passing on all of the 
reductions in the BoEBR to its SVR, in line with term 3.1(b) of the Mortgage Conditions. 
On balance, Im satisfied Mortgage Express acted reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage in varying the SVR the way it did.
And considering all of the circumstances, I dont think these changes resulted in unfair 
treatment for Mr K or that Mortgage Express acted in a way other than to protect its 
legitimate interests.
Mr K has also told us that hes been unable to move to a different lender because he hasnt 
had a stable income and hes felt trapped with no choice but to pay Mortgage Express SVR.
Its very unfortunate that Mr K has ended up with a closed book lender that doesnt offer new 
rates to any of its customers. The rules of mortgage regulation dont say that a lender must 
offer new interest rates and theres nothing in the mortgage agreement that says Mr K is 
entitled to a new rate. So, Im unable to say that Mr K should have been offered a new rate.
I do appreciate the lending environment in 2007, when Mr K took out his mortgage, was very 
different and now its much harder to get an interest-only mortgage. Which means its much 
harder to move an interest-only mortgage to a new lender, especially in Mr Ks 
circumstances where hes unable to demonstrate a stable income. However, theres been no 
charge applicable for Mr K exiting his mortgage early since July 2009, and I cant see 
Mortgage Express has prevented or hindered Mr K from exiting the mortgage. It follows that I 
dont think Mortgage Express is responsible for Mr K not being able to move to a new lender.
Considering everything, Im not satisfied that Mortgage Express has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman