DRN-2873901
The complaint
Mr J complains that he is getting marketing calls from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS).
What happened
Mr J opted out of marketing calls and other communications from RBS. On 8 March 2021 he 
received a call from RBS offering a financial review.
Mr J complained. He said he was getting frequent calls from RBS about a financial review  
and he considered these were just sales calls dressed up as a review  to get round that 
hed opted out of marketing calls. He wants RBS to stop this and pay him compensation for 
his time dealing with the issue.
RBS apologised. They said there was one call of this nature  from their local branch 
Customer Care team. The intention was to offer a financial health check - to ensure 
customers were happy with their service. Theyd now removed Mr J from that list and 
process. He wouldnt be called again.
Mr J brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said RBS had dealt with Mr Js complaint 
reasonably. He was content that RBS intentions were to provide a better service and not to 
sell products. He could see that his name had been removed from that list. And hed opted 
out from marketing calls previously  and RBS had noted this in their records. 
Mr J asked than an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that Mr J must have been annoyed by the call made on 8 March 2021  hed opted 
out of marketing calls and RBS contacted him to discuss a financial health check. I can quite 
see that Mr J wouldve seen this as RBS marketing their services  which he felt 
uncomfortable with and didnt want. He said this was RBS getting round the rules.
Equally, RBS told us that the intention of the call was to ensure the local branch were 
providing a good service. And  theyve now removed Mr Js name from that list, and he 
wont be called again. Ive also seen that Mr J has opted out of marketing calls and 
correspondence  this is showing in RBS records prior to what happened.
RBS have apologised. I can see that this must have been frustrating for Mr J. In terms of 
compensation  RBS havent offered any, so its down to us to decide if thats appropriate. 
The award of compensation is a subjective matter. Our service has set out some guidance 
on it  we say that a moderate award might be considered where theres been financial loss, 
or where for example a business hasnt put things right and a customer has had to call 
several times. In this case, I cant see theres been any financial detriment to Mr J. And the 
evidence Ive seen was that RBS dealt with his complaint when he called them the day after 
the call he received on 8 March 2021. So, in this case, I dont think an award of 
compensation is appropriate.
So  and I know Mr J will be disappointed by my decision  I wont be asking RBS to do 
anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman