The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with how Axa Insurance UK Plc (Axa) settled a claim they made 
under their contents insurance.
What happened
In October 2019, there was a break in at Mr and Mrs Rs home. A number of items were 
stolen, but these parts of the claim were settled. However, Mr and Mrs R say theyre 
unhappy with how Axa is intending to settle their claim for a compactor plate machine. They 
say replacement model theyve been offered is a lesser value machine than the one stolen, 
and it wouldnt carry out the same work as the one stolen. They feel theyre being offered 
this as they cant provide proof of how much they paid for the compactor. In order to put 
things right, they want to be paid the full cost of the compactor - £1,295 instead of the £819 
theyve been offered. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint, Axa said where its not provided with proof of 
purchase, the policy allows for it to provide a standard replacement  which is what 
happened here. Our investigator thought Axa had acted fairly and didnt recommend it 
needed to take any further action to settle the claim, but Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with 
these conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the background to the claim isnt in dispute, Ive started by considering the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy. They state:
         "What you must do after making your claim
To help prove your claim we may require you to provide original purchase
receipts, invoices, bank or credit card statements, instruction booklets,
photographs, utility bills, pre-purchase surveys or plans and deeds of your property."
Im satisfied its reasonable for Axa to ask Mr and Mrs R to show they owned the items 
theyre claiming for, and then decide how to settle the claim based on the information 
provided. And where Mr and Mrs R have been able to show they owned the items theyve 
claimed for; these parts of the claim have been settled. 
DRN-1671769However, Mr and Mrs R havent been able to evidence the make and model of the 
compactor plate machine that was stolen. As a result, Axa has offered them a cash 
settlement for what it says is a standard model. And, in the circumstances, I think this is a 
reasonable outcome. 
If Mr and Mrs R are able to show Axa evidence of the model they owned or how much they 
paid for it, then Id expect Axa to consider this. However, based on the information available 
to me, I dont think Axa has acted unreasonably. Im not intending to direct it to increase the 
offer its made to settle Mr and Mrs Rs claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman