DRN-3884120
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as 
RSA Insurance (RSA)s decision to reject a claim they made for an escape of water and its 
failure to provide a proper explanation as to why. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr and Mrs O discovered a small gap in the shower sealant. A plumber 
attended and discovered water damage underneath the shower. Mr and Mrs O made a claim 
to their insurer RSA. 
RSA instructed an assessor to inspect the damage to decide if their claim was one covered 
under the policy. 
In November 2021 following the inspection, RSA said it wouldnt meet their claim. RSA said 
the damage had been caused by a gap in the sealant in the shower tray which led to water 
escaping over a prolonged period of time. 
Mr and Mrs O asked RSA to explain why their claim wasnt covered under the policy but they 
didnt receive a satisfactory reply. In January 2022 they raised a complaint. 
In September 2022 Mr and Mrs O asked us to look at their complaint as they said they 
hadnt received a response from RSA. 
RSA provided a copy of its file to us - and this included a copy of a final response letter to Mr 
and Mrs Os complaint dated 17 June 2022. 
Our Investigator thought RSAs decision to decline their claim was reasonable. But he 
thought RSA hadnt answered Mr and Mrs Os requests for further information between 
November 2021 and August 2022. Mr and Mrs O wrote to RSA after it issued its final 
response letter and it was clear from this correspondence they hadnt received the requested 
information from RSA about why it declined the claim. 
The Investigator thought RSAs service to Mr and Mrs O had been unreasonable in failing to 
answer their requests for clarification around its decision until June 2022. For the distress 
and inconvenience caused by this, he recommended RSA pay Mr and Mrs O £200 
compensation. 
Mr and Mrs O accepted the Investigators findings. They reiterated that they didnt receive 
the final response letter or replies to their calls and emails after this date. The Investigator 
provided them with a copy of RSAs final response letter.
RSA didnt agree. It said the assessor and its claims team explained why it declined the 
claim. It asked if we have evidence to show it didnt. It says Mr and Mrs O were aware of the 
outcome as this was what prompted them to raise a complaint.  
As RSA didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers provide cover for specified events such as a flood, storm or fire. They dont provide 
cover for every eventuality. 
The assessor who inspected the damage reported that the cause of damage was due to a 
failed sealant and grout. They reported that this had been ongoing for a long time and was  
causing the bathroom to begin to sink into the cellar below.
Photos show the joists underneath the bathroom to be rotted and a gap in the shower 
sealant which led to water leaking underneath the shower tray. 
RSAs policy excludes damage where the cause is due to gradual deterioration or wear and 
tear. This isnt an unusual exclusion as Ive seen it in most - if not all standard home 
insurance policies. So I think RSAs decision to decline the claim for an escape of water was 
fair.
Although RSA says the reason for declining the claim was explained to Mr and Mrs O - and 
its internal notes make reference to the exclusion for wear and tear - I cannot find any 
correspondence before its final response letter dated 17 June 2022 to support this. 
Its clear from their emails and letters to RSA since November 2021 that Mr and Mrs O 
needed more information in order to understand its decision. I dont think this was 
unreasonable. But I think RSA took an unreasonable length of time to provide this 
information when it declined the claim in November 2021. 
On 16 November 2021 Mr and Mrs O wrote:
Would you please explain, in simple terms, the rationale for reaching this decision 
and why, specifically, the wording of our insurance policy fails to cover such a claim.
On 12 July 2022 they wrote in reference to calls with RSA: 
He (the assessor) told me that my claim had been refused but gave no reason. I 
thought he would then resend the email to enable me to understand the full details 
but, to date, nothing further has been received.
On 8 August 2022, they wrote: 
I still expected to receive (agents name inserted here) letter confirming the decision 
that my claim had been refused and the reason why.
In its final response in June 2022, RSA told Mr and Mrs O why their claim was declined and 
made a reference to an exclusion under the policy for damage caused by rot. I dont know 
why Mr and Mrs O didnt receive RSAs final response letter - or a reply to their subsequent 
emails. But I think RSA should have provided a clearer explanation and referred to the policy 
wording exclusions at the point when it declined the claim - so that Mr and Mrs O could 
understand its decision. Mr and Mrs O say RSAs delay has in turn delayed their decision to 
arrange for the repairs to be carried out. For the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
length of time it took to respond, I think RSA should pay Mr and Mrs O £200 compensation. 
Its clear that the lack of explanation behind the decision and the time it took to provide one 
caused Mr and Mrs O to contact RSA several times over a seven month period without an 
adequate response. I think this caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as RSA Insurance to pay Mr and Mrs 
O £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as RSA must pay the compensation within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs O accept my final decision. If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year
If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as RSA considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs O 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs O a tax deduction certificate if they 
asks for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman