DRN-3322370
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated it unfairly by 
delaying and then giving an unfair decision on a loan application.
The complaint is brought on Ss behalf by its director, Mr A.
What happened
S had a business account and Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with HSBC. In April 2021, it 
applied to the bank for a £50,000 loan through the Recovery Loan Scheme (RLS). S 
received an acknowledgement that its application had been received, but then received no 
further updates from the bank.
Mr A contacted HSBC repeatedly by phone and email between May and August, explaining 
that he needed the loan funds or S was at risk of collapse. He explained that he was abroad 
progressing business opportunities for S and needed the extra funds to import goods for 
trading.
The bank scanned Ss application onto its system in July and told Mr A that Ss account had 
been restricted, and that the loan application couldnt be progressed until this had been 
resolved. HSBC said the relevant team would be in contact in due course, but Mr As calls 
and messages werent returned as agreed. So at the end of August Mr A made a complaint 
about Ss account restricted and the delay in progressing the loan application. 
HSBC decided to decline Ss loan application at the end of September. The bank said it 
wasnt able to approve the application as there hadnt been any turnover through Ss 
business account in the last twelve months. 
The bank did, however, accept it had taken longer that it should have to process the 
application due to the account restriction. HSBC apologised and offered £50 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused. Mr A didnt think this was enough to put things right and 
wanted to know why Ss account had been restricted, so he asked this service to look into 
Ss complaint.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part and that HSBC increase its 
compensation award by a further £100. She said she wasnt able to disclose why Ss 
account had been restricted, but she was satisfied with the banks reasons for doing so. She 
also thought the banks decision to decline the application was reasonable, but that HSBC 
had delayed Ss application and not given Mr A reasonable updates - which meant hed 
repeatedly contacted the bank and often not received a response. 
HSBC accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr A didnt. He said the 
compensation wasnt enough to cover the costs hed incurred running and developing the 
business in anticipation of the loan, or the call costs from contacting the bank as hed been 
told Ss application was fine and it would receive the loan. 
Mr A also said the delay caused by HSBC in making its decision meant he couldnt apply 
through the RLS with another lender. He asked for an ombudsman to review Ss complaint 
and the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A is unhappy with HSBCs decision to decline Ss application as he says he was told by 
the bank that S would receive the loan. He also says that he incurred travel costs which he 
expected to be covered when S received the loan. However, I havent seen that HSBC told 
Mr A that S would receive the loan, only that its application had been received successfully. 
The information that Mr A has provided, which refers to the expected drawdown of a loan, is 
in relation to Ss BBL application, not the RLS loan. I can see that Mr A repeatedly contacted 
the bank and explained the need for an urgent decision from HSBC, but all the 
correspondence which refers to the RLS loan says that the dedicated team will contact Mr A 
about the application, not that the loan was or would be agreed. So I cant reasonably ask 
HSBC to cover the costs Mr A says S incurred because he expected the loan to be agreed.
Mr A says HSBCs decision is unfair as S needs the loan to import its goods to continue 
trading. Under the Scheme, for an application to be successful a borrower had to have a 
business proposition that a lender would consider viable. HSBC used transactions through 
the account as a primary consideration of Ss viability in line with its discretion under the 
Scheme rules. And when the bank undertook its checks on Ss application, it noted that 
there were no credits to Ss business account, so it didnt think the lending proposition was 
viable and declined the application. I think that was reasonable. 
Mr A also told us he was unhappy that Ss account was restricted, and that HSBC wouldnt 
tell him the reason for this. I acknowledge Mr A is unhappy that neither the bank nor this 
service has given him the information he wants about Ss account restriction. But HSBC has 
provided us with the information on which its decision was based, and having reviewed this, 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the bank to take this action in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. I am sorry that Im unable to share more information with Mr A, 
and I appreciate this leaves him in a frustrating position. However, HSBC isnt obligated to 
share more information than it already has, and I cant fairly require it to do so.
Mr A says that HSBC has treated S unfairly by repeatedly saying it would arrange a call back 
and then not doing so. And that this has caused S inconvenience and prevented the 
business applying under the RLS with another lender. I can see that HSBC gave Mr A its 
decision to the decline Ss application before the RLS had ended, and based on the 
timescales here, I think S would have had time to apply with another lender had it wished to 
do so. 
However, I think its fair to say that S was caused inconvenience by HSBCs actions. I can 
see that it took around four months for Ss application to be loaded onto the banks system, I 
understand that HSBC has told us it was experiencing some delays, but I dont think this was 
a reasonable timescale for the application to be uploaded and I dont think it was fair that 
Mr A wasnt given a meaningful update during this time.
Ive also seen that over the six-month period it took HSBC to make its decision to decline Ss 
application, Mr A says he repeatedly contacted the bank for an update and was given 
inaccurate information. He was told that he would receive a response from the RLS team, 
but I can only see that this was attempted on one occasion. If HSBC was unable to call Mr A 
back as requested, for example because he was abroad, I think the bank should have made him aware of this and provided an alternative method of contact. 
Mr A says that S incurred significant call costs as he had to call the bank from abroad, so he 
didnt think the £150 compensation was enough. However, Mr A hasnt provided an 
approximate value of the call costs or provided any evidence to demonstrate the costs that 
he says S incurred. And I cant reasonably ask the bank to refund these expenses when 
there isnt any evidence to support Mr As claim. In conclusion, I think that S was caused 
inconvenience by the banks actions and based on all the evidence available I think HSBC 
should pay S a total of £150 compensation to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay S 
a total of £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman