DRN-3954860
The complaint
Mr K complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) failed to protect his 
pension fund, resulting in it falling in value. He also says that Scottish Widows charged him 
fees but did not manage his pension fund in return. He believes that the fund would be worth 
around £50,000 more if not for this and would like it to be restored to that value.
What happened
Mr K started a Scottish Widows personal pension in 2010 through a former employer. The 
pension was invested in a Lifestyle Switching profile designed for taking tax free cash and an 
annuity at age 65. 
Mr K left his job in 2014 and contributions stopped. By the time he reached age 65 the 
pension had been switched out of growth investments into two funds that aimed to protect 
the value of the tax free cash and annuity Mr K could buy with the fund (Cash and Pension 
Protector) although he chose not to take benefits. He made no changes to the investments. 
In April 2021 the value of the pension was £135,283.89 and a year later it had fallen to 
£121,343.19.
In June, Mr K complained to Scottish Widows, as he felt that they were not protecting my 
pension. He compared how his pension had performed to the performance of a FTSE 
tracker, which he said would have produced a fund £36,000 higher. 
Scottish Widows rejected his complaint, explaining, in summary, that the funds he was 
invested in were subject to market movements and did not provide any guarantee of either 
fund value or returns. The Pension Protector fund aimed to protect the annuity purchasing 
power of his pension, but it was not immune to falls in capital value.
Mr K did not accept this. He thought that the fund should not have fallen in value by as much 
as it did, which he believed was due to mismanagement. 
He also felt that, because Scottish Widows had completed the Lifestyling process, and 
offered him the opportunity to select alternative funds, they were no longer providing any 
service for the fees he paid. 
Mr K then brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator provided their opinion, not 
upholding Mr Ks complaint because Scottish Widows had managed the policy as they 
should have. Mr K didnt agree so the case was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether Scottish Widows acted fairly in relation to the management 
of Mr Ks pension. 
Mr Ks pension was set up with a Lifestyling approach to investing based on the assumption 
that he would take 25% of the fund as tax free cash and buy an annuity with the rest at age 
65. 
So in the earlier years the pension was invested for growth, then moved gradually to 
investments that were designed for the policyholders intended retirement date and method 
of accessing the fund. 
By age 65 the fund was split 75% in the Pension Protector fund and 25% in Cash. The 
process began some years earlier  in April 2014, £70,905 of the total value of £90,458 was 
in the growth-seeking investment, Pension Portfolio Four. This gradual change is what the 
policy was set up to do. From what I have seen Scottish Widows followed that process 
correctly. 
As time went on and particularly as Mr K approached his selected retirement age of 65, he 
was provided with regular statements showing the value of the pension and the changing 
fund profile. 
Scottish Widows prompted Mr K on many occasions to think about his pension and how it 
was invested. For example the 2014 statement said Please take this opportunity to consider 
whether your plan still meets your aims; in 2017 Scottish Widows wrote to say that Mr Ks 
selected retirement age was coming up and signposted various sources of information to 
help him decide. The 2020 statement asked Mr K Are these funds still right for you? and 
suggested that he review the funds.  
So Mr K had plenty of opportunity to look at his funds and consider whether they still met his 
needs. Although his plans had apparently changed from what was chosen at the outset, he 
didnt make any changes to the funds to reflect that. 
So I find that Scottish Widows acted fairly in managing the Lifestyling of Mr Ks pension, 
informing him about his choices and keeping him updated about the progress of his 
investments. 
Although Mr Ks pension stayed invested as if he was going to take tax free cash and an 
annuity at age 65, that is not what he did. But Scottish Widows would not have known that 
his plans had changed unless he told them.
The issue was not that Scottish Widows mis-managed the pension, but that the underlying 
investments were no longer appropriate for what Mr K wanted. But that is not Scottish 
Widows fault, they could only manage the pension according to Mr Ks instructions. 
But despite that, I can see that Mr K is still disappointed that his pension fell in value. So I 
have considered how the Pension Protector Fund and the Cash fund were managed.
The Cash fund was for the 25% of the fund that was intended to be drawn as a tax free lump 
sum. This fund invests in cash deposits to avoid the risk of large capital losses. But when 
interest rates are low the cost of managing the fund can mean that the fund falls in value. So 
the fund should really be considered a short term solution.
The other 75% was invested in the Pension Protector fund. This aimed to protect the amount 
of annuity that could be bought with the fund. To do this, it invested mostly in fixed interest 
securities, the same assets life insurance companies use to back their annuities, and which 
rise and fall in value as interest rates change. So if interest rates fall the cost of providing the 
same annuity income would rise, and so would the value of the fixed interest securities. So 
the Pension Protector fund would also rise in value so it could buy roughly the same level of income. On the other hand, if interest rates were to rise the cost of an annuity income would 
fall, as would the value of the Pension Protector fund, but despite the fall in value it would 
still be able to buy the same level of income. And in 2022 interest rates did rise, which is why 
the fund fell in value. 
So although the Pension Protector Fund does not provide capital protection, it does protect 
the amount of pension that could be bought with the fund. I have seen no evidence that 
Scottish Widows gave Mr K misleading information about these funds or said that they 
offered guarantees.
Mr K said that he feels that a much better return could have been achieved by investing in a 
FTSE tracker. But that is not a fair comparison because a FTSE tracker aims to match the 
performance of the FTSE index, which bears little relation to the cost of an annuity. And it 
would invest in very different underlying investments as a result. The Pension Protector fund 
would not be allowed to invest in FTSE shares, no matter what the fund manager thought 
about the prospects of doing so. Scottish Widows offered other funds for those who wanted 
the returns shares might provide. 
So I find that Scottish Widows have managed the Cash and Pension Protector funds as they 
were supposed to. Mr K thinks that Scottish Widows should have been able to avoid his 
pension falling in value, whilst still producing the sort of returns that could be expected from 
investing in shares such as via the FTSE. But that is not what Mr Ks funds aimed to do, nor 
would it be realistic to expect any fund manager to be able to do that reliably. 
Mr K could have reviewed his funds when he decided not to take tax free cash and an 
annuity at age 65. If he felt that he was unable to choose the right funds himself, he could 
have taken financial advice or, if he didnt want to pay for that, he could have used the other 
sources of information and guidance he was signposted to by Scottish Widows.
But Scottish Widows could not make those changes for him, nor could they advise him what 
to do. They could only manage the pension as they had been instructed, which was based 
on taking an annuity and tax free cash at age 65. 
Mr K has expressed concerns that he thinks his funds were not being managed. He wants to 
know what Scottish Widows were doing for the fees they charged. As well as managing the 
underlying funds, pension providers carry out administration, provide safe custody of the 
investments, manage the tax position and provide regular updates. And managing the 
underlying funds would include buying and selling investments, investing new money and 
income received, maintaining the portfolio within agreed parameters and reinvesting matured 
investments.
I accept that perhaps Scottish Widows could have offered a better explanation in their 
response to his complaint, but that does not amount to a mismanagement of the pension or 
the underlying funds. 
So for the reasons given above I find that Scottish Widows have acted fairly in how they 
managed Mr Ks pension and the underlying funds. I am not going to require them to do 
anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint for the reasons I have explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman