DRN-1683491
The complaint
Ms S has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc submitted two loan applications 
for her rather than one due to a website error. She isnt happy that both loans were approved 
and that it is only honouring the first loan. 
What happened
On 11 September 2019 Ms S applied for loans online. This was due to online problems with 
NatWests online banking system.  
NatWest looked into Ms S concerns. It explained that on the day she applied for the loan, it 
had experienced a technical fault with its online banking system, which allowed multiple 
applications to be made. It said this wouldnt normally be possible.
Its records showed that Ms S had applied for two personal loans on the same day. One for 
£15,000 across 60 months and one for £16,000 across 72 months. 
Its records also showed that the loan for £15,000 had a credit agreement signed online by 
Ms S. And whilst this was being processed, its system had allowed her to apply for the loan 
for £16,000; which it shouldnt have done. Whilst this was being processed the online 
application system also allowed the loan for £16,00 to also be progressed at the same time. 
Ms S contacted NatWest on 12 September 2019, to cancel the first loan. It explained that as 
it had been progressed before it received her application back for the loan for £16,000. So, it 
was the loan for £15,000 that was opened for her. And the loan for £16,000 was cancelled 
by it. 
Due to its system error, NatWest said that it arranged for the credit search carried out for the 
£16,000 loan application to be cancelled. It said this was done on 28 October 2019. 
Ms S complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. She explained that she didnt 
think this service had the power to require NatWest honour the subsequent application for a 
£16,000. But she thought it should pay her £100 in recognition of its errors.
Ms S disagreed and reiterated that she had phoned the next day to cancel the first 
agreement. She had been sent the paperwork for the second application. The investigator 
responded to this explaining why she still didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong by 
not approving the application for £16,000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that a problem with NatWests online application system 
led to Ms S being able to make multiple loan applications through its online portal. So, I need 
to decide if Ms S has lost out as a result of those technical problems. I can understand from Ms S perspective that the problems she encountered with the online 
portal must have been frustrating for her. And being unsure as to whether her first loan 
application had gone through, she then applied for another loan. 
NatWest has told us that the problems it had with its online portal resulted in an error which 
allowed multiple loan applications to be made. If the system had been working properly, it 
told us that this couldnt have happened.  And based on the information available to me, I 
have no reason to doubt what NatWest has told this service in Ms S case.
Ive thought about what position Ms S would have been in if NatWest hadnt had these 
technical problems. It seems to me that if the system had been working as it should have, 
then Ms S would only have been able to apply for the first loan. And she wouldnt have been 
able to apply for the second loan when she did. The only reason she could have was 
because of the technical problems with the online portal. 
So, although Ms S thinks she has lost out, she hasnt as she is in the position she would 
have been in if the application process had proceeded as it should have. She has the loan 
for £15,000 that she applied for and on the terms she agreed to, which was approved by 
NatWest. 
I accept that Ms S may have suffered a loss of expectation as a result of being allowed to 
sign application forms for the £16,000 loan. But it would have been a matter of commercial 
judgement on the part of NatWest as to what money it was prepared to lend to Ms S and on 
what terms. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong by cancelling the second loan 
application she made and processing the first.
But as Ive explained above, I accept that Ms S has suffered a loss of expectation and 
frustration as a result of the online portal problems and being allowed to make a further loan 
application. And I think the £100 suggested by the investigator is sufficient to compensate 
her for the frustration and upset she experienced as a result of NatWests mistakes. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out above my final decision is to uphold Ms S complaint in part 
about National Westminster Bank Plc. 
My final decision
If Ms S accepts my decision, I direct National Westminster Bank Plc, to pay Ms S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman