DRN-2028636
The complaint
Mr S complains TSB Bank Plc unfairly closed his account and recorded a fraud marker 
against his name. 
TSB says Mr S made a fraud claim knowing that to be false.  This is not the first time he has 
made such a claim - so it says it has acted reasonably and fairly.
What happened
Mr S complained to TSB on 9th December 2019 about four transactions which had been 
made from his account  two on 14th November and two on 28th November 2019.  He said 
he had not made these transactions, did not recognise the merchant and had not received 
anything as a result.  TSB said that because of previous similar complaints, this complaint 
was forwarded for further investigation.
What TSBs investigation showed was that the items ordered were some type of diet pill, the 
merchant held Mr Ss details on an account - and could also show that the items were 
delivered to Mr Ss address.
As a result, TSB rejected Mr Ss complaint, closed his account and then recorded a CIFAS 
marker.
When Mr S came to us, he said he had remembered eventually that he had ordered the pills 
 he said he realised after he had spoken to TSB.  However, he hadnt realised the 
merchants terms and conditions meant that he would be charged for the first order if he 
didnt cancel.  
But TSB never contacted him again, so he was unable to let it know.  He said the fraud 
marker was causing him difficulties and would like it to be removed, along with any other 
markers placed with credit reference agencies.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask TSB to do anymore.  Whilst Mr S now accepted he 
had authorised the payments, he had made a fraud claim despite being given every 
opportunity by TSB to recollect he had ordered these items.  Not only had he ordered them, 
he had taken delivery a few weeks earlier  yet he told TSB his health didnt allow him to use 
pills like this.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S accepts he authorised the payments.  He says he didnt check the terms and conditions 
 but that doesnt negate his authority.  So, the matter left for me to make a finding on is in 
relation to the CIFAS marker and whether TSB has acted fairly and reasonably in recording 
the marker.
When Mr S complained of a fraudulent transaction, I would expect TSB to carry out an 
investigation.  Thats what it did here because it said on previous occasions, it had refunded 
Mr S when he made similar complaints.  However, its investigation showed Mr S held an 
account with the merchant and had taken delivery of an order.  All this was something which 
Mr S had denied doing during his telephone call on 9th December 2019 when he called to 
report the fraud.
Mr S says he did recall making the order after he had spoken to TSB and was waiting to be 
contacted again so that he could explain.  But during this time, Mr S knew he had made a 
fraud complaint - and this was the allegation which TSB was investigating.  He chose not to 
make contact himself  and I think that may have been because he thought he would wait 
and see whether he was going to be successful in obtaining his refund.
In the meantime, however, TSB took its investigation further and decided to end its business 
relationship with Mr S and record the fraud marker.
Ive thought carefully about the standard CIFAS requires of its member before making such 
entries.  Its a high bar and TSB must have reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or 
financial crime has been committed or attempted and that the evidence must be clear and 
rigorous such that it can be reported to the authorities for further investigation.  
Ive then considered the evidence which TSB was in possession of and the checks it had 
carried out.  Its investigation gave it reason to doubt the accuracy of what it had been told by 
Mr S  so I think it was reasonable for it to conclude the marker had to be recorded.
Ive noted the further submissions made by Mr S  but Im not persuaded these alter my 
view in any way.
In the circumstances, I have seen nothing to suggest TSB has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman