DRN-3777609
The complaint
Miss H complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) didnt reimburse the money she lost when she 
was the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) impersonation scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all
here. But briefly, Miss H was the victim of an impersonation scam. 
Miss H received a friend request on a well-known social media website. Miss H thought it 
was her friends mother and accepted. Unbeknown to Miss H it wasnt her friends mother 
and was in fact a scammer. Miss H was tricked into believing that her friends mother had 
been successful in obtaining money  a grant  from a foundation and that Miss H could also 
apply. Miss H ultimately made three transfers, totalling £1,253.16, in the belief that she 
would receive a grant of £50,000.
Miss H had her doubts about what she was doing when she made the payments  but 
ultimately discovered it was a scam when she spoke to her friend the next day.
 
Miss H reported the matter to Monzo and to see if it could recover any of her funds.
Monzo logged the details and investigated the matter. Monzo contacted the beneficiary bank 
(the bank where the funds were sent to) to see if any funds remained that could be 
recovered. Ultimately £16.63 was recovered and returned to Miss H.
Monzo also considered whether Miss H should be reimbursed for her remaining loss. Monzo 
considered this in line with the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code). Monzo isnt a signatory of the CRM Code but has explained that it is 
committed to applying the principles set out in it. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo said one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case. It said it gave a scam warning and that Miss H made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the 
customer was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that 
the person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. 
Unhappy, Miss H referred the matter to our service. One of our Investigators looked into 
Miss Hs complaint and thought it ought to be upheld in part. In short, while they agreed that 
Miss H didnt have a reasonable basis of belief when making the payments, she felt the 
second and third payments Miss H made were unusual and out of character and Monzo 
could have done more under the CRM Code to prevent Miss H from financial harm.
Our Investigator concluded both parties were therefore liable and considered reimbursement 
of 50% of the funds for the second and third payment would be fair.
 
Monzo disagreed with the Investigators opinion and maintained its position. As the matter 
hasnt been resolved, I have been asked to make a final decision on the outcome of Miss Hs 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, the CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but 
limited circumstances. If Monzo declines to reimburse its customer in full, it is for Monzo to 
establish that its customer failed to meet the requisite level of care under one, or more, of 
the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code itself. Those exceptions are: 
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate; or
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but none of these are applicable here.
After having carefully considered all of Miss Hs testimony around what happened, Monzos 
submissions and our investigators opinion, I agree that shared responsibility for the loss is a 
fair outcome in the individual circumstances of this case. Ill explain why.
Did Miss H have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
Having reviewed this aspect, Im satisfied there was enough going on from the outset that 
should have given Miss H serious cause for concern that something simply wasnt right.
Miss H was in essence being offered £50,000 for a fee of £1,250. The likelihood of what was 
being promised was just far too good to be true. From reviewing the messages and Miss Hs 
testimony she clearly had concerns at the time also. Miss H has advised that she searched 
on the internet and saw negative information regarding the supposed foundation, and it 
being targeted by scammers. Miss H also explained she didnt get any answers about the 
grant when she asked. Miss H also queried the beneficiary account name when she 
received a confirmation of payee no match and was told to skip past it. Miss H had also 
tried contacting her friend who didnt answer. 
To my mind, Miss H was more than reasonably aware that things werent quite right. And 
Miss H simply shouldnt have proceeded until she had spoken to her friend or her friends 
mother as this would have brought the scam to light. There were enough warning signs that 
meant Miss H should have been far more careful and carried out a check with her friend 
before proceeding with any payment.
Overall, I dont find that Miss H had a reasonable basis of belief when making the payments. 
So I think Monzo has correctly identified that under the CRM Code an exception to full 
reimbursement applies.Did Monzo do enough?
Good industry practice requires that regulated firms such as Monzo engage in the monitoring 
of customer accounts to be on the lookout for suspicious or out of character
transactions with an aim of preventing fraud and protecting customers from financial harm.
And under the CRM Code, where it identifies a risk of a customer falling victim to an APP
scam, it is required to provide that customer with an effective warning.
Monzo provided a warning initially when Miss H set up the new payee and made a transfer 
of £253.16 at 19:51 on 03 June 2022. Given the value of the payment, I dont think the 
CRM Code required that Monzo display an effective warning as part of the payment 
process. And Im not persuaded it wouldve had any grounds for intervening to question that 
transfer with Miss H before allowing it to be processed. That said, Miss H acknowledged 
seeing Monzos warning and explained that it did make her think that she may be at risk. 
So I think Monzo, while not required to give an effective warning under the CRM Code for 
the transfer of £253.16, did more than what was required of it in the circumstances of this 
specific payment.
However, Miss H went on to make a further two transfers of £500 each at 21:08 and 22:35. I 
dont think Monzo did enough here. As explained, Monzo has to be on the lookout for 
suspicious or out of character transactions in order to try and identify the risk of a customer 
falling victim to an APP scam. Here, taking into account Miss Hs account usage based on 
the statements provided, I consider the activity was unusual. Miss H rarely made faster 
payments; I can see she made three faster payments in the six months prior to the scam. 
And Im mindful that the faster payments she did make where to an existing payee. 
To my mind, I consider it is reasonable to suggest that Miss H, in setting up a new payee 
and making a payment, and then making a further payment to the same payee around an 
hour later can be considered as unusual activity. I think Monzo ought to reasonably have 
identified that Miss H was potentially at risk when she made a second, larger payment to the 
same payee as the risk of financial harm had increased. And in this instance, I consider it 
ought to have led to Monzo providing an effect warning as set out by the CRM Code for the 
second and third payments. Im not satisfied that its low friction warning provided initially was 
sufficient or that Monzo has demonstrated an effective warning was subsequently provided 
in relation to the second and third payments. 
So I dont consider, for the second and third payment, that is fair for Monzo to rely on the 
exception that Miss H ignored an effective warning to decline full reimbursement.
With all of this in mind, while I am sorry that Miss H fell victim to a scam, I dont find that she 
had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. So I consider an 
exception to full reimbursement applies under the CRM Code. 
But I also find that Monzo didnt meet its obligations under the CRM Code as it didnt provide 
an effective warning when I consider it should have done for the second and third payments.
Overall I consider a fair outcome in this case would be for Monzo to reimburse Miss H 50% 
of the second and third payments  with Miss H sharing some responsibility for the loss also.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Miss Hs
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd in part. I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Miss H:50% of payments two and three (less any sums from these amounts that have 
already been recovered and returned); and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Monzo Bank Ltd 
originally declined Miss Hs claim under the CRM Code until the date of settlement.
I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Miss Hs acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman