DRN-2484845
The complaint
Mr I complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited unfairly avoided a claim 
and cancelled his car insurance policy. 
Watford uses a third party company to manage its claims and all Mr Is correspondence has 
been with this company. For simplicity, Ive referred to Watford throughout my decision but 
any reference to Watford includes its agents, including its claims handling company.
What happened
Mr I took out comprehensive car insurance with Watford in June 2020. He included his son 
(for clarity, referred to here as Mr R) as a named driver on the policy. Mr R was involved in a 
road accident in September 2020 and Mr I made a claim under his car insurance. 
When it investigated the claim, Watford discovered that Mr R worked as a delivery driver for 
a fast food delivery service. It said wouldnt have covered Mr R if it had known this. It also 
told Mr I that information he provided at policy inception was linked to a fraudulent insurance 
application. Watford told Mr I it wouldnt have offered him cover if it had known about this 
fraud marker. It cancelled his policy and, in line with the policy terms, retained his premiums.
Mr I complained to this service. He said his son wasnt working when the accident 
happened, so wasnt using the car for work purposes. He also pointed out that his son had a 
separate pay-as-you-go car insurance policy with a third party insurer to cover him when he 
was working. He doesnt think Watford is being fair in cancelling the policy and would like it 
to settle his claim.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Is complaint shouldnt be upheld. He found that Mr I 
had failed to update Watford when Mr R took on a part-time job as a food delivery driver, a 
job that would have excluded Mr R from cover. He thought this was a reckless or deliberate 
misrepresentation which allowed Watford to cancel Mr Is policy and retain his premium. Our 
investigator also accepted Watfords evidence that Mr R was linked to an earlier fraudulent 
insurance application. He was satisfied that this also allowed Watford to cancel Mr Is policy 
and retain his premium.
Mr I didnt accept our investigators recommendation, so the case was passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues here:
Mr Is claim for his sons accident; and
Watfords discovery of an earlier fraudulent insurance application.
Ill take that second issue first because thats the only reason Watford gave Mr I for 
cancelling his policy in its November 2020 final response letter. The letter said: 
The information you have provided at inception of your policy has been linked to 
other fraudulent applications and therefore, your insurer excercised [sic] its right to 
cancel your policy. As the policy was cancelled due to this, the premiums are 
retained. As set out within [Watfords] policy wording, a copy of which was provided 
to you upon inception of your policy, if a policy is cancelled for fraud, any premiums 
paid up until that point, are retained. 
It referred to Section 17 of Mr Is policy (Our Cancellation Rights). This sets out situations 
where Watford can cancel a policy, including Where we have evidence of fraud or 
dishonesty. In these circumstances, it can retain the customers premiums.
Im not entirely persuaded by this. We asked Watford about the alleged fraud. This is 
commercially sensitive information so we cant share it with Mr I. But we can ask Watford to 
share this with us to check it treated Mr I fairly. Watford sent us evidence that a previous 
insurer cancelled Mr Is car insurance policy in November 2018 due to deliberate 
misrepresentation of information to that insurer.
But Watford told Mr I it cancelled the policy due to fraud. I dont think deliberate 
misrepresentation is the same thing at all. So Im not convinced by Watfords justification in 
its November 2020 letter.
Having said that, Watfords argument is that Mr I misrepresented his circumstances at 
inception of the policy and if he hadnt made this misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered 
him cover. So Ive considered what the outcome would be if Watford had applied the 
relevant terms and law regarding misrepresentation.
Section 17 of Mr Is policy allows Watford to cancel the policy Where You deliberately or 
recklessly tell Us something which is untrue or misleading in response to any question We 
ask You when You take out cover under this Policy, or amend Your cover under this Policy. 
I think this is the more relevant policy term. 
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
First, Ive looked at the question that Mr I was asked. Watford sent us Mr Is proposal form 
as well as a screenshot of a question he was asked. This question was: Have you or any of 
the drivers ever had insurance declined, cancelled or special terms imposed? Mr I 
answered No.
As I said above, Im satisfied that Mr Is previous insurer cancelled his policy due to 
deliberate misrepresentation. Im also satisfied that Mr I wouldve known about this, 
particularly given the insurer retained his premium. I think the question is clear and isnt open to misinterpretation. That means Mr Is answer to this question was wrong and, in my 
opinion, he didnt take reasonable care when answering it. This means there was a 
misrepresentation.
Next, I need to consider if the misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation. In other 
words, did it make a difference?
Watfords underwriter confirmed it wouldnt have offered Mr I cover if hed answered Yes to 
the question about whether hed ever had insurance declined or cancelled. For this reason, 
Im satisfied that this was a qualifying misrepresentation. And given Mr I must have known 
about the cancellation of his previous insurance, I think the misrepresentation was deliberate 
or reckless.
Ive looked at the actions Watford can take under CIDRA. Where a qualifying 
misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, and the insurer wouldnt have insured the 
customer but for the misrepresentation, it can treat the policy as void. As this means that, in 
effect, Mr Is policy never existed, Watford doesnt have to deal with his claim and can retain 
his premium. For this reason, I havent considered the issue of Mr Rs job as a fast food 
delivery driver. 
Finally, Mr I says he took the policy out through a broker. Ive seen no evidence to support 
this and Watford says its records show the policy was taken out via a price comparison 
website.
While I dont think Watfords reason for cancelling the policy  as set out in its November 
2020 letter  was clear, Im not going to interfere with its decision to cancel Mr Is policy and 
retain his premium. It follows that I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman