DRN-3292346
The complaint
Mr W complained about the advice he received from Wesleyan Assurance Society to take
out two free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plans.
Mr W is being assisted with his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). And
both Wesleyan and the CMC have actuaries working with them to resolve this matter.
However, for ease of ready the decision, Ill referred to all representations and arguments as
being raised by either Wesleyan or Mr W.
What happened
In May 1992, Mr W was advised by Wesleyan to start contributing to an FSAVC plan. At the 
time, Mr W was a member of the NHS Pension Scheme. The FSAVC plan (plan No. *0003) 
commenced with Mr W making a monthly contribution of £120 (gross). In September 1993 
another FSVAC plan was established (plan No. *0005) with Mr W contributing a gross 
amount of £80 each month. Mr Ws contributions to both plans ceased in June and July 
2002 when he decided to start contributing to the in-house added years arrangement 
through the NHS Pension Scheme.
In 2018, Mr W complained to Wesleyan about the sale of the FSAVC plans. In summary, he 
complained that:
The FSAVC plans were not suitable for his needs and as a result of them being 
mis-sold, hes lost money,
The full risks, implications, and alternatives in respect of the FSAVC plans were 
not fully and properly explained. And he wasnt provided with a full or descriptive 
comparison of benefits between his in-house scheme and the FSAVC plans,
He was unaware that the FSAVC plans had higher charges,
He shouldve been advised to purchase added years through his employers 
scheme.
6
Wesleyan reviewed the complaint. In its final response it explained that it had been unable 
to locate the sales paperwork for the FSVAC plan so it had upheld the complaint. And it 
said that it had forwarded Mr Ws file to its actuaries for a loss assessment to be completed 
on an added years basis.
A further letter was issued after the loss assessment had been completed. The letter 
confirmed the following:
Mr W had suffered a financial loss as a result of the advice received to take out 
the FSAVC Plan instead of being a member of the NHS Pension Scheme 
'added years' years arrangement from June 1992 to June 2002. The calculation 
had been based on the assumption that Mr W wouldve bought added years 
from June 1992, the earliest date possible after receiving advice from 
Wesleyan, and was based on a retirement age of 60.
In June 1992, Mr W couldve purchased 1 year additional pensionable service at 
a cost of 0.78% of pensionable pay payable for a term of 27 years to Normal 
Retirement Age (60). Between 1992 and 2002 the FSAVC contributions were 
equivalent to 8.849% of pay. If contributions at this level had continued to age 60, 
they would have bought 11 years 126 days added years. However, Mr W 
wouldve been restricted on the amount of contribution he could pay for additional 
service within the Scheme's overall maximum of 40 years pensionable service. 
The "headroom" available for Added years was 11 years 35 days and the 
percentage of pay to purchase these Added years would have been 8.655% 
through to age 60. The contribution rate of 8.655% represents 97.81% of the total 
FSAVCs paid.
In June 2002 Mr W maximised his contributions to added years and purchased 6 
years 337 days with contributions of 9% of pay. If, instead of starting the added 
years contract in 2002, Mr W had started in 1992, he wouldve continued paying 
8.655% for the maximum permitted added years. This means that since June 
2002, his contributions have been too much by (9% - 8.655% =) 0.345 % of pay. 
The overpayment of contributions to date is calculated to be £4,930, 
accumulating the over payment at Bank Base Rates. The discounted value of the 
overpayment between now and age 60 is £283. The total value for the 
overpayment is £5,213.
The total added years Mr W couldve contracted if he had been correctly advised 
in 1992 was 11 years and 35 days. The difference between 6 years 337 days 
(what he actually contracted for in 2002) and 11 years 35 days (what he could 
have contracted for in total) is 4 years and 63 days.
Plan *0003 fund value at 1 October 2018 was £91,046.22. Plan *0005 fund value 
at 1 October 2018 was £56,868.69. Both Plans benefitted from a valuable 
Guaranteed Annuity Option. At age 60, there was a Guaranteed Annuity Rate 
(GAR) of £7.016 per £100 fund value payable monthly in advance guaranteed for 
5 years and with no escalation. To use the funds to purchase an equivalent 
annuity based on the FCA calculation methodology (to be consistent with the 
valuation of the lost Scheme benefits) would require an amount now of 
£134,963.77 for Plan *0003 and £84,300.18 for Plan *0005, a total of 
£219,263.95. Therefore, the fund values on which the calculations are based is 
these higher figures. The GAR adjustment only applies to 75% of the fund, the 
balance being the maximum 25% which may be taken as tax free cash.
97.81% of the FSAVC Plan contributions wouldve been needed to purchase a 
contract for the maximum added years and this is reflected in the value of the 
Plans given credit for in the loss assessment below, which is reduced to 
£214,462.07.Calculations have been completed as at 1 October 2018 and are based on 
the financial assumptions at that date determined in accordance with FCA 
guidance.
The prospective value of the lost Added years £209,998.91
Plus the value of the over contribution £5,213.00
Less the value of the Plans £214,462.07
The loss is therefore: £749.84
When factoring in the tax deduction and the fact that 25% of the fund wouldve 
been tax-free, the total redress payable is £524.89.
Mr Ws CMC instructed a firm of actuaries to review the loss assessment. It didnt agree 
with the calculation methodology that Wesleyan had used. And after raising a number of 
queries with Wesleyan the matter was referred to this service to review. In referring this 
matter, Mr W provided detailed arguments to support its stance. In summary, Mr W said he 
was concerned about Wesleyans use of the GAR in the loss assessment. And he 
considered Wesleyan has used the value of his own contributions in the purchase of added 
years to offset the loss caused by the advice to purchase the FSAVC.
I issued my provisional decision in October 2021, explaining why I thought the calculation 
methodology Wesleyan had used was fair. My provisional findings are set out below. 
Provisional findings dated 11 October 2021
Wesleyan has upheld the complaint on the basis that the FSAVC plan was mis-sold. And it 
considers that, had he been given adequate information during the sale, Mr W wouldve 
chosen to buy added years in the NHS Pension Scheme in 1992, rather than taking out the 
FSAVC plan. As both Wesleyan and Mr W are in agreement on this matter, my decision 
focuses on what Wesleyan needs to do to put matters right; I dont intend to comment on 
the sale of the FSAVC plan and whether I agree that Mr W wouldve chosen added years in 
1992 as these matters no longer seem to be in dispute.
In considering what needs to be done to put matters right, Ive taken into account the 
law, any relevant regulatory rules, guidance and good industry practice.
This service doesnt have the resource to check the actual calculation that is in dispute. 
Instead, Ive considered the calculation methodology Wesleyan has used. Having done 
this, Im currently of the view that Wesleyans calculation methodology is fair and Im not 
minded to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The FSAVC Review Model Guidance and Review Bulletin 3
Following concerns about mis-selling, the regulator at that time, told businesses to carry 
out a review of some FSAVC plans sold between 29 April 1988 and 15 August 1999. The 
main aim was to review the FSAVC plans of consumers who might have lost matching 
contributions or subsidies that the employer wouldve paid, had an in-house AVC plan 
been started instead. The sale of Mr Ws plan didnt fall within the review because the 
NHS Pension Scheme didnt match or subsidise payments to its in-house AVC 
arrangement.
However, when we uphold a consumer's complaint that they shouldve been advised to 
take out the in-house AVCs instead of FSAVCs, we do generally tell the business to pay compensation in accordance with the FSAVC review guidance, even if the FSAVC plan 
didnt fall within the scope of the review.
However, it should be noted that, in terms of calculating loss, this guidance was 
predominately focused on consumers that wouldve joined their employers in-house 
defined contribution AVC scheme. The guidance provided limit information for calculating 
loss for consumers where it had been decided that they wouldve bought added years. An 
additional bulletin was issued in January 2001  FSAVC Review Bulletin 3. In this the 
regulator said that:
TREATMENT OF POTENTIAL DEFINED BENEFIT CASES
()(Model Guidance, Section 6  Loss assessment) The response paper to Consultation 
Paper 27 (published May 2000) explained the use of benchmark indices for simplified 
redress calculations but recognised that firms should be allowed to use actual performance 
to establish whether a loss has been suffered. This will avoid redress being paid where no 
loss has been suffered. (Response Paper 27, paragraph 73).
This principle applies to defined benefit cases as to all others, and firms may test to see if 
there is any actual or potential financial loss. (Defined benefit case means one where the 
case has failed compliance, or the firm has conceded compliance, and the firm has 
established that the investor would have chosen the defined benefit option). Firms should:
establish the fund value to be used for loss assessment;
consider whether any other firms are involved; and
determine the relevant period for loss assessment in accordance with the 
Model Guidance
Then, in assessing whether there is any actual or potential loss, the calculation should 
mirror that required for the Pensions Review with the exception that the assumption for 
future annual salary increases should be RPI + 2% (except where firms can demonstrate 
that this assumption is inappropriate). For details see paragraphs 6.18.5 and 6.18.6. It is 
not possible to conduct a simplified loss assessment for defined benefit cases. Firms 
should conduct a full loss assessment, in almost exactly the same way as they would for 
the Pensions Review. That is, in defined benefit cases firms have the option either:
to concede loss; or
to use actual performance in the loss calculation.
Firms cannot use benchmark indices in the calculation. Where, in defined benefit cases, 
the loss calculation indicates that there is an actual or prospective financial loss, or the firm 
concedes loss, firms should proceed either to causation assessment or to redress and 
settlement
While acknowledging that the model guidance and subsequent bulletin are useful, I 
dont believe strictly applying them is appropriate in the particular circumstances of this 
case.
Mr Ws FSAVC plans didnt fall within the initial scope of the review for which the guidance 
was intended. And the guidance wasnt written to address every potential scenario, 
particularly those arising some 20 years after the guidance was issued, where action taken 
to mitigate loss was taken many years before the complaint was made. And crucially, 
theres nothing in the Dispute Resolution rules (DISP)  the rules in the FCA handbook that set out ho w complaints are to be dealt with by firms and the ombudsman service  which 
stipulates that this guidance must be applied to all FSAVC complaints being raised now, 
that didnt fall within the initial scope of the review.
Thats not to say the guidance and bulletin arent relevant at all; they do still provide a 
useful guide, particularly when we consider complaints about mis-sold FSAVC cases 
where its been determined that the consumer wouldve joined their employers in-house 
defined contribution AVC scheme. However, in this case I consider departing from a strict 
interpretation of the guidance is necessary in order to provide Mr W with fair 
compensation.
I think its important to explain that when a consumer has lost out financially as a result of 
something the business has done wrong, Id generally expect the consumer to be put 
back into the position they would have been in, had the business not made the error. This 
is also the case when considering Mr Ws complaint.
The bulletin referenced above states that after establishing the fund value, considering 
causation and determining the relevant period for loss assessment, the calculation should 
mirror that required for the Pensions Review. The Pension Review Guidance has been 
updated since it was initially issued. The Finalised Guidance issued by the FCA in 2017 
and updated in March 2021  commonly referred to as FG17/9, states that:
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined 
benefit pension transfers ()
The standard approach to calculating redress
2. Where a firm or adviser has failed to give compliant and proper advice, or has 
committed some other breach of the relevant requirements, the basic objective of 
redress is to put the customer, so far as possible, into the position they 
would have been in if the non-compliant or unsuitable advice had not been 
given or the breach had not occurred {my emphasis}
So while Ive considered the above model guidance and bulletin when thinking about fair 
compensation, my main focus has been to put Mr W, as far as possible, in the position he 
would now be in, had he bought added years in 1992 instead of taking out the FSVAC 
plan; he shouldnt be placed in better position and equally, he shouldnt be worse off.
Use of GAR in calculating fund value for loss assessment
The model guidance and calculation tables contained within it arent useful when 
considering Added Years complaints. Both parties have referenced section 6.25 as the only 
part of the guidance that mentions FSAVCs which have a valuable guarantee of benefits in 
retirement.
6.25 Firms may wish to investigate whether there has in fact been no financial 
loss suffered despite the possible loss of employer matching contributions, 
subsidised benefits or lower level of charges in the in-house AVC 
arrangement.
6.25.1 If the investor has lost out on employer matching contributions or other 
subsidised benefits, it is almost certain that a loss will have occurred. 
However, an example of circumstances when a loss will not have occurred 
is where the investment performance of the FSAVC has exceeded that of 
the in- house AVC arrangement by more than the cumulative value of the lost employer contributions and any difference in charges. A further 
example might be where the FSAVC offers some kind of valuable 
guarantee of benefits in retirement {my emphasis}.
6.25.2 If a firm finds an investor for whom circumstances such as those in 
paragraph
6.25.1 apply they may conclude that no loss has been suffered
Wesleyan has argued that some kind of valuable guarantee of benefits in retirement would 
include a GAR. Like Wesleyan, I dont think when the guidance was written that it wouldve 
been envisaged that a GAR could provide such a valuable benefit but, as things stand 
today, GARs are considered very valuable, given how much annuity rates fallen over the 
years. In this case the GAR provides £7.016 per £100. So I do agree its a valuable benefit 
when compared with todays annuity rates. And I also agree with Wesleyans arguments 
that it is only logical that if a GAR can be used to exclude a case from the loss assessment 
process then a GAR can also be used in the loss assessment calculation. I think the reason 
GARs arent specifically included in the subsequent sections of the guidance, which set out 
how the fund value is determined for loss assessment, is most likely because the guidance 
was written with in-house AVCs in mind, where fund values and guarantees arent taken 
into consideration as the relevant comparison is between the charges of the FSAVC and 
the in-house AVC option.
Like Mr W, Im not aware of the use of GARs being mentioned in the initial pension 
review guidance. However, when discussing fund values, the pension review guidance 
does state that it isnt intended to cover all situations nor to exclude other elements, 
which may be appropriate in particular circumstances
So while there is nothing that specifically states that the value of a GAR should be 
included when determining the fund value for loss assessment, I dont think its 
unreasonable to do so, if its appropriate in the circumstances of the complaint.
In this case, Wesleyan has confirmed that the GAR is based on a single life and is 
guaranteed for 5 years. This isnt consistent with the benefits that wouldve been payable 
under the Added Years arrangement. So on the face of it, it doesnt seem reasonable to 
include the value of the GAR when determining the fund value for loss assessment. Ive 
asked Wesleyan if it provides a blended GAR or a GAR on another basis and it doesnt 
appear that it does. However, Im conscious that Wesleyan has confirmed that if the 
investor chooses to take their pension on another basis  so they dont make use of the 
GAR  the fund value is uplifted to reflect the value of the GAR.
This means that Mr W will benefit from the uplift in fund value, even if he opts not to utilise 
the GAR when he takes his benefits. For this reason, I dont agree with Mr Ws argument 
that Wesleyan is using the GAR in order to potentially deprive him of compensation.
Given the value this benefit adds to the fund, and as Wesleyan has said that the fund will 
be uplifted to reflect the value of the GAR, even if its not utilised, I dont think its 
unreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint for the value of the GAR to be 
included in the fund value.
How many added years should the calculation be based on?
Wesleyan has confirmed that, at the time of advice, Mr W was eligible to buy added years 
of 11 years and 35 days. This was the maximum he wouldve been able to contract for 
under the NHS Pension Scheme as this, alongside his expected scheme membership, 
wouldve taken him to the maximum of 40 years service.However, instead of purchasing added years in the NHS Pension Scheme, Mr W 
commenced two FSVAC plans. The plans started in May 1992, with Mr W contributing 
£120 pm gross, and September 1993, with an additional £80 pm gross contribution. From 
this point on Mr W continued to make total monthly contributions of £200 per month 
(gross) to these plans until 2002.
Wesleyan has confirmed that if Mr W had continued contributing to the FSAVC plan at the 
same rate, until the age of 60, his contributions wouldve actually purchased added years 
of 11 years and 126 days, which wouldve taken him over the maximum of 40 years 
service. In 2002, Mr W decided to start buying added years and he stopped contributing to 
his FSVAC plans. However, at this point Mr W was only able to contract to buy 6 years 
and 337 days. This was the maximum he was able to buy at that time, given the 9% of 
salary contribution limit that applied.
Wesleyan has based its loss assessment on the difference between these two amounts (11 
years 35 days minus 6 years 337 days), that being added years of 4 years and 63 days. 
The value of the 4 years 63 days has been calculated by Wesleyan to be £209,998.91.
Having thought about the approach Wesleyan has taken, I dont think it seems 
unreasonable as it does put Mr W back in the position he wouldve been in, had he 
contracted for the maximum number of years  11 years and 35 days - in 1992 (6 years 
337 days plus 4 years 63 days). However, although Im minded to say that the number of 
years Wesleyan has based its calculation doesnt seem unreasonable, it doesnt 
automatically follow that the calculation is fair. So Ive considered this further.
Is the calculation methodology fair?
In contracting to buy added years from 2002, Mr W wasnt only unable to purchase the full 
11 years and 35 days shortfall he had, he also had to contribute 9% of his salary, which 
was more than he wouldve needed to contribute had he purchased 11 years and 35 days 
added years in 1992.
Wesleyan has confirmed that in order to purchase 11 years and 35 days added years, 
from 1992, Mr W wouldve needed to contribute 8.655% of his salary through to age 60.
Wesleyans calculations show that this contribution rate of 8.655% represents 97.81% of 
the total contributions paid to FSAVC plans between 1992 and 2002.
From 2002 onwards, Mr W has been paying 9% of his salary to buy added years but this is 
0.345% more than he wouldve been paying, had he started added years in 1992. These 
over contributions need to be taken into consideration. And having reviewed the 
calculation, it does appear that Wesleyan has made an allowance for them.
At the time Wesleyan ran its calculation both funds had a combined value of £219,263.95 
(this has been uplifted to take account of the GAR). However, in determining the fund 
value for the loss assessment, Wesleyan has only used 97.8% of this combined value, 
that being £214,462.07. This additional £4,801.88 was excluded from the calculation to 
reflect the excess contributions Mr W paid between 1992 and 2002.
These additional contributions benefitted from tax relief when they were paid and the value 
of the fund itself has been uplifted to reflect the value of the GAR attached to the FSAVC 
plans. When Mr W takes the benefits of these plans, he will likely be entitled to tax free 
cash. So this doesnt seem an unreasonable way to deal with the over contributions held 
within the FSAVC plans. And although this scenario isnt specifically addressed in the 
pension review or model guidance, I am aware that under paragraph 1208 of the original pension review guidance  which explains how overpayments are dealt with during 
reinstatement - the percentage of the fund that relates to the overpayment is excluded 
from the reinstatement costs. So it does seem that what Wesleyan has done here is in the 
spirit of the guidance.
In terms of the excess contributions Mr W has paid since contracting to buy added years, I 
can see that the total value of the 0.345% extra hes been paying has been calculated to 
be worth £5,213.00, this included contributions that were yet to be made at the date of 
calculating but have since been paid. And these contributions have been brought up to 
date using bank base rates. This is how Id expect the over contributions, that fall outside 
of the FSAVC plan, to be dealt with and is consistent with how businesses dealt with over 
contributions during the pension review.
However, Mr W doesnt agree with the methodology used here as he believes Wesleyan 
is valuing benefits accrued, and contributions made, outside of the loss calculation 
period. The model guidance states that the period for loss assessment will end on the 
earlier of:
1) the 6th April after the investor stopped paying into the FSAVC policy, and
2) the date the investor started paying into the in-house AVC scheme
Mr W believes that the period of loss ends at June 2002 so Wesleyan should model the 
same contribution rate for both the "actual" and "notional" scenarios after this point. He 
says modelling a contribution rate of 8.655% for both the actual and notional scenarios after 
2002, as opposed to 9% in the actual scenario, would result in the net added years 
increasing from 4 years and 63 days to 4 years 160 days. This in turn increases the loss by 
£13,375.
However, excluding these additional added years from the calculation (the years the 
0.345% secured) would leave Mr W with a benefit equivalent of over 40 years service, a 
position that he couldnt ever have found himself in, had he taken added years initially. And 
the fact that Mr W has taken action to mitigate his loss by contracting to buy added years 
from 2002, needs to be taken into account. As Ive said above, the model guidance wasnt 
written with the intention that it would address every scenario that arises. And for the 
reasons explained, I dont believe strictly applying the guidance for the loss assessment 
period in this case is appropriate.
Mr W believes that Wesleyans methodology simply calculates the differential in the cost of 
deferring the purchase of added years. But I dont think this is an unreasonable approach. 
Im satisfied that this approach places Mr W in the position hed be in now but for 
Wesleyans error. Its ensuring he has a benefit equivalent of 11 years and 35 day added 
years. And that he has the benefit of any excess contributions.
I appreciate that the value of the added years the extra 0.345% contributions secured 
exceeds the value of those contributions. But giving Mr W the value of the added years 
puts him in a better position than he wouldve been in, had he not taken the FSAVC plans. 
Mr W doesnt agree with this approach. He believes by doing this, Wesleyan is using the 
value of his own contributions in the purchase of added years to offset the loss caused by 
the advice to purchase the FSAVC. But the methodology hes proposed would mean that 
he exceeded the number of added years he wouldve been permitted to purchase, had he 
joined the added years arrangement in 1992. I note from the submissions provided that 
Mr Ws actuaries do acknowledge that this approach is generous and that other 
approaches might be reasonable.To conclude, as Ive said my aim is for Mr W, as far as possible, to be put in the position 
he would be in now but for the businesss error. Its difficult to do this where its no longer 
possible to secure the missing added years within the NHS Pension Scheme. And I do 
acknowledge that there may be alternative ways to calculate the redress but I dont think 
Wesleyans method is unfair or means that Mr W has lost out as a result of the advice he 
received. So Im currently minded to say that Wesleyans calculation methodology is fair. 
However, given the time since the calculation was completed, and upon receiving 
confirmation of Mr Ws acceptance, I would expect Wesleyan to rerun the loss 
assessment, using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of my final decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Since issuing my provisional findings, both parties have provided further arguments and its 
come to light that Mr W has taken the benefits of his FSAVC plans. In doing so, he opted to 
take an annuity and utilised the GAR. 
Having considered the further submissions, I wrote to both parties to explain that I was 
minded to uphold the complaint in part. My letter explained that while I remained of the view 
that the calculation methodology Wesleyan had used wasnt unfair in terms of the added 
years, I thought Wesleyan needed to do more in terms of the excess contributions. Initially I 
thought that a charges only calculation should be run to compare the difference between the 
charges of the FSAVC and the in-house AVC. But after considering the comments provided, 
I issued a further letter, on 13 January 2022, explaining the revised redress. Any additional 
arguments that didnt relate to the excess contributions have been summarised below under 
final submissions and, where relevant, have been addressed in my findings. 
Letter dated 13 January 2022 confirming updated redress
Ive now had the opportunity to consider the additional arguments and Ive revisited what I 
consider to be fair redress in the circumstances of this complaint. I remain of the view that 
Mr Ws complaint should be partially upheld but my thoughts around how matters should be 
put right - in terms of the excess contributions - have changed slightly from the position set 
out in my above mentioned letter. So Im writing to set these out before issuing my final 
decision on this matter. 
Ive firstly considered Wesleyans comments regarding whether Mr W would have had the 
headroom to make additional contributions to the in-house AVC if hed also contracted to 
buy the maximum number of added years.
 
In my previous letter I said that I thought Mr W could have contributed a maximum of 9% of 
his salary to both in the in-house AVC and added years arrangements. Wesleyan doesnt 
believe this is necessarily the case. Its confirmed that Mr W wouldve been restricted under 
the in-house AVC arrangement to contributions of 8%. Its explained that normally the cap is 
more like 2% or 3% but as Mr W joined the scheme relatively late, he had a high cap. 
However, given there were restrictions on the added years maximum service which were 
designed to avoid a member exceeding Inland Revenue limits, Wesleyan considers it very 
unlikely that an individual would have been permitted to contribute at the maximum level to 
both added years and the in-house AVC. So, it considers that a charges only calculation on 
the excess contributions would overstate redress. As such, Wesleyans standard approach is 
not to assess a charges only loss on excess contributions that could not have been directed 
to added years.
 
I appreciate what Wesleyan is saying but I dont think its done enough here to show that 
Mr W definitely couldnt have directed these excess contributions to the in-house AVC. We 
know that he could have contributed up to 8% to the in-house AVC. But this figure was based on Mr W not having bought the maximum number of added years. Wesleyan has 
therefore concluded that this limit would have been reduced to zero, meaning he couldnt 
have directed anything to the in-house AVC. This may well have been the case but 
Wesleyan has made an assumption here, its not been able to provide evidence to support 
this. So, I dont know for sure that Mr W couldnt have redirected these contributions and for 
this reason, Im still minded to say that I think on balance Mr W had leeway to contribute up 
to 9% to both arrangements. 
I said in my letter that a charges only calculation would be an appropriate way to deal with 
the over contributions that Mr W has paid to his FSAVC plans as this would be in line with 
the FSAVC guidance. However, having reconsidered matters, I dont think strictly applying 
the guidance in the case of Mr Ws complaint is appropriate here. The guidance provides 
exactly that, guidance; it doesnt set rules that must be applied in all circumstances and so 
where appropriate, the guidance can be departed from. 
In the case of Mr W, hes taken his benefits and has benefitted from the GAR that was 
attached to his plans. So rather than calculating the difference in the charges between the 
FSAVC and the in-house AVC, I think instead a fairer and more accurate way to 
determine any loss Mr W has suffered by paying these excess contributions to the FSAVC 
plans, would be to compare the value of FSAVC plans with the notional value of the in-
house AVC plan. 
I did state in my previous letter that I thought Wesleyan could complete a calculation of 
this nature if it wished to consider whether Mr W has suffered a loss. However, I was 
previously of the view that if any loss was identified, then a charges only calculation would 
be required. However, as explained above, having thought about matters again, I dont 
think this second calculation  on a charges only basis  is necessary as it has the 
potential to place Mr W in a better position if the difference between the charges is greater 
than any loss identified when comparing the fund values. So if a loss is identified when 
comparing the FSAVC fund value with the notional value of the in-house AVC, then Mr W 
should receive redress based on the loss identified at this stage.
Therefore, Im minded to ask Wesleyan to run calculation comparing the value of the over 
contributions in the FSAVC plan (including any uplift provided by the GAR) and the 
notional value of the over contributions, had they been paid to the in house AVC scheme. 
This calculation should be run as at the date Mr W took his benefits and any loss identified 
should be bought up to date using 8% per year simple interest. 
What if a notional value cant be obtained for the in-house AVC scheme? 
Wesleyan thinks its unlikely it will be able to obtain a notional value for the in-house AVC 
option. However, it doesnt appear that it requested this information as yet. So this should 
be done. If it can show that its not been able to obtain a notional value then an 
appropriate benchmark, based on Mr Ws attitude to risk, should be used to model how 
the in-house AVC would have performed.
  
In the case of Mr W, both Wesleyan and Mr W are satisfied that he would have bought 
added years instead of directing all of his contributions to the in-house AVC plan. This 
suggests that hes a more cautious investor when it comes to his pension arrangements. 
So I think the calculation should be based on a 50/50 benchmark (50% FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index and 50% average rate from fixed rate bonds). 
 
What about the excess contributions Mr W has paid to the added years arrangement? I also said in my previous letter that a charges calculation should be run on the 0.345% 
extra Mr W has been paying for added years since 2002. However, this was an error. The 
way Wesleyan has already dealt with these contributions in its calculation is appropriate. 
So, other than to bring the loss on these over contributions up to date when it reruns its 
loss assessment using bank base rate, its not necessary for Wesleyan to take any further 
action with regards to these excess contributions. 
I hope the above clarifies my position with regards to the additional contributions. Both 
parties have raised additional points in response to my provisional decision and previous 
side letter and Ill be addressing these additional points in my final decisions.
Mr Ws final submissions  
Although Mr W didnt have anything further to add in respect of the updated redress for the 
excess contributions, he has previously provided additional points for consideration on other 
aspects of the complaint. In summary hes said that:
The GAR
The main argument by Wesleyan is that the use of a GAR is mentioned in the FSAs FSAVC 
Mis-Selling Review Guidance, and therefore can be used to mitigate its losses. But Mr Ws 
representative doesnt believe Wesleyan has always included the GAR in its calculations 
and its provided a statement from a former employee in support of this. Mr W is concerned 
that some Wesleyan customers are being treated differently from others. 
Wesleyan has now said that if the GAR isnt utilised, it still uplifts the plan value to reflect the 
GAR when the investor takes the benefits. However, Mr W has questioned if this is the case 
where a plan has been moved to another provider.
Mr W remains of the view that including the GAR in the loss assessment is unfair. Hes 
referenced what Ive said in my provisional findings about the guidance allowing a GAR to be 
used to exclude a case from the loss assessment process, and so, a GAR can also be used 
in the loss assessment calculation. However, Mr W says that if this argument was valid then 
it would also be valid to argue that investment performance can also be used in the loss 
assessment calculation. However, while paragraph 6.25 of the guidance does explicitly allow 
actual investment performance to be used to exclude a case from loss assessment, 
paragraph 6.8 does not allow the use of actual investment returns in the final loss 
assessment. In other words, the final loss assessment cannot always use all factors that can 
be used to exclude a case under paragraph 6.25 of the guidance. 
The provisional decision said that where the FSAVC plan has vested, the value placed on 
the plan for the purpose of an added years loss calculation would be the value of the annuity 
in payment and the loss assessment should compare the lost income stream from the 
occupational scheme to the lost income from the FSAVC. However, this is not true  
paragraph 6.23.2 of the Guidance says that The fund that is to be used for actual loss cases 
is the fund immediately prior to the purchase of benefits at the date of crystallisation. So for 
actual loss cases, where the FSAVC has vested, the actual amount of the annuity in 
payment or future income stream is not used in the loss assessment, and the value to be 
used is the fund value immediately prior to vesting.
The maximum benefit that was able to be purchasedMr W said that once the 40 year ceiling had been reached, he would still have had 
headroom to make contributions to the in house AVC for the balance of any premiums that 
took him over the 40 year threshold. So a loss calculation for the balance of the FSAVC 
premium would trigger a charges only loss calculation for that balance premium.
The contribution rates modelled 
The provisional decision said that if the actual scenario contribution rate was reduced from 
9% to 8.655% then excluding these additional added years from the calculation (the years 
the 0.345% secured) would leave Mr W with a benefit equivalent of over 40 years service. 
This isnt true  the notional scenario would still be modelling the 11y 35d added years to 
give 40 years maximum total service (so still allowed), and the actual scenario would be 
modelling just 6y 240d added years (instead of 6y 337d), which is still well within the 40 
years maximum service. In other words, both the actual and the notional scenarios would be 
within the 40 years maximum service limit.
The provisional decision does not address the fact that two different firms of consulting 
actuaries can make loss calculations using exactly the same data, and result in a £100,000+ 
difference in the compensation amount due to a customer. 
Mr W is concerned that Wesleyans actuary is adopting an alternative strategy, that it has 
confirmed it instigated and suggested to Wesleyan, potentially as a means of substantially 
mitigating Wesleyans financial losses. Mr W believes that this patently goes against the 
industry standards of excellence and treating customers fairly. 
Wesleyans final submissions
The GAR
Wesleyan says that the value of the plan is uplifted even if the Investor doesnt utilise the 
GAR. But it considers that even without such uplift, it is reasonable to make allowance in the 
loss calculation of the GAR. This is because it believes that the value attributed to the plan 
should be the value of the future income stream available from the plan. It doesnt consider 
the fact that the form of the benefits from the GAR is different to that offered by the 
occupational scheme is a reason for the GAR to be ignored. If the issue is that the Investor 
should not be made to receive benefits in a different form to the Added Years then it may be 
worth noting that most investors use defined contribution pots to purchase a non increasing 
pension (irrespective of whether a GAR is in place) because the pricing for inflation linked 
annuities is typically unfavourable. Therefore, in practice, where a valuable GAR exists 
Wesleyan would normally expect an investor to take it.
Wesleyan also said that the form of benefits from an FSAVC is fundamentally different to 
that from a defined benefit scheme and if anything the GAR, which would result in 
annuitisation mirrors the pension from a defined benefit scheme far better than full 
commutation or income drawdown. Importantly, as previously noted, where the FSAVC plan 
has vested, the value placed on the plan for the purpose of an added years loss calculation 
would be the value of the annuity in payment (calculated using the FG17/9 assumptions). 
This means that for an investor who has a GAR, once this option has been taken up, and 
assuming they take it, the value of the FSAVC plan would reflect it automatically. Therefore, 
in order to avoid a substantial step change in the value of the FSAVC plan benefits at the 
point of vesting, it is appropriate that the GAR is allowed for in prospective loss calculations.
Wesleyan does not agree with the premise that if the Investor has transferred out their plan 
then no allowance should be made for the GAR. This is because any such transfer would 
have been implemented on the back of subsequent financial advice and a separate claim should be made to that advisor in relation to the loss of the value offered by the GAR. 
Wesleyan considers it unreasonable and inconsistent with the principles of the pensions 
review for Wesleyan to be required to compensate an investor for losses incurred as a result 
of financial advice from a different firm.
In terms of whether there is an inconsistency in the treatment of investors, Wesleyan does 
not agree with the comments made by Mr Ws CMC. Its explained that there was a change 
in approach some time ago at which point it was determined that the GAR should be 
reflected in loss assessment. Subsequent to this decision, GARs have been reflected in all 
calculations in a consistent manner. 
The excess contributions
Wesleyan is pleased with the conclusion Ive reached that it is not appropriate to offer 
redress which would place the Investor in a better position than they would have been had 
they not taken the advice from Wesleyan.
Wesleyan noted that, in order to avoid infringement of overall Revenue limits on total 
pension, the NHS had a stated policy of imposing a restriction on the percentage of earnings 
allowed to be paid to the NHS money purchase AVC scheme. The caps applying reflected a 
member's service to date and their age as set out in the table below. Given these limits 
Wesleyan doesnt believe that it is strictly true to say that Mr W had leeway to contribute 9% 
of his salary to the AVC arrangements. He would have been restricted under the money 
purchase AVC arrangement to contributions of 8% (normally the cap is more like 2% or 3% 
but as Mr W joined the scheme relatively late he has a high cap).  However, more 
importantly, given that the restrictions on the Added Years maximum service were, like the 
money purchase AVCs, designed to avoid a member exceeding Inland Revenue limits, it 
considers it very unlikely that an individual would have been permitted to contribute at the 
maximum level to both Added Years and money purchase AVCs. So it consider that the 
approach outlined would overstate redress. As such its standard approach is not to assess a 
charges only loss on excess contributions that could not have been directed to Added Years 
(although Wesleyan will do this if the ombudsman wants it to).
 
The calculation being bought up to date
Wesleyan also considers that its unfair its being asked to update the main part of the 
calculation (the Added Years part) for current market conditions as the redress will have 
increased since the original calculation date - in part due to the change to redress 
guidance introduced in March 2021. The ombudsman has effectively concluded that the 
approach Wesleyan used was correct and normally it wouldnt go back and recalculate 
loss unless there was an error. Here there is a judgement about the "excess contributions" 
but that doesn't affect the added years calculation, and it's not really an error in any event. 
So Wesleyan is concerned this will set a precedent and it doesnt want to be in a position  
where recalculation on a more generous basis is required just because the CMC has 
raised what turned out to be an invalid argument.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since issuing my provisional decision and side letters, both parties have provided additional 
submissions and having carefully considered these, I remain of the view that the complaint 
should be upheld in part. In reaching my decision, Ive taken account of the relevant rules 
and guidance issued by the regulator.Its important to first explain that I will only be making a finding to matters that directly impact 
Mr Ws complaint. So I wont be addressing any concerns raised by the parties regarding 
consumers that have transferred their FSAVCs away from Wesleyan. Nor will I be making a 
final determination regarding the inclusion of the GAR on prospective loss cases. 
Use of GAR in calculating fund value for added years loss assessment
In both my provisional decision and my first side letter, I explained why I didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Wesleyan to include the value of the GAR when determining the fund value 
for an added years loss assessment. This was because Wesleyan had confirmed that the 
value of the plan is uplifted to reflect the value of the GAR, even if the pension is taken on a 
different basis. 
Mr W is concerned that Wesleyan has not been applying this approach consistently. But 
Wesleyan has confirmed that this is a fairly recent change in policy and since the change, 
its been applying the approach consistently. 
I can only comment on the cases Ive seen and so far, the approach taken by Wesleyan 
has been consistent. But in any event, I have previously clarified that if the investor didnt 
receive the uplifted value  or if they didnt make use of the GAR  then Id likely conclude 
that it wouldnt be reasonable to take the value of the GAR into account when determining 
the fund value for an added years loss assessment. Wesleyan has provided further 
comments to dispute this stance but as Ive said above, I dont need to make a final 
determination on this particular aspect as Mr W has now taken his benefits and utilised 
the GAR. So any arguments raised regarding prospective loss cases, where the loss is 
expected to be suffered at some point in the future and the basis on which the benefits 
are taken is not yet known, are not relevant to Mr Ws case. 
In the case of Mr W, its recently been confirmed that hes taken his benefits. So, although 
my thoughts on the use of the GAR havent changed, I dont need to make a finding on 
this.
Mr W has confirmed that when he took his benefits he took an annuity and made use of the 
GAR. So, in these circumstances, its appropriate that Wesleyan takes the value of the GAR 
into account when determining the value for loss assessment.  
In terms of the GAR, what still remains in dispute is how the fund value for loss assessment 
is calculated. So Ive considered this aspect further. 
The FSAVC guidance states:
6.23.2 The fund that is to be used for actual loss cases is the fund immediately prior
to the purchase of benefits at the date of crystallisation and before any refund
of surplus that may have been made to the investor
However, this isnt how Wesleyan has calculated the fund value that its used in Mr Ws 
added years calculation. Wesleyan has explained that where the FSAVC plan has vested, as 
Mr Ws has, the value it places on the plan for the purpose of an added years loss 
calculation is the value of the annuity in payment (calculated using the FG17/9 
assumptions). 
Ive thought carefully about whether what Wesleyan has done here is fair. In doing so, Ive 
also taken account of FSAVC Review Bulletin 3. This was issued in January 2001 and 
provided additional guidance for defined benefit loss assessment cases. Of relevance here is that, after establishing the fund value for loss assessment, the guidance says that the 
calculation should follow the Pension Review Guidance. The bulletin doesnt specifically 
state that the fund value should be calculated as per the guidance in 6.23.2, although I think 
it could be argued that this is implied. However, this is only guidance, which a firm may opt 
not to follow if it doesnt consider its appropriate in the circumstances of the complaint. 
In this case, Mr Ws case didnt fall within the review for which the guidance was produced. 
And I dont think that by following a different approach  the one set out in FG17/9 - 
Wesleyan is being unfair. Its essentially comparing the value of the pension Mr W is 
receiving against what he would have received from the added years arrangement. This is 
how a fund value for loss assessment would be determined for a vested personal pension 
plan when its been determined that the consumer has lost out on defined benefits within an 
occupational pension scheme (OPS). I dont think its unreasonable to value the annuity 
provided by the FSAVC in the same way. 
I appreciate that the Actuaries representing the parties involved in this complaint have 
reached substantially different amounts in terms of the loss suffered by Mr W. This is in the 
main due the inclusion of the GAR in Wesleyans calculation. As explained above, Mr W has 
benefited from the GAR and so its appropriate that this is taken into consideration when 
calculating any loss he may have suffered. 
Calculation methodology
Mr W says that Wesleyans methodology simply calculates the difference in the cost of
deferring the purchase of added years. And he believes Wesleyan is offsetting losses by 
gains, outside the loss calculation period, to reduce its liability. 
The method Mr W has suggested, essentially disregards the added years bought by the 
0.345% excess contributions Mr W paid to the added years arrangement. But Mr W will 
receive the benefit equivalent 6 years and 337 days from his OPS when he takes his OPS 
benefits, if he hasnt done so already. So these added years need to be factored into the 
redress correctly. Mr Ws method suggests modelling a lower contribution rate in the actual 
scenario than the rate Mr W actually paid, 8.655% instead of the 9%. I appreciate that 
technically anything after 2002 is outside of the period for loss assessment if you apply the 
FSAVC guidance. But I explained in my provisional findings why I didnt think it was 
appropriate to apply the guidance in Mr Ws case and my thoughts on that havent changed. 
Mr W says that his method doesnt mean that his benefits will exceed the 40 year service 
cap that he has on his OPS scheme. But I think it does. The shortfall he has, or had, in his 
OPS was 11 years 35 days. Hes due to receive 6 years 337 days as a result of the added 
years he purchased. This amount wont change, even if they are excluded from the 
calculation. So, Mr W only requires a further 4 years and 63 days to top this up to 11 years 
35 days. I accept that if Mr Ws method is used then the calculation wont necessarily show 
that he has exceeded the 40 year service cap. But as he will receive this extra service 
bought by the 0.345%, in reality  the actual scenario - he will exceed it by 97 days. 
I remain of the view that calculating the difference between the cost of Mr W buying added 
years in 1992 and when he actually bought them in 2002 is not unreasonable. By refunding 
the excess contributions Mr W paid to the added years arrangement, Mr W hasnt paid any 
more than he would have paid for the same number of added years in 1992. 
I do acknowledge that not all actuaries use the same methodology. So there is likely to be 
variations in the loss identified by these different methods. Mr Ws actuary has 
acknowledged that its approach is generous. However, this doesnt mean that Wesleyans 
methodology is unfair or that Wesleyan isnt treating customers unfairly. Wesleyan is required to put Mr W back in the position hed be in now but for the unsuitable advice and Im 
satisfied that the methodology its used in its calculation does this. Its ensuring Mr W has a 
benefit equivalent of 11 years and 35 days added years and that he hasnt paid more to 
have this. So Im not asking Wesleyan to do any more in this regard. 
Excess contributions and the headroom check
In my provisional decision I set out how I thought Wesleyan should treat the excess 
contributions Mr W had paid to both the FSAVC plan and to the added years arrangement. 
Both parties subsequently provided further submissions regarding this so I reconsidered this 
aspect, in light of the new submissions. I set out a revised calculation method for the excess 
contributions in my letter dated 13 January 2022. 
Neither party have disagreed with the methodology so I see no reason to depart from what 
was set out in my letter. Wesleyan has raised concerns that Mr W may not have had the 
headroom to make additional contributions to the in-house AVC. But as explained in my 
letter, I dont think its done enough to show that he definitely couldnt have done. So 
I remain of the view that a calculation should be completed. 
In summary, in terms of the excess contributions I think Wesleyan should run a calculation 
comparing the value of the excess contributions in the FSAVC plan (including any uplift 
provided by the GAR) with the notional value of the excess contributions, had they been paid 
to the in house AVC scheme. This calculation should be run as at the date Mr W took his 
benefits and any loss identified should be bought up to date using 8% per year simple 
interest. 
If Wesleyan can demonstrate that its not possible to obtain a notional value then an 
appropriate benchmark, based on Mr W attitude to risk  presumed to be cautious to low 
risk - should be used to model how the in-house AVC would have performed. 
  
In term of the 0.345% extra Mr W has been paying for added years since 2002, Im 
satisfied the way Wesleyan has already dealt with these contributions in its calculation is 
appropriate. So, other than to bring the loss on these over contributions up to date using 
bank base rate, its not necessary for Wesleyan to take any further action with regards to 
these excess contributions. 
Bringing the calculation up to date
In my provisional decision and subsequent letters I said that I was minded to ask Wesleyan 
to bring the added years calculation up to date, using the most recent assumptions. 
Wesleyan thinks this is unfair as the redress will have increased since the original calculation 
date. And it doesnt want to be a in a position where recalculation is required where the CMC 
has raised an invalid argument.
I think its important to explain that, even if represented by a CMC, all consumers have the 
right to refer their complaint to this service, this includes where a complaint has been upheld 
but there are concerns about the way in which a firm has proposed to settle matters. In this 
case, while Ive not upheld the concerns the Mr W and his CMC raised about the added 
years calculation, I dont think it means that Mr W should be penalised for querying why 
Wesleyans redress differed so much to his own actuarys calculations. Wesleyans Actuary 
has explained that it only became aware that some of the FSAVC with profits plans had a 
GAR in mid-2017 and so it was only after this point that GAR were included in its 
calculations. So, given the substantial change in calculations issued pre and post this point, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr W  via his CMC - to raise these concerns. The pension review guidance states that calculations are only valid for three months and 
generally when an offer hasnt been accepted in this time frame, the business has always 
been required to update its calculation to reflect the most recent FCA assumptions. In the 
past, my understanding is that this could have gone either way, in some instances it would 
reduce the redress due; it didnt always mean the redress amount would increase. 
However, the FCA updated its redress assumptions in March 2021 to take account of 
changes in the way the Retail Prices Index inflation will be calculated after 2030 and the 
impact this will have on the Consumer Prices Index inflation assumptions. So Wesleyan is 
concerned that recalculation using the latest assumptions will be more generous to Mr W. 
However, it doesnt feel fair not to update the calculation where we know Mr W is likely to be 
worse off as a result. Ultimately, Wesleyan has admitted that it mis-sold Mr Ws FSAVC 
plans and so it needs to ensure that Mr W is not worse off as a result of its negligent advice. 
Im conscious that Wesleyan, in order to limit its liability for any loss Mr W had suffered, 
could have arranged to make a payment to him on completion of its calculation; it didnt have 
to wait until the complaint with our service had been resolved before doing so. Any payments 
made would have been taken into consideration when ultimately deciding what Wesleyan 
needs to do to put matters right. 
Putting things right
Although Ive determined that Wesleyans added years calculation methodology is fair, given 
the time since the calculation was completed, and upon receiving confirmation of Mr Ws 
acceptance, I direct Wesleyan to rerun the loss assessment, using the most recent financial 
assumptions, at the date of my final decision. 
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Wesleyan receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Wesleyan to pay Mr W.
I also direct Wesleyan to complete a calculation, comparing the value of the excess 
contributions Mr W paid to his FSAVCs, with the notional value of these contributions if 
theyd been paid to the in-house AVC arrangement.  This calculation should be run at the 
date Mr W took his FSAVC plan benefits. If the value of the in-house AVC is greater, Mr W 
should be compensated according, with any loss being bought up to date using 8% simple 
interest to the date of settlement. If a notional value cant be obtained, Wesleyan should use 
the appropriate benchmark, as explained above. 
Wesleyan has already calculated the value of the excess contributions Mr W paid to his 
added years arrangement. This value should be bought up to date using bank base rate. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and ask Wesleyan Assurance Society to pay Mr W the 
compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman