DRN-3712834
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way Legal and General Assurance Society Limited handled his 
claim and their decision to decline it. 
What happened
Mr M had income protection insurance. His policy was underwritten by L&G and would pay a 
benefit if he was unable to work due to an illness. 
In May 2020 Mr M became absent from work as he was suffering with symptoms of anxiety 
and depression. So he submitted a claim at the end of September. In November L&G 
instructed a telephone assessment which took place between Mr M and their rehabilitation 
consultant.  Following this assessment, L&G declined Mr Ms claim. They said this was on 
the basis his absence was due to a combination of personal issues and workplace stressors, 
rather than a clinical condition.
 
Mr M appealed and provided evidence from his treating doctor. This led to L&G reviewing 
the claim again and instructing an Independent Medical Examination in April 2021 as they 
said there was conflicting opinions. The IME also concluded Mr M was absent from work due 
to personal issues rather than a medical condition. So L&G maintained the claim was still 
declined. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened and partially upheld the complaint. He agreed 
with L&G that there wasnt enough evidence to show Mr M met the definition of incapacity - 
so it was fair to decline the claim. But he said L&G should award £150 to recognise the 
upset it caused Mr M, who feels his claim wasnt fully considered because they didnt obtain 
his medical records from his GP.
Mr M didnt respond to the view. L&G disagreed with the compensation award. In summary 
they said: 
Clinicians working both within the NHS and private practice will regularly assess 
individuals without access to full medical records
Numerous IMEs, doctors etc give opinions without full medical evidence. They take 
appropriate history, assess presentation and determine this need on a case by case 
basis.
It is arguably excessive to routinely request GP records 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they shouldnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
I think it was fair for L&G to rely on the April 2021 opinion of the consultant psychologist and 
maintain their decision to decline to claim because Mr M didnt meet the definition of 
incapacity. 
Although Mr M also doesnt meet the definition prior to this date, I dont think L&G acted 
fairly when they initially declined the claim in December 2020. Ill explain why. 
Part of Mr Ms complaint is that he gave L&G permission to contact his GP surgery, 
but this wasnt done. And he feels his claim was declined on the basis of one 
telephone assessment. Its not in dispute that initially, L&G solely relied on the 
assessment from their rehabilitation consultant before declining Mr Ms claim. So I 
need to consider if this was reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
In section 2.4 of Mr Ms members statement he confirmed he has suffered from 
depression in the past. He also said he was on medication and was receiving regular 
treatment at a wellbeing centre since July 2020. This was all also confirmed during 
his assessment with the rehab consultant - in addition to him confirming he has 
regular appointments with his GP who has signed him off. 
Based on the above, I think it was unreasonable for L&G to not conduct further 
investigation before declining the claim - this could include seeing what Mr Ms 
treating doctors had to say about his condition.  
I agree with L&G points about medical professionals conducting assessments and 
giving opinions without access to full medical records. But my role is to decide if L&G 
handled Mr Ms claim fairly. And in the circumstances of this particular claim I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for L&G to request further medical evidence, before they 
initially declined the claim. 
I appreciate L&Gs point about it being excessive to routinely request GP records on 
every claim. But as above, I am just looking at what I think wouldve been fairest in 
the circumstances of Mr Ms claim. As hed suffered from depression in the past, was 
receiving therapy and medication through his GP, and wellbeing therapy, I think L&G 
shouldve requested further medical evidence before they declined the claim in the 
first instance.
I agree with our investigator that L&Gs failure to investigate Mr Ms condition beyond one 
telephone consultation caused him upset at an already difficult time. 
Putting things right
Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint in relation to the handling of his claim and direct 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to put things right by paying Mr M £150 
compensation for the upset caused when they first declined the claim after only the 
telephone assessment.  
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint against Legal and General Assurance Society and direct 
them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Georgina GillOmbudsman