DRN-3978898
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr N complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) has declined a 
claim on their motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs L and Mr Ns vehicle wouldnt start so they called their breakdown assistance. The 
breakdown assistance couldnt get the vehicle started either and said there was an issue 
with the fuses. They said flooding had caused electrical faults to occur. 
So, Mrs L and Mr N submitted a flood damage claim to Admiral, their motor insurance 
provider. Admiral declined the claim because it said the electrical fault had been caused by 
water ingress and not flooding. It said that even though there was evidence of flooding in the 
area at that time, there was no evidence that this vehicle had been subjected to flood 
damage. It said water ingress was not an insurable event. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs L and Mr N brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Admiral had acted fairly 
and in line with the policy terms. 
Mrs L and Mr N didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Admiral has declined this claim because it says there hasnt been an insurable event. I need 
to decide if it has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mrs L and Mr Ns policy covers accidental damage. Its up to Mrs L and Mr N to submit a 
valid claim. Its up to Admiral to consider this claim based on the evidence provided and act 
accordingly within the parameters of the policy terms and conditions. 
The report provided by the breakdown assistance company says, flooding has caused 
electrical faults to occur.  Mrs L and Mr N have also provided a report from a garage that 
says, found the car to have water flood damage to the ECU and fuse box. The garage also 
indicated that further investigation was required to determine flood damage elsewhere. 
Mrs L and Mr N say that when they called Admiral, Admiral said it was going to write off the 
car, and it placed them in car hire. So, Ive looked through the notes from Admirals file and 
Ive listened to a recording of this call. I can see that Admiral did say the vehicle was a total 
loss. But right from the beginning there was a question raised about whether the water in the 
fuse box was caused by heavy rain that had ingressed or entered the fuse box, or whether 
the car had been involved in a flood. A note from 19 August 2022 says water was found in 
the fuse box, but no water entered the body of the car. Having listened to the call where Mrs 
L reported the problem to Admiral, Mrs L confirmed that there is no internal water damage in 
the vehicle at all. She said, the car didnt flood itself and she said, the mats were not wet. 
On 21 August 2022 a question was raised about the validity of the claim. A handler says that 
the vehicle didnt drive through flood water, but that the incident had happened whilst parked 
at Mrs L and Mr Ns home. 
The case is then passed to flood investigations. Here Admiral says no water was found in 
the vehicle, and theres no record of the vehicle being driven through a flood. Investigations 
speak to Mrs L. She says the whole street where she lived was flooded. The notes also say 
that the vehicle hasnt driven through a flood, and that water was gotten into the fuse box.  
I think its clear there was a flood in the area. The photographs provided show water 
encroaching on peoples property via their gateways, and cars in the pictures look to have 
water settled up to the bottom of the door sills or covering one third of their wheel. The water 
causing the issue in Mrs L and Mr Ns car, was found in the fuse box. The fuse box on this 
car is either in the passenger side footwell, just under the glovebox, or in the engine bay, just 
under the windscreen on the drivers side. 
Its clear water in the fuse box was causing the issue. It either got in there after a very heavy 
rainfall, or the vehicle was submerged in a flood. However, if this vehicle had been 
submerged in a flood, I would expect to see evidence of extensive water damage inside the 
vehicle. If the car was submerged in a flood where water got into the fuse box under the 
glovebox, I would expect to see cars in the photographs with water at least halfway up their 
doors. If Mrs L and Mr Ns vehicle had been submerged, I wouldve expected to see a report 
of car seats and carpets having to be removed and replaced. If the water was in the fuse box 
under the windscreen, I wouldve expected to see extensive water markings around the 
engine bay, and extensive damage around the dash and vehicle electrics. From looking at 
the file, there is no evidence of any of this. 
I can see why Mrs L and Mr N think this is an insurable event. Both the breakdown agent, 
and the garage have used the word flood in their reports. And in certain circumstances 
flooding is covered by this policy. But the word flood or flooding is used in the motor 
industry to describe when a part is incapacitated because water or fluid has filled or flooded 
the part. For example, if you try to start your car and it doesnt start but excess fuel enters 
the engine, a motor technician would say the engine is flooded. Its the same in this 
context. Yes, there was a local flood in the area, but the car wasnt actually damaged by 
local flooding or rising water. As there is no evidence of this type of flood damage to any 
other part of the vehicle, I think its more likely than not there was very heavy rainfall as 
documented, and water has somehow found its way into the fuse box from the top down as 
opposed to the bottom up. 
This isnt deemed flood damage that is an insurable event. Water ingress or water that 
enters the vehicle from the top down is a mechanical or vehicle failure, not accidental 
damage covered by a motor insurance policy. Theres not enough evidence here to suggest 
that a flood caused the failure here.
So, based on the evidence provided by both parties, this isnt a claim that the motor 
insurance policy covers. Because of this Im confident that Admiral was correct to decline 
this claim. I therefore wont be asking Admiral to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs L and Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman