DRN-3414591
The complaint
Mr B has complained about AWP P&C SA. He isnt happy about the way it dealt with a 
claim under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr B had a home emergency policy with AWP and made a claim after a leak from his 
bathroom at his home address. When he called to make a claim under his policy he was told 
to call back a while later or to call his own emergency plumber as AWP couldnt attend at 
that point in time. So, Mr B called an emergency plumber who attended and fixed the leak. 
He replaced the toilet as the leak was from the toilet cistern.  
But when Mr B looked to recover his costs from AWP it declined the claim. It said that Mr B 
didnt contact it before making good the damage and undertaking the emergency repair. As 
Mr B wasnt happy about this he complained to AWP and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and upheld his complaint. This was because she 
asked AWP to provide information about Mr Bs complaint and about the claim, but it didnt 
respond. And as AWP didnt respond the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
AWP hasnt responded to the various requests for information made by our investigator and 
her view upholding this complaint. So, Ive had to consider the complaint on the limited 
information I have before me.
Mr B has been very clear that his wife contacted AWP after he had an emergency at his 
home address in the early hours of the morning. He has been consistent in his account that 
contact was made with AWP about the emergency and he was advised to call back or he 
would have to make contact with his own plumber. Mr B has provided the numbers he called 
AWP from but as AWP havent responded to this service it hasnt been possible to verify 
this. 
It is clear that Mr B faced a stressful time at the time of the leak as water came through his 
electrics. And I think it is likely he would have looked to make a claim under the home 
emergency policy he held at that point in time as that is exactly why he took the policy out. 
Given the lack of response from AWP and Mr Bs clear account I think, on balance, that Mr 
Bs wife called AWP at the time of the emergency. And as it should have attended his 
property in line with the policy I think it should cover the subsequent costs incurred. Indeed, 
given that this is the kind of situation that his policy covered I dont think AWP has been 
prejudiced in any event as it would ordinarily turn out in circumstances like this. 
Finally, although I cant be sure whether AWP would have undertaken all the repairs Mr Bs 
plumber undertook I think it seems likely given the leak was from the cistern that it would 
have. So, I think it is only fair, in the particular circumstances of this case, for it to pay the full 
costs incurred (£784.40), plus 8% simple interest for the time Mr B has been without the 
money he paid out.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA 
to pay Mr B £784.40, plus 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman