DRN-2901435
The complaint
Mr B complains that the advice he received from Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited, to transfer his deferred defined benefit pension into a section 32 buyout plan was 
unsuitable.
Mr B also complains that the redress calculation carried out by Royal London, as part of the 
industry-wide pensions review, used incorrect assumptions to calculate his loss.
To put matters right Mr B wants Royal London to recalculate the redress he is due in line 
with the regulatory guidance set out in FG17/9.
Mr B is represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
I understand that in early 1992, Mr B was advised to transfer his deferred defined benefit 
pension to a with-profits section 32 buyout plan. The transfer value was around £4,600. (I 
note that Mr B was advised by the Co-operative Insurance Society Limited in 1992. As it is 
now part of Royal London, for simplicity I have referred to Royal London throughout this 
decision.) 
In 2000 this advice was reviewed by Royal London as part of the industry-wide pensions 
review, which firms were required to carry out on personal pension plans sold between 29 
April 1988 and 30 June 1994. Mr B was offered redress as part of this review in full and final 
settlement. He accepted the redress offered of a 19.89% increase in the value of his plan on 
6 June 2001. At the time, Royal London explained that this offer had been calculated in-line 
with the regulators pensions review guidance. 
In July 2020, Mr Bs representative complained to Royal London on his behalf. It said Mr B 
had lost out financially as a result of the advice to transfer his deferred defined benefit 
pension into a section 32 buyout plan. It said the redress he had been offered to 
compensate him for the unsuitable advice had not been calculated correctly. And it said it 
wanted the redress to be re-calculated in line with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
guidance FG17/9.
Royal London didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It noted that it had previously accepted that 
the advice to transfer Mr Bs deferred defined benefit pension into a section 32 buyout plan 
was unsuitable and had carried out a redress calculation for Mr B in line with the regulators 
requirements at that time. It noted Mr B had accepted the redress it had offered in full and 
final settlement in 2001. In view of this, it said it wasnt prepared to review the outcome it had 
already reached.
Mr Bs representative did not accept Royal Londons decision and referred the matter to this 
service.
It said that the redress paid had not put Mr B into the position he would otherwise have been 
in, but for the unsuitable advice. In particular, it said:
- there was no evidence that Royal London had investigated whether it was possible for Mr B 
to be reinstated into the occupational pension scheme; and
- Royal London had used an annual management fee of 0.2% per year, and a policy fee of 
zero in its redress calculations. It said these values were too low and had resulted in the 
value of the section 32 plan being overstated in the redress calculations.
It said that, as it felt Royal London had failed to carry out the redress calculation in 
accordance with the regulatory guidance for the pensions review, it should now be required 
to re-work the redress calculation using the methodology published by the FCA, FG17/9.
Our investigator said that, having carefully considered Mr Bs complaint, they didnt think 
Royal London had acted incorrectly in this matter. 
They noted that it was not in dispute that the advice Mr B had received to transfer his 
deferred defined benefit pension to a personal pension was unsuitable. As this was the case, 
they said they hadnt considered this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
With regard to Mr Bs complaint that the redress calculation had not been carried out in 
accordance with the regulatory guidance, they explained that the pension review was 
designed to be a one-off exercise in order to provide finality to both consumers and 
businesses. It was intended to rectify widespread pension mis-selling and to put consumers 
as close as possible to the position they would be in if they hadnt received unsuitable 
advice.
They explained that the methodology for redress calculations was set by the regulator. The 
assumptions used in the calculations were based on what the regulator thought was fair at 
the time and the assumptions businesses were required to use were regularly reviewed. 
Our investigator said that, having reviewed the redress calculation carried out in 2000, it 
appeared to have been carried out correctly. They explained, however, that this service does 
not have the facility to check redress calculations and said that if Mr B still remained of the 
view that the redress calculation had not been carried out correctly he could choose to 
instruct (and pay for) an actuarial review. 
The investigator also noted that Royal London had confirmed to this service that Mr Bs 
former occupational pension scheme did not allow reinstatement. It had therefore 
compensated Mr B by increasing the value of his section 32 plan.
Having considered this complaint our investigator said they didnt think Royal London 
needed to re-work its redress calculation for Mr B in line with FG17/9.
Mr Bs representative did not accept our investigators view. It reiterated that it felt Royal 
London had not carried out the pensions review calculation for Mr B in line with the 
regulatory guidance. In particular it said:
the position "something was done in the past, therefore it was done correctly" is not a 
position that is logical, fair or reasonable. As we have explained, the FCA's position is that, if 
a firm did not review the advice in line with the applicable regulatory standards, then it is the 
FG17/9 guidance that should be used "to determine appropriate redress".
We have explained how the review was not carried out in line with the applicable regulatory 
standards.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
suitability of advice
When the review of Mr Bs section 32 buyout plan was carried out as part of the pensions 
review, a calculation was carried out to establish whether Mr B had been financially 
disadvantaged as a result of transferring his deferred benefits to the section 32 plan.
Redress calculations were only carried out if the sale of the personal pension plan was found 
not to be compliant, or the business had conceded compliance (usually because it was not 
able to demonstrate from its records that the sale was compliant).
If the sale had been found to be compliant by Royal London it wouldnt have carried out a 
redress calculation.
As this is the case, although I appreciate the points Mr Bs representative has made about 
the advice he received to transfer his deferred benefits, I dont think it is necessary to re-
consider the suitability of the advice he received in 1992.
redress calculation
Mr Bs representative says that the redress calculation carried out by Royal London in 
2000/1 was flawed as:
 there is no evidence that an enquiry was made into whether reinstatement into the 
occupational scheme was possible Assumptions for Annual Management Charge of 0.2% 
per annum and Policy Fee of 0% per annum were used in the calculation. These 
assumptions were too low. The value of the personal pension was therefore overstated.
Accordingly, we request on behalf of Mr B that Royal London is directed to carry out a new 
calculation according to the FCAs current guidance, in order to determine appropriate 
redress.
As Mr Bs representative is aware, the pensions review was designed to be a once and for 
all process, based on what the regulator at the time considered to be a fair methodology, 
using reasonable assumptions for future growth rates of both the pension policy, and where 
appropriate, augmentation of policy funds.
The review was designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a business such as Royal 
London was able to provide redress, for instances of mis-selling if the customer had suffered 
a loss, but also so that it knew that it wouldnt have additional unknown liabilities in the 
future.
This was important for the stability of the industry and consumer confidence in financial 
services more generally. But it was also designed to reassure consumers such as Mr B that 
the error had been recognised and, if necessary, addressed at that point in time  as Ive 
said above, using what were considered to be reasonable assumptions - without the need to 
revisit the matter many years later.(Some businesses did offer a guarantee to match the benefits at retirement rather than 
undertake a redress calculation, but the more common  and still acceptable  method of 
resolving the matter was either by reinstatement or paying an augmentation sum if the 
calculations showed a financial loss.)
The methodology businesses were required to use contained a number of assumptions. The 
most notable of which was the expected growth rate of the pension funds to produce the 
required benefits at retirement. Unfortunately, these projected growth rates havent been 
borne out in reality. Likewise, the low interest rate environment from 2008/09 onwards has 
resulted in the cost of annuities rising significantly. This means that, for many people, their 
pension funds at retirement arent sufficient to reproduce the lost scheme benefits.
Mr Bs representative says Royal London did not carry out the review correctly. It says that 
there is no evidence that an enquiry was made into whether reinstatement into the 
occupational scheme was possible. 
It is not clear to me why Mr Bs representative believes this to be the case, as the letter 
Royal London sent to Mr B, dated 11 October 2000, setting out its offer of redress said:
We are informed that your previous pension scheme is not prepared to consider 
reinstatement of the benefits into their scheme.
In view of this I am satisfied that Royal London did investigate whether it would be possible 
for Mr Bs benefits to be reinstated in 2000.
Mr Bs representative also says that the annual management charge used in the redress 
calculation for Mr B was too low and that no allowance was made for an annual policy fee. 
But, as Mr Bs representative is aware, Royal London has confirmed that the methodology 
and assumptions it used when it carried out the redress calculation were in line with the 
regulatory guidance at that time. 
As this is the case, and in the absence of anything from Mr Bs representative to show that 
the assumptions used were not in line with the regulatory guidance at that time, I cannot 
reasonably find that Royal London acted incorrectly or failed to carry out the redress 
calculation in line with the regulatory guidance on pensions review redress calculations. 
I also note that the FG17/9 guidance, that Mr Bs representative has referred to was 
intended to be used for redress calculations in complaints about occupational pension 
scheme transfers received after 3 August 2016, or for complaints received before that date 
but which hadnt been settled in full and final settlement. It can also be used for complaints 
about advice that had been reviewed during the pensions review period, if the business 
hadnt followed the regulatory guidelines or the particular circumstances of the case werent 
addressed by those standards, but I dont think that applies here.
Having reviewed the redress calculations carried out by Royal London for Mr Bs section 32 
buyout plan, I cant see any errors in the assumptions or data used. I also note the pensions 
review was monitored by the industry regulator at that time to ensure that the review was 
carried out correctly and that redress calculations were made in line with the regulatory 
guidance. 
In view of this, and in the absence of anything to show that incorrect assumptions were 
used, I am satisfied that the redress calculation for Mr B was carried out in accordance with 
the regulatory guidance. As this is the case, I dont think Royal London needs to re-work its 
redress calculations for Mr B in-line with FG17/9.However, if Mr B or his representative still thinks that incorrect assumptions were used, or 
the basis of the calculation was faulty for some other reason, its open to him to demonstrate 
why and, if he deems it necessary, commission a rerun of the calculation.
But I do also need to explain that, even if errors were proved, this wouldnt necessarily result 
in the outcome sought by Mr B to require Royal London to re-work the calculation using the 
FG17/9 guidance.
If we were satisfied that Royal London had undertaken the calculation in good faith, but that 
minor errors had been made, its likely that we would simply require it to rerun the calculation 
using the correct information, but also the same methodology and key assumptions 
(including growth) which existed when the redress calculation was carried out in 2000/1.
My final decision
My final decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman