DRN-3975913
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the valuation Zurich Insurance PLC paid when he made a claim 
under his car insurance policy. Mr B is also unhappy with the delay he says Zurich caused. 
All reference to the underwriter Zurich in my decision includes its agents who have acted on 
its behalf in the administration of the policy and handling the claim.
What happened
In June 2022 Mr B made a claim for the theft of his car to Zurich via his broker. He said that 
in April 2022 hed left his car with a mechanic with new car parts to carry out repairs. In June 
2022 he reported the theft to the police as the mechanic and his car had disappeared. 
The police marked the car as stolen as part of its investigation. 
Zurich said it would need to investigate the claim. An engineer provided a total loss report for 
Mr Bs car. The engineer noted that Mr Bs car had previously been written off for non- 
structural damage. So the engineer made a deduction of 20% to reflect this. However, the 
valuation was still below the motor valuation guide the engineer used to decide a settlement 
sum. 
Zurich didnt offer Mr B a settlement at this stage. 
In July 2022 - a month after Mr B reported the theft to Zurich, he raised a complaint. He was 
unhappy with how long it was taking to settle his claim. He was without use of a car and he 
wanted reimbursement for the car parts that were in the stolen car.
On 7 July 2022 Zurich didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said it couldnt provide a timescale 
as to how long it would take to settle the claim as it was still being investigated. 
However, on the following day it called Mr B to tell him it would settle his claim and would be 
in touch to discuss a total loss settlement with him. 
Zurich told Mr B the most it would pay was £7,000 as the amount quoted on his policy 
schedule. Mr B was very unhappy about this as he said hed paid around £10,000 for the 
car. He raised a further complaint. 
Zurich said the settlement was correct and in line with the policy. 
Mr B asked us to look at his complaints. Our Investigator asked Zurich to show what 
difference it would have made to the premium Mr B paid if Zurich paid the market value of 
his car rather than the sum set out on the policy schedule, which was lower. Zurich said Mr B 
would have paid the same premium even if it paid a (higher) settlement in line with the 
market value for a similar car at the time of loss. 
The Investigator issued two views. In the first, she thought Zurich had caused delays and 
recommended it pay Mr B £100 compensation. She didnt think the total loss settlement 
Zurich had paid was fair and recommended it pay the difference with interest based on the 
average of the main motor trade guide valuations, in line with our approach. 
Zurich didnt agree. Our Investigator issued a second view to take into account that it was 
fair to make a deduction of 20% from the valuation due to Mr Bs car having been previously 
written off. 
The Investigator made the following recommendations in her second view: for Zurich to pay 
the difference minus a 20% deduction - which was still more than Zurich had paid to settle 
the claim. She thought Zurich should pay compensation of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused - taking into account that Mr B was without use of his car as a result 
of Zurichs delay. 
Mr B accepted the Investigators second view. Zurich didnt agree. In summary it says it fairly 
settled Mr Bs claim in line with the policy terms. It was entitled to investigate the claim given 
the circumstances and so it isnt responsible for a delay. It provided examples where this 
service hadnt upheld valuation complaints based on the same policy terms.
So Zurich wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B reported the theft to Zurich on 13 June 2022. He said the theft happened on 11 April 
2022. I dont think Zurich is responsible for any delay - or for Mr B being without his car up 
until he contacted it. 
An insurer is entitled to make enquiries and investigate a claim before agreeing to settle it. In 
this case, the circumstances were that Mr B had left his car with a mechanic with the 
expectation of repairs to be done. On 20 June 2022 an engineer provided a total loss report - 
and on 22 June 2022 the police registered Mr Bs car as stolen. 
However, Zurich said it wanted to wait for a police report - and part of its enquiries included 
asking an Investigator to interview the mechanic. 
I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Zurich to delay Mr Bs claim at this point as I dont 
think such enquiries were reasonable - given the mechanic was a suspect and the police 
had registered the car as stolen. 
So I think Zurich was in a position to provide a total loss settlement to Mr B at this stage and 
ask for the documents it needed to validate his claim. 
On 5 July 2022 Mr B told Zurich that parts hed bought were in the stolen car. Zurich said 
this would be dealt with under the personal belongings section of cover under his policy. 
However, on 11 July 2022 Mr B called again to ask about this part of his claim. Notes show 
Zurich said it would pass Mr Bs request on. Mr B provided receipts for the parts that were in 
his car at the time of the theft. 
On 7 July 2022 Zurich didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint that it had caused unnecessary delay 
dealing with his claim. And it said it couldnt provide a timescale as to how long its 
investigation would take. However, the following day it agreed to proceed with providing a 
settlement sum to Mr B, without the police report. It changed its decision to make contact 
with the mechanic. 
Zurich had instructed an Investigator to interview Mr B. On 8 July 2022 the Investigator 
provided a report to Zurich by email. The email reads: 
Copy report attached which includes V5C and licence etc.
On 11 July 2022 Zurich provided Mr B with a total loss settlement of £7,000 minus the 
excess of £300, so £6,700. It asked Mr B to provide his V5C and keys for his car in order to 
pay the total loss settlement. Mr B said hed already provided the validation documents to the Investigator. Mr B 
complained about the settlement. He said he paid around £10,000 for his car when he 
bought it. 
On 12 July 2022 Zurich said Mr Bs policy schedule set out the market value for his car at 
£7,000. So it said it had acted correctly in reaching a settlement. 
Mr B bought his policy online through a broker. My decision doesnt relate to the sale of the 
policy. Zurich is the underwriter of the policy - so is responsible for the contract and any 
claim made under it. 
Zurich describes Ms Bs policy as a market value policy. The majority of standard motor 
insurance policies in the market are market value policies. In other words, most insurers 
provide policy wording which is very similar in relation to paying a market value. Most 
insurers say the most it will pay in the event of a total loss claim is the market value of the 
car at the time of loss. Underwriters may say that they take into account the value of the car 
- among other things - when deciding a premium.
Ms Bs policy with Zurich provides a definition as follows:
Market value  the cost of replacing your vehicle with another of a similar make, 
model, age, mileage and condition as at the time of the loss or damage, up to the 
value stated in your policy schedule.
The part; up to the value stated in your policy schedule is an unusual term for market value 
policies. 
The policy schedule lists both the purchase price of Mr Bs car - and an estimated value - as 
the same, being £7,000. 
Mr Bs policy with Zurich is - as it describes - a market value policy, not an agreed value 
policy. By applying Zurichs definition, only Zurich benefit, not Mr B. If the market value of Mr 
Bs car is above the amount shown on the schedule - which is described as an estimate -  
Zurich only need pay the lower amount. If the market value is below that stated on the 
schedule, again, Zurich only need pay the lower amount. I would also say that the market 
value for a car - taking into account age and mileage and market conditions - will be subject 
to fluctuation in value during a policy year. 
Crucially in this case, Zurich has confirmed that had Mr Bs car been estimated at a market 
value of £10,930 when he bought the policy - it wouldnt have charged him any more for 
cover. So Zurich hasnt been prejudiced by the lower estimate provided for Mr Bs car. 
In line with our approach for valuation complaints under market value insurance policies, we 
have looked at the main motor trade guides. We find them a reliable way to reach a fair 
valuation as they are based on likely selling prices for a car of the same make, model, age, 
mileage and condition. 
The engineer relied on one of the main motor trade guides to provide a retain transacted 
valuation of £10,930. As Mr Bs car was a previous write off, I think it was reasonable for the 
engineer to make a deduction here - as previously written off vehicles attract a lower market 
value.  
After deducting 20%, the valuation came to £8,744. But the engineer quoted a suggested 
value of £7,869.60. I cannot see any explanation as to why a further deduction was made. 
We dont look at only one main motor trade guides when deciding if a valuation has been 
reached reasonably. We look at all of the main available guides. Following our approach, we 
discounted one of three available valuation guides as it was out of kilter with the others. In 
this case, the average of the remaining guides gave a market value for Mr Bs car of 
£10,115. So, after a deduction of 20%, I think a fairer market value for Mr Bs car is £8,092. Having 
checked the main motor trade guides for a fair valuation of Mr Bs car in line with our 
approach, Im satisfied this sum is within the range. I think Zurich should pay the difference 
between the interim payment it made of £7,000 (minus the excess) and £8,092. Zurich 
should pay interest on the difference from the date of the claim to the date it pays. 
As Ive said, although Mr B was without use of a car since April 2022, I dont think Zurich is 
responsible for the inconvenience caused from this date. But I think Zurichs handling of the 
claim from the date he reported the theft caused unnecessary delay, distress and 
inconvenience. I think it led to Mr B being without use of a car for longer than necessary. 
And its decision to pay a much lower settlement was unfair. For this I think Zurich should pay 
Mr B £300 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Zurich Insurance PLC to do the 
following:
Pay the difference between the market value of £8,092 and £7,000 which 
Zurich paid (after deducting the excess) as an interim settlement. 
Pay interest on the difference at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from 13 
June 2022 to the date it pays. 
Pay compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Zurich Insurance PLC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If Zurich Insurance PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman