DRN-4199577
The complaint
Mr J complains that he wasnt allowed to close his fixed deposit by Clydesdale Bank Plc  
trading as Virgin Money (Virgin).
What happened
On 22 September 2022, Mr J opened a one-year fixed term deposit online with Virgin - it was 
Issue 495, interest rate 3.32%. He paid in £10,000 on the same day. He then asked to close 
it and have the money returned, but Virgin said he couldnt. 
Mr J complained. He said he was aware that all financial firms have a 14-day cooling off 
period on product applications. So Virgin shouldve allowed him to cancel the deposit. He 
said the terms and conditions, added to the Key Product Information was confusing, and 
didnt say that a 14-day cooling off period did not apply. He said that was the case in the 
printed and online versions of the documents, and in the online application process. 
Mr J also said the terms and conditions didnt refer to E-Bond  which is what he opened. 
He said that even though Virgin told him that he was emailed the terms and conditions  that 
wasnt the case, so Virgin misled him in that respect. Mr J said that Virgin took too long to 
deal with his complaint.
Virgin wrote a final response on 4 January 2023  but it wasnt sent to Mr J until 16 February 
2023  which he said he received on 22 February 2023. The response said the terms and 
conditions for the fixed rate bond were available online and so Mr J couldve made an 
informed decision. If Mr J wasnt clear  he couldve called Virgin or visited a branch to 
discuss his concerns. Virgin apologised for the length of time it had taken to deal with Mr Js 
complaint and offered compensation of £75.
Mr J declined Virgins offer and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said she was 
satisfied there was enough information given to Mr J to show he wouldnt be able to cancel 
the fixed deposit within a 14-day cooling off period - she reviewed the information available 
to Mr J when he went through the online application process. Mr J had ticked to confirm he 
had read the terms when completing the application. She said the terms said, You cant 
change your mind if our account is a Fixed Rate Bond. She thought the compensation of 
£75 was a fair offer.
Mr J didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. So  it has come to 
me to do that.
I reached a provisional decision which said:
There are several aspects to Mr Js complaint:
- He says it wasnt made clear to him when he applied for the fixed rate deposit that a 
14-day cooling off period didnt apply. Nor was it clear he couldnt withdraw the 
money if he changed his mind in that period. He referred to the relationship between 
the terms and conditions and the Key Product Information (KPIs) and said that it 
wasnt fair to expect a lay person to understand the effect of them together.
- He says that there wasnt sufficiently clear information given to him at the point of 
application on the website.
- The terms and conditions didnt refer to an E-Bond but only to a fixed rate bond. 
- He says Virgin told him they emailed the terms and conditions to him  but they 
didnt.
- He says Virgin admitted to him that they didnt send him their final response on 4 
January 2023 as theyd told us they had. Because of that, he couldnt put his 
complaint to our service as fully as he wouldve been able to if hed had it.
Terms and Conditions: Ive reviewed these and I think they are sufficiently clear and not 
misleading. They say, When you can close your account If you change your mind, you 
can close your account without charge within the first 14 days of opening it. Thats the 
point Mr J raises in his complaint  as he says that means he could close the fixed deposit 
within 14 days of the application.
But they go onto say at the end of the same paragraph: You can't change your mind if your 
account is a Fixed Rate Bond This is the crux of Mr Js complaint - and I think its 
reasonable to say that this is clear enough  that a fixed deposit cant be closed in the 14-
day period. 
The terms and conditions then go on to say:  After the first 14 days, you can close your 
account at any time unless your KPIs says otherwise. So  I  looked at the Key Product 
Information and it says, Early closure or withdrawals are not permitted until after the fixed 
rate period as detailed.  And  the fixed rate bond is shown as a fixed term for one year with 
a maturity date of 20 September 2023.
So the terms and conditions and KPIs combine to say that a fixed deposit cannot be closed 
for the one-year period. Therefore  I think its reasonable for me to say that the terms and 
conditions, and the KPIs are sufficiently clear and not misleading.
Application process and communications: I looked at what Mr J wouldve seen at the time of 
the online application. This included in the summary box: Early closure or withdrawals are 
not permitted until after the fixed rate period as detailed. And: You are unable to cancel this 
account once it has been opened. I think thats clear  the fixed deposit could not be 
cancelled.
I could also see that Mr J wouldve ticked to say he had read and accepted the summary box 
information, Key Facts and Terms and Conditions  the documents which Ive referred to 
here.
So  I think its reasonable for me to say that there wasnt anything that wasnt sufficiently 
clear in Virgins communications about the fixed deposit when Mr J opened it. And  Mr J 
confirmed he had read the information.
The terms and conditions were for a fixed rate bond, not an E-Bond: I considered Mr Js 
point here. I can see that the KPIs were headed Fixed Rate E-Bond Issue 495. And the 
online application was headed 1 year Fixed Rate E-Bond. So  I think that it was 
sufficiently clear that the terms applied to the E-Bond.Emailed Terms and Conditions: Virgin told Mr J they emailed the documents to him. But it 
came to light during our investigation that they hadnt. Virgin apologised for that error in what 
they told Mr J  it wasnt part of their process to do that. So  I can accept this was a mistake 
by Virgin. And  this led to Mr J questioning what hed been told by Virgin and having to 
dispute that point. So - I think its fair and reasonable for Virgin to pay an increased amount 
of compensation for this error.
Final Response not sent: Virgin have admitted they didnt send Mr J their final response on 4 
January 2023 as they told us they had. Virgin said Mr J had got in touch and the final 
response letter was sent on 16 February 2023. He argues that had he had it before, he 
couldve put his complaint to us in a more comprehensive fashion. Ive considered this point. 
But  he complained to us in December 2022  so he wouldnt have had Virgins response at 
that time anyway. So  Im not persuaded it made a difference to what he told us. 
But in any case, it is important that a firm sends their final response to a customer in a timely 
and effective way  and clearly it was an error not to have sent the response at all. We 
asked Virgin for more information about this and they showed that Mr J called or messaged  
three times to chase it  between 27 January 2023 and 10 February 2023.
I can see this was frustrating and time consuming for Mr J and so I think it is fair to ask Virgin 
to pay increased compensation for that error; and for misleading Mr J in saying the terms 
and conditions had been emailed to him. A further award of £50 is appropriate, in addition to 
the £75 already offered by Virgin.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Virgin agreed to increase the compensation to £125. Mr J made some substantive 
comments which said (in summary):
A lay person cannot be expected to go through and understand all the terms and 
conditions, especially the finer points.
A summary box should be provided with key points to obviate this need.
Virgin should have said clearly that the 14-day cooling off period doesnt apply to 
fixed rate bonds.
He (and other customers) tick read terms and conditions without doing so.
I now need to consider these points and make a final decision.(continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im grateful for the time Mr J has put into making his further points  in all honesty, 
they were points he made at the time of the complaint, and ones that I had considered in 
making the provisional decision. But to address his points:Terms and conditions: while I hear what Mr J says, it remains the case that terms and 
conditions do form the basis of a financial contract, and our service cannot discount them in 
the way Mr J suggests. And  as the provisional decision says, Im satisfied that as far as the 
fixed rate bond goes, they are sufficiently clear.
I noted in the provisional decision that a summary box is provide online at the point of 
application  and these say that a fixed rate bond cannot be closed once it has been 
opened.
Turning to Mr Js points that Virgin should point out that a 14-day cooling off period is not 
applicable to fixed rate bonds  I dont think its reasonable to expect a firm to state what 
terms do not apply to any contract  rather that firms must set out what terms do apply. 
Mr J raises the wider point that consumers tick read terms and conditions without actually 
doing so. And thats what he did. While that may be the case  Im afraid that doesnt mean 
here that I can make a decision in Mr Js favour  the point is that he did tick to say he had 
read them.
Therefore, having considered Mr Js points, my final decision is unchanged from the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Virgin Money  must:
Pay compensation of £125 for distress and inconvenience. This includes the £75 offered by 
Virgin. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman