DRN-2100010
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Ageas Insurance Limited should pay their claim on their caravan 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a caravan. For the year from May 2019, they had a caravan insurance 
policy under which Ageas was responsible for dealing with claims. 
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs C reported that storms had caused ingress of water through 
the caravan roof fittings. They later obtained an estimate for repairs totalling £172.42. 
Ageas appointed an assessor and on 2 March declined the claim. Ageas said that the seals 
had deteriorated over time and let rain water in. Mr and Mrs C complained to Ageas about 
that. Ageas wrote a final response dated 9 March turning down the complaint.
Unhappy with that, Mr and Mrs C brought the complaint to us in April 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that it 
was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim on the basis the seals had been subject to 
wear and tear which caused the ingress of water.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They say, in summary, that:
The ferocious power of wind and rain breached the breakwaters of both fittings.
They were in the caravan when the ingress of water occurred and have first-hand 
information of where the water was coming into the caravan.
The temporary repair done soon after the storms was all above the sealant level 
which proves there is nothing wrong with the sealant joints in the area of leak. There 
have been no further leaks since.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the certificate of insurance dated May 2019, I see that Mrs Cs caravan was about 
twenty years old. The certificate says that for the policy year from May 2019, the excess on 
the policy was £100.00. 
But someone has crossed out £100.00 and written in £50.00. And at the end of its email 
dated 20 April 2020, Ageas said the following:
confirm that your policy excess was indeed amended to £50 at the last renewal 
and I apologise for this over sight
The policy covered an Incident defined as follows:
A sudden, unexpected, specific event which occurs at an identified time and place 
resulting in loss or damage
It didnt cover the following:
Depreciation, deterioration, manufacturing defects, general wear and tear, damage 
by pets, moth, vermin, rot, frost, water leakage or any gradually operating process 
such as rust or damp 
So the policy didnt cover general wear and tear or water leakage.
I accept that Mr and Mrs C saw water coming through the skylight and vent fittings in the 
roof.
They did some temporary repairs. And they say there have been no further leaks after the 
storms.
But Ageas got an assessors report that included the following:
it would appear that the sealer has deteriorated over time and with the amount of 
rain and wind that we have currently suffered in the past few weeks this obviously 
found its way in through the sealer. There are no signs of impact damage or indeed 
storm damage, the leak is due to the deterioration of the sealer. Therefore this is 
down to wear and tear given the age of the caravan.
And Mr and Mrs C also got an estimate for more permanent repairs. That included the 
following:
remove all old sealants from roof light and vent. Remove all sealant from caravan 
roof. Refit and reseal with an appropriate sealant all removed items.
From that estimate and that report, I find that it was the sealant that had failed. In my view 
Mr C hasnt shown that his temporary repairs were for an incident other than the 
deterioration of the seals.
So I dont find that Ageas treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly by saying that this was wear and 
tear and declining the claim. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to meet the 
claim or to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman