DRN-2137680
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank sending him 
communications on his account that he hadnt requested. He says these have caused him 
stress and inconvenience.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H is upset that he received a message saying his account was close to going into 
an unarranged overdraft as he said it caused him distress as he was concerned that 
there was a problem with his account. While I understand why Mr H was concerned 
that he had received this communication, Tesco Bank has shown that it contacted 
customers in February 2019 to say that changes would be made to accounts and that 
customers would be informed if an account was getting close to, or had moved into, 
an arranged or unarranged overdraft. Therefore, Mr H should have been reasonably 
aware of this service.
The email sent to customers about this new alert system included information about 
what to do if the customer didnt want to receive these alerts or wished to receive 
them by email. Mr H said that the message suggested the email alert was an opt-in 
which he didnt do and so he shouldnt have received the message. I understand the 
point Mr H is making and the communication could have been clearer that the alert 
would be sent by text or email before discussing the options available to change the 
preferences. However, I find the service was presented as a communication to all 
customers regarding their accounts and I do not find, on balance, Mr H has been 
treated unfairly by being sent the alert when his account fell below the threshold 
amount.  
Mr H said that the message he received didnt set out how to opt out of the service. I 
accept this but this information had been previously provided in the initial 
communication. Had Mr H not been aware of how to stop the alerts he could have 
contacted Tesco Bank about this. And while I note he did this through his complaint 
in January 2020, I understand he had received a previous alert in July 2019 which he 
hadnt raised concerns about.
Mr H said that the alert received in January caused him concern and he travelled 
home to check his balance. He also said he manages his account closely. The 
message alert he received explains that the message is sent when an account 
balance is between £0 and £50 and so if Mr H was aware that his account was 
around zero he should have been aware of why this message was sent. That said, I 
can understand why he decided to check this, but as he has said his account was at 
zero at the time, I cannot say that Tesco Bank did anything wrong by sending the 
alert.
I understand the alert caused Mr H concern, I cannot say that Tesco Bank did 
anything wrong by sending this. It had notified its customers of the new alert system 
and this was provided in order to assist customers. I understand the alert caused 
concern rather than assistance to Mr H, but this was set up for all customers and as I 
have nothing to show he had taken action to change his preferences regarding this 
service, I cannot say that Tesco Bank did anything wrong.
Mr H received a letter from Tesco Bank dated 18 January 2020 saying that contact 
had been attempted and but there had been an issue as it didnt appear to have the 
correct mobile number. Mr H complains that the letter didnt contain the reason why 
Tesco Bank was trying to get in touch. I note Mr Hs comments. Tesco Bank has 
explained that it was trying to send Mr H a text about a new card being sent out and 
that this bounced back. Given the contact failed, I find it reasonable it would take its 
standard actions in order to contact Mr H. In this case the standard process was for 
the letter to be sent to Mr H asking for contact to be made to check his contact details 
were up to date. I find this a reasonable approach.
Overall, while I note Mr Hs comments, Tesco Bank has followed it usual process 
regarding a notification when the account balance fell below a certain threshold and 
by sending out a letter asking for contact to be made when a contact attempt had 
failed. I cannot say that Mr H has been treated unfairly and I while I appreciate the 
comments he has made about the time and upset the communications have caused, 
as I do not find that Tesco Bank did anything wrong I do not require it to pay Mr H 
any compensation. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman