DRN-4091528
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) and the renewal 
of her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P held a motor insurance policy underwritten by LV. In July 2022, during the policy term, 
Mrs P called LV to add a car onto the policy. The policy was updated, and an additional 
premium paid by Mrs P. But the policy term itself remained the same, with the policy expiring 
on 19 October.
On 20 September, LV emailed Mrs P explaining her policy would expire on 19 October, and 
they explained it wouldnt auto-renew. So, if Mrs P wanted to continue with the policy, she 
would need to contact LV over the phone or confirm the renewal online.
Mrs P took no further action, and LV emailed Mrs P again on 10 October, reiterating the 
same information. LV then text Mrs P on 17 October, explaining Mrs P was still able to 
renew the policy online. Mrs P took no further action and so, the policy expired.
In November, Mrs Ps husband, a named driver on the expired policy, was involved in a road 
traffic accident. Mrs P called LV to make a claim on her policy and it was at this point Mrs P 
became aware the policy had expired. Mrs P was unhappy about this, so she raised a 
complaint.
Mrs P didnt think LV had made it reasonably clear in the communication to her that she 
needed to take further action to ensure the policy renewed. Mrs P explained the policy had 
been set for automatic renewal for several years, and she didnt think LV had made her 
reasonably aware this had changed. Mrs P also disputed LVs reasoning for needing to halt 
the auto-renewal, as she felt shed provided LV with up-to-date card details when paying the 
additional mid-term premium in July. So, whether or not the original card used to pay the 
policy had expired, she didnt think this meant LV had acted fairly. So, Mrs P wanted LV to 
reinstate the policy and to accept their communication wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.
LV responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they made it reasonably 
clear to Mrs P that she needed to take further action to ensure the policy renewed. So, they 
didnt think they had done anything wrong and because of this, they didnt think the policy 
should be reinstated. Mrs P remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied in the 
communication LV sent that it was made reasonably clear Mrs P needed to take further 
action to ensure the policy renewed. While they noted Mrs Ps comments about her personal 
circumstances at the time, our investigator thought the onus was on Mrs P to ensure all of 
the correspondence received from LV, including documents attached to emails, were fully 
understood. So, they didnt think LV had acted unfairly and didnt think LV needed to do 
anything more.
Mrs P didnt agree. And she provided extensive comments explaining why. These included, 
and are not limited to, her belief that it was reasonable for her to assume LV held up to date 
card details after she paid the mid-term premium. And crucially, Mrs P maintained her view 
that LV hadnt made it reasonably clear in the heading of the emails, or texts, sent to her that 
her policy wouldnt automatically renew. And so, she felt LV hadnt acted fairly on this 
occasion.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ps comments, but their view remained unchanged. Mrs P 
continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs P. I dont in any way 
believe it was Mrs P, or her husbands, intention to drive without insurance. And I accept that 
Mrs Ps assumption the policy had automatically renewed was an honest one, based on the 
way her policy had been managed previously. So, when Mrs P called LV to make a claim 
following her husbands accident and was told she had no insurance in place, I can 
understand the shock and upset this wouldve caused. And, while I note Mrs P has been 
able to claim the costs of the damages back from the third-party at fault, I appreciate this 
doesnt compensate Mrs P for the upset shes felt.
But for me to say LV should reinstate the policy, or take any other action, I first need to be 
satisfied they did something wrong. So, in this case, Id need to be satisfied LV failed to 
issue communication that shouldve made Mrs P reasonably aware her policy wouldnt 
automatically renew and that she needed to take further action. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
I note Mrs P has accepted LV sent her e-mails on 20 September and 10 October as well as 
a text on 17 October. And Mrs P has accepted this communication contained information 
about the renewal of her policy. It is our services expectation, based on standard industry 
practice and regulatory guidelines, that renewal information is sent to a customer by two 
methods, within a reasonable amount of time before the policy is due to lapse.
In this situation, LV have sent Mrs P communication by both email and text message. And 
LVs first e-mail was sent a month before the end of the policy. So, I think LV have acted in 
line with their obligations here.
But I recognise Mrs P doesnt think the communication itself was clear enough. So, Ive 
considered this at length to decide whether I think the information provided to Mrs P was fair 
and reasonable. And I think it was.
I can see in both e-mails LV included an attached letter which I think made it clear Mrs P 
needed to contact LV to renew the policy. And I note Mrs P herself has acknowledged the 
letters made this clear. 
But Mrs P has argued the titles of the e-mails didnt make it clear what information was 
contained within them and, as shed received e-mails like this during years where the policy had auto renewed, she didnt think it was fair for LV to expect her to read the emails and the 
attached documents in their entirety. But I dont agree.
I can see both e-mails were titled IMPORTANT with the direction renew online now 
included. And I can see in the email sent to Mrs P before her automatic renewal in 2021, 
there was no direction such as renew online now included. So, I do think the titles of the 
emails were materially different, and I think this was because LV didnt hold up to date card 
details to take payment.
And within the body of the emails sent in 2022, I think its made reasonably clear that Mrs P 
needed to take further action, explaining If youre able to renew online, please do so by 
visiting {website}. If youre unable to renew online or need to make a change, youll still be 
able to call us on {number}.
This is again different to the body of the email sent to Mrs P before her renewal in 2021, 
which explains If youre happy, you dont need to do anything else. Your policy will just 
renew automatically. So, whether or not Mrs P opened the letters attached to the emails, 
which I do think the onus was on her to do, I think the information in the title and body of the 
emails she received made it reasonably clear she needed to take further action. And its not 
in dispute that Mrs P didnt.
So, without receiving any contact from Mrs P, I think LV were reasonable to assume Mrs P 
didnt want the policy to continue and because of this, I think they were fair to let it expire. 
And so, I dont think I can say LV should reinstate the policy on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs P was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mrs P Ive 
considered her comments about the fact she paid LV with updated card information a few 
months before the policy was due for renewal. But I dont think LV were obliged to use this 
card information and automatically apply it to Mrs Ps policy, as I dont think Mrs P gave 
them her express authority to do so. And even if she did, I think Mrs P was given reasonable 
opportunity by LV to take the necessary action to ensure her policy renewed and it was Mrs 
Ps responsibility to ensure she followed the steps required.
I also note that, as LV didnt have up to date card details, they didnt take payment for the 
new policy. And I think Mrs P shouldve been reasonably aware of the policy price, and that 
payment shouldve been taken from her account around the time the policy shouldve 
renewed. When this payment wasnt taken from Mrs Ps account, I wouldve expected Mrs P 
to notice this and query this with LV, as the onus is on a customer to manage their account 
and any expected payments. Again, I cant see Mrs P did this.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint about Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman