DRN-4086177
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance plc (D&G) declined her claim for 
repairs to her games console under the policy exclusion of malicious damage.
What happened
Miss S bought entertainment appliance insurance to cover her games console for 
breakdown and accidental damage. She sent the console for repair under her policy. When 
Miss S got the console back it still wasn't working. She made another claim under her policy 
for the damaged port.
D&G inspected the console, but it didnt offer a repair. D&G suspected the port had been 
damaged on purpose, so her claim wasn't covered.
Miss S disputed D&Gs conclusion. She thought it had caused the damage when it carried 
out the first repair, so she complained.
D&G issued a final response to Miss Ss complaint explaining that its repairer said the 
damage looked deliberate. But if she provided proof of purchase and completed an 
accidental damage claim form, it would reconsider her claim. D&G said Miss S provided the 
proof of purchase, but it hadnt received a completed accidental damage claim form.
Miss S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think D&G had done anything 
wrong, so she didnt uphold the complaint. Our investigator said D&G had reasonably 
offered to consider the claim again if Miss S completed the accidental damage claim form.
But Miss S didnt agree. She said D&G had the accidental damage reports and she thought 
theyd show that its repairer caused the damage.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue is that Miss S doesnt think D&G treated her fairly when it declined her claim 
relying on the malicious damage terms and conditions of her policy.
Theres no dispute that D&G told Miss S that its expert concluded the port had been 
damaged on purpose. D&G told us that its the fourth claim Miss S made for the same issue 
under her policy since inception some months earlier. D&G repaired the console on the first 
three occasions, but on this occasion it said the damage looked as though it was malicious.
D&G provided a photo of the console and a damage report from its repairer. The report said 
the port had been lifted from the console and thats not consistent with accidental damage. 
The photo supports this conclusion.
I understand Miss S said D&G caused the damage when it completed the previous repair. 
However, I havent seen any evidence to support her claim.
When Miss S complained to D&G about that, it asked her for further information. She 
provided proof of purchase as requested but she didnt complete an accidental damage 
claim form. Miss S said the repairer completes the form and she didnt think she should need 
to complete one. D&G said it would reconsider the claim on receipt of the completed form.
Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that D&G fairly declined the claim based on 
the evidence available to it at the time showing the lifted port which was inconsistent with 
accidental damage. While Miss S doesnt agree with its decision, D&G has provided her with 
the opportunity to submit further information for it to consider. The terms of the policy allow 
D&G to seek additional information, so I dont think its an unreasonable request.
Overall, the evidence persuades me that D&G handled Miss Ss claim in line with the terms 
of her policy. Should she want it to consider her claim further, shell need to provide D&G 
with a completed accidental damage claim form. For clarity, thats not something this service 
or D&Gs agents can do on her behalf.
I think D&Gs offer to reconsider the claim on receipt of evidence is fair and reasonable. I 
see no reason to ask D&G to do any more.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman