DRN-2904653
The complaint
Mr E complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) lent him a loan he couldnt afford.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
L2G lent Mr E a loan of £400 in November 2018, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on
giving the reasons for my decision about this loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
oL2G says it carried out checks before agreeing to lend. It says it asked about Mr Es 
income and expenditure. Mr E declared his income as £3000 but it says it verified 
this as £2424. It says Mr E declared his expenditure as £1950 and it assessed it as 
£2033 after it took into consideration what it saw on the credit search it carried out. It 
says after it had assessed affordability it could see Mr E could afford the loan 
repayments. 
oFrom what I can see, the amount of income Mr E declared compared to what L2G 
assessed was quite wide. In addition, on the credit check it carried out there was a 
County Court Judgement with an outstanding balance to repay. Also, on the check 
was a short-term loan that was in arrears and 2 credit cards that had balances over 
the set limits. So, I think when it saw all this, L2G ought to have carried out further 
checks to find out more and assure itself that Mr E could afford this loan in a 
sustainable way. I cant see that it did this and so I dont think its checks went far 
enough.
oMr E has provided copies of his bank statements from around the time of the loan. 
Ive relied on this in the absence of information from L2G at the time of the loan as I 
think his bank statements provide a clear picture about his actual financial
circumstances at the time. From what I can see, around the time L2G granted Mr E 
this loan, Mr E was having problems managing his finances. He was regularly 
overdrawn, and I can see in the month leading up to L2G granting this loan, Mr E had 
6 returned direct debits due to not having the funds in his account to pay them. Mr E 
was not able to pay what he was already committed to, let alone adding an additional 
credit commitment. Two of the returned direct debits were in relation to other monthly 
loan repayments that Mr E held. These repayments were returned only days before 
Mr E asked for this loan. I think if L2G had carried out further checks and seen this, it 
would have seen that a further loan repayment on top of this wouldnt have been 
sustainable. Especially over the 18-month loan term.  
oSufficient checks by L2G would have shown that Mr E couldnt afford this loan. In the 
circumstances, L2G lent to Mr E when it shouldnt have, and it needs to put things 
right.
Putting things right
While I think L2G shouldnt have lent to Mr E, I think it will be fair for him to repay the capital 
of £400 which he borrowed. So, to put things right, L2G should:
add up all the payments made by Mr E, if it exceeds the capital amount of £400, then 
the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mr E, remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file as a result of this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to above.
L2G must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld, and I direct Loans 2 Go Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman