DRN-3074388
Complaint
Mr N has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) irresponsibly increased his 
overdraft limit in January 2020. He says that Santander ought to have realised he couldnt 
afford what he was being lent.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 13 September 2021
Santander increased initially agreed to provide Mr N with an overdraft of £100. Over the 
space of three days Mr Ns overdraft limit was increased eight times until it reached  
£1,750.00. Santander didnt think that it had done anything wrong and so it didnt uphold    
Mr Ns complaint. Mr N remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and didnt think that Santander had done 
anything wrong. Mr N disagreed with our investigator and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for review.
On 13 September 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on      
Mr Ns complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I referred to this when provisionally deciding Mr Ns 
complaint. I then went on to explain that Santander needed to make sure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, what this meant was that Santander needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr N would be able to repay what he 
was being lent before providing any credit to him. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
My evaluation of Santanders actions noted that it appeared to have placed significant weight 
on Mr Ns account conduct in the period leading up to the overdraft limit increases. It says it 
agreed to the applications based on Mr Ns account history and information provided by 
external sources such as credit reference agencies. It said what it saw led it to believe that 
Mr N could repay the credit Mr N was asking for and, in these circumstances, it was 
reasonable to lend. 
I considered what Mr N and Santander had said. The first thing I said was that Mr Ns 
overdraft limit was increased a number of times over a very short period. And there was an 
argument for saying that this in itself was concerning as long-established good industry 
practice suggested that frequent requests for increased borrowing are an indication of 
financial difficulty.
I was also concerned that Santander appeared to have been aware that Mr N had had a low 
credit score until August 2019. And its comments within its investigation also appeared to 
suggest that this meant Mr N wasnt eligible for any sort of overdraft up until this point. In 
these circumstances, I thought that Santander ought to have been concerned when Mr N 
started making a number of limit increase applications within a short period of time less than 
five months later. 
And by the time Mr N made his fifth request, for a limit of £1,500.00, the day after he was 
given an overdraft, I thought that Santander ought to have been concerned that there was a 
significant risk Mr N might been requesting funds he wasnt able to repay. In my view, Mr Ns 
previous difficulties repaying credit, his immediate use of the funds advanced the day the 
before, as well as the income going into the account not suggesting he could repay the funds 
all meant that Santander shouldnt have increased Mr Ns credit limit over £1,000.00. 
As Santander chose to increase Mr Ns overdraft limit in those circumstances and without 
doing anything further to check his ability to repay, I thought Santander treated Mr N unfairly 
when it provided the four overdraft limit increases which took Mr Ns limit from £1,000.00 to 
£1,750.00. Mr N was being expected to pay additional interest and charges on extra credit 
he shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So all of this left me intending to find 
that he lost out because of what Santander did wrong and that it needed to put things right.
Mr Ns response to my provisional decision   
Mr N provided nothing further for me to think about.
Santanders response to my provisional decision
Santander confirmed receipt of my provisional decision. It didnt confirm whether it accepted 
the decision. However, it said that Mr N hadnt suffered any loss because it charged a flat 
fee of £1 a day, for everyday a customer was overdrawn up to the amount of £2,000.00. 
So Mr N would have, in any event, had the £57 he had added to his balance whether he was 
overdrawn by the £1,000.00 it is agreed it wasnt unfair for it to lend, or £1,750.00 (which 
includes the extra £750 I said shouldnt have been lent).   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision set out in some detail why I was intending to uphold Mr Ns 
complaint. And as neither party has provided anything further or challenged my findings, Ive 
not been persuaded to alter my conclusions that the limit increases about £1,000.00 
shouldnt have been provided to Mr N. 
That said, Ive considered Santanders further points on what, if any, loss Mr N suffered as a 
result of its actions. Im still satisfied that the method I set out in my provisional decision sets 
out the most appropriate method of determining what, if any, loss Mr N suffered. So if Mr N 
accepts my provisional decision and performing the calculation below results in no 
compensation being due to him, Santander will need to provide Mr N with the necessary 
documentation to support its conclusion.  
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Mr N
Having thought about everything, I think that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of Mr Ns complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ns overdraft balance to ensure interest is only charged on the first 
£1,000.00 of any outstanding balance, to reflect the fact that he shouldnt have 
been given the limit increases from this point onwards; and
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr N to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If Santander considers it appropriate to record negative information on  
Mr Ns credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the account from January 2020.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr N along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Ns credit file. 
To be clear, if it is the case that Mr N paid no additional interest as a result of the additional 
overdraft limit increases then no compensation will be due.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman