DRN-4353817
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the ongoing reviews of his income protection claim by Zurich 
Assurance Ltd.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them in detail here. In summary 
Zurich admitted Mr Ws income protection claim under his employers group insurance policy 
in 2020. Mr W found the annual reviews of his claim to be stressful. He felt that an annual 
review was too intrusive and that the reviews shouldnt be as frequent. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld  she didnt find Zurich had 
done anything wrong. Mr W appealed. He felt that as Zurich had accepted an indefinite sick 
note this should suffice, as his illness is chronic and progressive.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly though Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find is the key issue here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the file and having done so I agree with the conclusion reached 
by our investigator for the following reasons:
Mr Ws employers policy terms contain the following: Incapacity or Incapacitated 
means an illness or injury that causes the Member to be unable to work and is 
applicable under this policy. The Incapacity definition that applies is in your policy 
schedule. The Member must be under the regular supervision and treatment of a 
Medical Practitioner. We can ask for medical evidence at regular intervals throughout 
a claim. And: To make sure the claim remains valid, well carry out periodic reviews. 
This will involve more phone discussions with you and the Member. We may also 
need to obtain more medical and other evidence. I do understand Mr Ws point that, 
to paraphrase, given his diagnosis, the review is unnecessary. But is not for this 
service to tell Zurich how to operate. This is a standard term in policies of this type, 
and I dont find that Zurich have erred in seeking to rely on it.
It may be, as Mr W suggests, that reviews in his case are not the best use of Zurichs 
resources. But this is a matter for Zurich, and not one which this Service can 
interfere.
Nevertheless I note that Zurich did agree to waive its usual processes. It accepted 
the indefinite sick note and agreed to review every 18 months in view of the stress it 
caused Mr W. I find that was fair. Additionally, it was prepared to accept emailed 
answers to its review questions which it sent in advance, although Mr W preferred to 
have a phone conversation. However there is no basis for me to determine that in Mr 
Ws case, or in cases of those with a similar diagnosis, Zurich should disregard its 
policy terms and not undertake periodic reviews or review the claim at all.
I do understand why Mr W feels strongly about this issue, and I recognise he will be 
disappointed by my decision. But in order to uphold his complaint I would need to be 
able to find that Zurich has acted contrary to law or regulation or treated Mr W 
unfairly or unreasonably. As I dont conclude it has done so, Im not directing Zurich 
to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman