DRN-4139335
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited [RSA] has unfairly 
declined a claim theyve made on their caravan insurance following a break in and theft of 
some contents. 
What happened
RSA is the underwriter of the caravan insurance policy. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of one of its agents, for which RSA has accepted responsibility. Any reference to 
RSAs actions includes those of its agents. RSA has provided its consent for this Service to 
consider Mr Ws complaint even though its potentially been raised outside the usual 
timescales.
Mr W has led the complaint with this Service so I have referred to him mainly throughout.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr W owned a caravan which was insured by RSA. In 2011, Mr W says someone 
broke into the caravan and some of the contents were stolen. Mr W says he made a 
claim on the policy but it was declined as the method of break-in wasnt covered. 
Mr W contacted this Service in 2012 to complain about RSAs actions and we wrote 
to RSA asking it to issue a final response in relation to the complaint. But Mr W says 
he didnt receive a response from RSA.
Mr W got back in contact with us in 2022 saying he had been writing to RSA since 
that time but it still hadnt settled the claim and it had stopped responding to his 
letters. 
Following further contact from this Service, RSA confirmed it had been the 
underwriter of the policy at the time and that any claims would have been handled by 
one of its agents. Due to the passage of time, there was very limited information 
available about the claim but RSA managed to obtain a copy of a letter sent to Mr W 
in January 2012, seemingly declining the claim.
Our Investigator considered what evidence there was available and didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said the policy required there to be evidence of forced entry for the 
claim to be covered but the contemporaneous evidence showed there was no sign of 
this. Overall, she was satisfied RSA had acted fairly and in line with the policy terms 
in declining the claim.
Mr W disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within Mr Ws submissions there are a number of other issues noted over the years, 
including but not limited to, problems with the holiday park where the caravan was located 
and with the postal service. But these issues are outside the scope of this complaint and the 
focus of my decision is the insurance claim made after the break-in and RSAs actions in 
relation to it.
The insurance claim
When making a claim on an insurance policy, its for the policyholder to prove their 
claim - thats to show there was a valid claim for a risk covered by the policy terms. 
Ill be reviewing this complaint in light of this principle, while keeping in mind what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable. Where the evidence is conflicting or inconclusive, 
as it is in this complaint, Ill reach my decision on the balance of probabilities, thats to 
say what I consider to be more likely. 
RSA says, in line with its obligation to adhere to data privacy rules, it only retains 
documentation for seven years and I dont think this is unreasonable. So, its not 
surprising theres limited information about this claim which was made by Mr W some 
12 years ago.
The letter sent to Mr W in 2011 declining the claim explains where theres been no 
sign of violent or forcible entry, theres no cover for theft under the policy. While the 
full policy terms are no longer available for reasons Ive already explained, I have 
been provided with a copy of the certificate of insurance.  The General Conditions 
section on the certificate contains the following wording which is consistent with 
RSAs reason for declining the claim: 
Theft means actual or attempted theft from a caravan involving entry to or 
exit from a Caravan by forcible and violent means or following actual or 
threatened assault or violence
So I have to consider whether Mr W has provided enough evidence to show the theft 
hes claiming for involved forcible or violent means. Memories fade and change 
over time, so I consider the evidence recorded at the time of the claim - to be more 
reliable than an individuals recollection of events.
The claim decline letter from the time shows the Police attended the caravan park to 
discuss the theft with Mr W and investigate the circumstances. Having done this, they 
concluded there was no sign of forced entry or break in. Because of this, RSA 
concluded that it was likely a key had been used to gain access. 
I acknowledge Mr Ws belief the lock may have been damaged when a thief 
attempted to force the lock with a key but Ive not seen any evidence from the time 
which contradicts the view of the Police that there was no sign of forcible entry and 
Mr Ws belief a key may have been used seems broadly in line with RSAs view.
Taking everything Ive said above into account, Im not persuaded theres enough 
evidence to safely conclude the theft involved forcible or violent means and it follows 
Im satisfied RSA fairly declined the claim in line with those policy terms which are 
still available for me to consider, so I wont be asking it to do anymore.
The incorrect nameMr W was also unhappy he was issued with an insurance certificate which showed 
an incorrect name. Ive seen RSAs agent - which was responsible for issuing the 
certificate - apologised and confirmed that despite the error, cover for Mr Ws 
caravan under the policy had been unaffected. 
While I accept this error would have been frustrating, Ive not been given anything to 
consider which shows Mr W experienced a material impact as a consequence or 
anything beyond the inconvenience of having to point out the error. So I wont be 
asking RSA to do any more on this part of the complaint either.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman