DRN-3614461
The complaint
Mr R has complained about delays in The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) recovering costs under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Rs neighbour had an oil leak that affected Mr Rs property. The neighbour provided Mr R 
with his insurers details. Mr R contacted NFU to tell it what had happened. NFU sent Mr R 
an email to say it had set-up a claim and would look to recover costs from the neighbours 
insurer.
When Mr Rs policy renewed, the premium had significantly increased. Mr R queried this 
with NFU and was told that this was because of the claim for the oil leak. Mr R also found 
that NFU hadnt attempted to recover the costs from the neighbours insurer. So, Mr R 
complained.
NFU said it should have pursued the costs recovery at the time the claim was finalised. 
There had been a lengthy delay in initiating the recovery process. It said even if the recovery 
process had been initiated at the correct time, it was unlikely it would have been completed. 
It offered £100 compensation for the service failure. NFU said if the recovery was 
successful, all the terms would be removed, the no claims discount reinstated and the 
premiums backdated. However, it couldnt guarantee the success of the recovery.
When Mr R complained to this service, our investigator said NFU didnt need to do anything 
further. She said NFU accepted it had made a mistake, but there wasnt evidence to show 
the delay in recovering the costs affected the outcome. She said the £100 compensation 
offered by NFU was reasonable.
As Mr R didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require NFU to do anything further. I will explain why.
Im aware that Mr R complained about NFU registering the claim. However, Im not 
considering that as part of this decision. Im only looking at the delay in NFU seeking to 
recover the costs of the claim and the effect this had on the premium.
NFU accepted it made a mistake by closing the claim without seeking to recover the costs 
from the third-party insurer. It confirmed to Mr R that it had correctly calculated the premium 
based on real time information. It also said that it had checked and it was unlikely the 
recovery would have been completed by the time the policy renewed, even if it had tried to 
recover it earlier. NFU also explained to Mr R that if the costs were successfully recovered 
from the third-party insurer that the no claims discount would be reinstated and the 
premiums would be backdated. In the circumstances, I think NFU responded reasonably. It 
isnt guaranteed that an insurer will be able to recover costs from a third-party and it can be 
a time-consuming process to attempt a recovery. Although NFU should have tried to recover 
the money earlier, I havent seen anything that persuades me starting the process earlier 
would have made a difference to the premium at the time the policy came up for renewal.
NFU offered Mr R £100 compensation because of the delay in trying to recover costs. Mr R 
has said he had assumed the delay in recovery was the fault of his neighbours insurer. 
When he raised this with his neighbour, he said it made an already strained relationship 
irretrievable and that the compensation NFU offered wasnt enough to cover this. Ive 
thought about this and think the compensation offered by NFU was appropriate in the 
circumstances. It should have tried to recover the costs earlier, but I dont think I can fairly 
say NFU was responsible for the conversation with the neighbour or the breakdown in 
relationship.
Im aware that Mr R remains concerned about the ongoing process to try and recover the 
costs and also about the potential impact on future premiums. Mr R would need to raise 
these issues with NFU.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited doesnt need to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman