DRN-3761756
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op). He 
also says the Co-op discriminated against him and disrespected him because of his race  
and treated him differently to other customers whilst in branch. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only refer to some key 
events here. 
Mr G telephoned the Co-op in April 2022 with several concerns he had about the service he 
was getting. He wanted his statements sent less frequently  requesting one a month so he 
could provide these for his mortgage application. Mr G was also concerned that the more 
statements sent out the more risk there was of his data getting into the wrong hands  
particularly given he lived in a flat with communal letter boxes. 
Mr G also said the Co-op had told him it would stop a fraudulent payment for £45 hed made 
via an online payment platform (which Ill refer to here as A) in December 2021, but hed 
since discovered the payment had been processed.
Mr G told the Co-op hed been treated differently to other customers when he attended the 
branch earlier that day. He said bank staff had been speaking to other customers in close 
proximately, but when he approached them, they backed away and made him feel 
uncomfortable. 
The Co-op explained to Mr G that he was set up to receive monthly statements, but that 
more are generated at the point 25 transactions are made. It said he should contact A 
about the disputed transaction. And how it wouldnt have been able to block the payment at 
the time because it had been made via A.  
The Co-op set up a complaint about Mr Gs concerns into how he was treated in branch. It 
said it would investigate the matter and provide any necessary feedback to the branch staff. 
Mr G referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He was still unhappy about the 
number of statements he was getting and that the Co-op hadnt stopped the fraudulent 
payment in December 2021 when it said it would. Mr G said when he attended the branch, 
the staff had masks on and a screen up  but still expected him to keep his distance  yet 
had been in close proximately to other customers. 
Mr G wanted an apology for the way the Co-op had treated him. He also wanted the monthly 
statements he requested for his mortgage application, and a refund of the £45. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Gs complaint but didnt uphold it. She said the Co-op had 
advised Mr G in December 2021 and April 2022 that he needed to dispute the fraudulent 
payment for £45 with A. She also explained that all statements had been sent to 
Mr G in line with the Co-ops processes. 
In terms of Mr Gs treatment in branch  our Investigator couldnt conclude, based on the 
available evidence, that the Co-op had done anything wrong. 
Mr G disagreed with our Investigators findings and asked for an Ombudsmans final 
decision. He maintained the Co-op had told him when he went into the branch in December 
2021 that the fraudulent payment for £45 would be stopped. He said it had a duty to protect 
its customers when alerted to such payments, and to stop them leaving the account. 
Mr G was very unhappy that our Investigator found no wrongdoing on the part of the Co-op 
about the way he had been treated when he visited the branch in April 2022. He said he was 
clearly being treated differently to other customers  and felt like he was seen as more of a 
Covid risk because of his race. Mr G said the Co-op would never admit this  so we should 
accept what he was saying and hold it to account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr G and Id like to assure him I 
havent made this decision lightly. In doing so, Ive considered all the evidence provided  
particularly the telephone call between Mr G and the Co-op from April 2022, and the 
telephone calls between Mr G and the Financial Ombudsman where he clearly outlines his 
concerns. And Id like to assure Mr G that if I dont mention a particular point, its not 
because I havent considered it, but Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be important 
to the outcome of this complaint.
I should also add that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it 
is here), I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is 
more likely than not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Statements
It seems Mr G now has the statements he needs for his mortgage application, but I can 
appreciate his concerns about receiving more statements than he wanted. The Co-op has 
explained why that is and how the process cant be changed. Whilst frustrating for Mr G, how 
regularly the Co-op sends statements to its customers is a commercial decision its entitled 
to make. Because of that, I cant say the Co-op has done anything wrong here, and Mr G 
hasnt raised any more points on this matter in response to the Investigators findings. So, I 
wont consider this further in this decision, instead Ill focus on the disputed payment from 
December 2021 and the way Mr G says Co-op staff treated him when he visited the branch 
in April 2022.  
Disputed payment
Mr G says he was told by branch staff in December 2021 that a payment for £45 hed made 
via A would be stopped. The Co-op has since told Mr G it wouldnt have been possible to 
stop the payment  and that he wouldve needed to contact A. The Co-op confirmed this 
position to us, and said it has no record of its interaction with Mr G in December 2021. 
Mr G is correct when he says a bank has a duty to protect its customers  and Id expect it to 
give appropriate guidance when notified of a fraudulent payment. I dont doubt Mr Gs 
recollection of what he was told by bank staff, but I dont know exactly what he asked and 
what he was told. And given its not possible for the Co-op to stop a payment made via A  I 
think, on balance, its unlikely Mr G wouldve been told the payment would be stopped. In 
addition, given the protection offered by A, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr G to have also contacted A about the payment as soon as he realised it was fraudulent, not just 
relying on the Co-op to intervene. 
Ive also noted that when Mr G spoke to the Co-op in April 2022, he was also given clear and 
helpful advice about how he could try and recover the £45 payment through A. Therefore, 
even if Mr G was given misleading or incorrect advice in December 2021  this has since 
been corrected and hes been told how he can try and recover the payment. 
So, taking all this into account, I dont have any basis to ask the Co-op to refund the £45 
payment to Mr G.
Treatment in branch 
Its clear from what Mr G has told us that he feels very strongly about how he was treated 
when in branch in April 2022. He also says the Co-op discriminated against him  and has 
specifically mentioned his race. I can totally understand why Mr G feels this way but having 
looked at all the evidence, and the wider surrounding circumstances, I dont think the Co-op 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why. 
We cant know beyond doubt exactly what motivated the Co-op staff or Mr G to act in the 
way they did when they interacted in April 2022. And I can understand Mr Gs point about 
the difficulties in obtaining conclusive evidence to confirm his interpretation of the situation, 
given the obvious sensitivities involved. So, Ive carefully considered Mr Gs testimony  and 
the statement provided by the Co-op to try and reach a fair and reasonable conclusion on 
this point.
Both accounts agree that Mr G clearly felt uncomfortable about the actions of staff. But while 
Mr G perceived this as staff treating him as if he was a Covid risk because of his race, the 
Co-ops recollection is that it explained to Mr G that the mask, screen and need to keep their 
distance, was necessary to protect him  as someone in the branch had Covid. 
Mr G feels strongly that Co-op staff treated him differently to other customers they werent 
distanced from. That might have been the case, but I dont have the evidence to show that 
was because of his race. It could equally be argued that Co-op staff were adhering to Covid 
protocols when talking to Mr G  and hadnt been when talking to other customers. So, whilst 
I fully appreciate Mr Gs strength of feeling, and completely understand how he perceived 
the situation as he did, Ive no reason to believe Co-op staff saw him as a Covid risk 
because of his race, and as such treated him differently to other customers. Rather, on 
balance, I think its more likely the staff were trying to protect Mr G. I hope it helps Mr G to 
know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns here.  
Im sorry Ive been unable to provide Mr G with the outcome he wanted. But while I 
appreciate his strength of feeling and can totally understand why hes wanted to pursue 
matters; I dont believe the Co-op acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. And 
so, I wont be asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman