DRN-2813440
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service that he received towards the end of his hire purchase 
agreement with Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MB), and the end of contract 
charges that were applied. 
What happened
On 24 March 2020 Mr W returned a car to the dealer that he had purchased on 5 May 2017 
through an agility hire purchase agreement with MB. The car was registered on 1 May 2017, 
which means it was brand new at the time of purchase. The hire purchase agreement was 
for £27,489 payable over 36 months.
Mr W explained that on the day he returned the car to the dealer, he pointed out the chip on 
the windscreen to the inspector. Mr W says, the inspector checked the car while he waited 
and returned to say that he didnt think the chip would be a problem, because he felt it met 
the MB Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) guidelines. At that point Mr W said he hadnt 
received any paperwork from MB relating to the inspection.
On 3 July 2020 Mr W says he received a letter from MB that was dated 29 April 2020, 
explaining that he owed £385 for damages to the car: 
£85 for damaged alloys; and
£300 for a chipped windscreen
Mr W complained to MB, initially disputing all the charges. He was also unhappy with the 
time MB took to advise him of the fees. However, after receiving video evidence of the car 
being checked over by the inspector, he conceded that the costs for the alloy damage was 
reasonable. Mr W however, continued to dispute the charge for windscreen damage. 
On 23 July 2020 MB sent their final response letter (FRL) to Mr W maintaining their position 
that he should pay the full costs.
Mr W referred to MBs VRS which says that a windscreen chip no larger than 5mm and no 
more than two chips are acceptable as long as theyre not in the drivers line of vision. Mr W 
decided to offer to pay £32 for the chip on the windscreen which is the amount advised in the 
VRS as the cost of a specialist repair. In total Mr W offered to pay £117 for the alloy damage 
and the chip on the windscreen.
Mr W explained that MB acknowledged his email, however on 13 August 2020 he received a 
letter from a collections agency acting on behalf of MB, requesting that he pay the £385 to 
prevent this event being marked on his credit file. To avoid this Mr W paid the amount in full. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us here. One of our investigators found partially in his favour. 
The investigator concluded that he should pay for the alloy damage, but not for the 
windscreen chip because there is nothing to say it was more than 5mm.
Unhappy with the investigators view, MB has asked that this complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. MB explained that they felt the charges for the windscreen 
damage fell outside of their fair wear and tear guidelines. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MB is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr W must return the car in line with 
MBs VRS. It confirms that an inspection will be carried out by trained technicians at a 
nominated centre. The agreement goes on to set out the acceptable return standards, 
beyond which it allows MB to charge for the costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing the 
vehicle, or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle.  
Following their inspection of the car, MB have outlined the areas they deemed as being 
beyond acceptable wear and tear along with the related charge.
The right-hand front alloy charged at £85.00
The windscreen chip charged at £300.00
To support their findings MB have provided the video report of the inspection that took place 
when the was returned.
The damage to alloys
The VRS says that minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim 
edge or wheel face is acceptable damage.
Having seen the inspection video I think its fair to conclude that a greater area than 25mm 
has been damaged on the front drivers side alloy. I note that Mr W has also accepted the 
charge following his viewing of the video. 
I acknowledge that Mr W believed the inspector referred to most of the damage as corrosion 
and felt that a lot of it was probably from black tyre paint. Having viewed the video, Im 
satisfied with the conclusion of the inspector in relation to the damaged alloy. When he 
mentioned corrosion, I found it likely within the context of the situation, that he was referring 
to a specific section of rim damage. Its very likely that the rest of the damage, would also 
have totalled more than 25mm. So, I wont be asking MB to do anything more in relation to 
this concern.
Damage to the windscreenThe VRS explains that chips on windscreens, which are less than 5mm, providing they dont 
obscure the drivers line of vision, and to a maximum of two per windscreen are acceptable. 
Mr W disputes MBs findings on the size of the chip. 
Having considered the video myself Its clear to me that there was only one chip on the 
windscreen which isnt in the drivers line of vision. And I dont see that MB are contesting 
this view. However, I cannot determine with any certainty the size of the chip on the 
windscreen. Had the inspector placed a measuring tool alongside the chip, to help the 
viewer identify its size this would have helped to avoid any disputes. In the circumstances, 
as Im unable to determine the exact size of the chip Im unable to say if the chip was 
unacceptable or not. I think this is an issue where the onus should be on MB to demonstrate 
clearly why they believe the damage is not acceptable. In this instance they havent done so.  
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that it was fair to expect Mr W to pay for the 
windscreen damage. So, Ill be asking MB to refund to Mr W the amount he paid towards the 
chipped windscreen.
The late notification
MB notified Mr W of the charges over three months after he returned the car. Although Mr W 
was at the dealer when the inspection took place, he said he was told to wait inside. Mr W 
explained that he hadnt received any paperwork in relation to the inspection prior to 3 July 
2020, which was around three months after returning the car. MB has recently confirmed to 
me that their delay in sending the notification to Mr W was due to the national restrictions in 
place at the time and the impact this had on them.
When Mr W received notification of the damages along with an invoice, its likely this would 
have caused some distress and surprise for him. However, in the circumstances I cant say 
that MB acted unfairly as the circumstances facing them at the time which added to the 
delay were unforeseeable. I think a reasonable person would accept some degree of 
disruption to their service given the unprecedented circumstances facing businesses at that 
point in 2020. So I wont be asking MB to do anything in relation to this.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and instruct Mercedes Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to do the following:
refund £300 that Mr W paid for the chip on the windscreen;
remove any adverse information that may have been recorded with the credit 
reference agencies in respect of the damage.
Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK Limited should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all 
refunds calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman