DRN-3684105
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited T/A Halifax mis-sold her a 
home insurance policy. She said she wasnt made aware of the extent of cover for personal 
belongings and this impacted on her when she had to make a claim.
What happened
Miss B has been a longstanding home insurance customer of Halifax since around 2012. In 
September 2021, she received an invitation to renew her policy for a further year. Miss B 
thought the renewal quote was expensive. So, she compared the market online to determine 
the cost of comparable cover with other insurers.
On 29 September 2021, Miss B contacted Halifax by telephone to discuss her renewal 
invitation. When she asked it to apply a loyalty discount to reflect the number of years shed 
held cover, Halifax explained that it could discount her policy by around £100. It also offered 
Miss B a cheaper alternative policy as it stated that her policy was in the process of being 
withdrawn.
During Miss Bs telephone call with Halifax, she was informed about the differences between 
the two policies shed been quoted for. When asked if she owned any high-risk items worth 
more than £2000, Miss B confirmed that she didnt own any item that would be considered a 
high-risk item under the terms of the contents insurance policy. 
Miss B asked if Halifax could contact her later the same day as she wanted to discuss the 
quotations with a family member. When Halifax telephoned Miss B to finalise her policy 
purchase, she explained that she was due to take possession of a ring belonging to a late 
relative. She said she estimated the value of the ring to be worth around £10000 and asked 
Halifax if she needed to add this item onto her policy separately. 
Halifax informed Miss B that it couldnt give advice but explained the limitations on cover 
across the policies available. Halifax explained that any item worth more than £2000 would 
need to be separately covered and specified on the policy both within and outside the home 
otherwise it wouldnt be insured. 
Miss B asked Halifax if she could add the ring onto her policy at a later date when she was in 
possession of the item. Halifax stated that Miss B could do so, but this would involve a call 
from her when she was ready to amend her policy. It also stated this would incur an 
additional charge. Miss B instructed Halifax to finalise her purchase of the cheaper policy 
without including the ring. Halifax said it had no record of Miss B making contact 
subsequently in order to add her late relatives ring to her policy.
In early January 2022, Miss B contacted Halifax to report the loss of her ring and make a 
claim under her policy. She informed Halifax that the ring had, most likely, been lost on 
boxing day while removing rubbish from her home.
Halifax informed Miss B that her ring wasnt covered under her policy because cover for 
personal belongings was limited to £1000 per item. Miss B wasnt happy with this and 
complained to Halifax. She thought shed been mis-sold the policy shed taken out  she 
said her previous policy had offered personal belongings cover for up to £3000 per item and 
she thought her ring was covered in the event of its loss. Miss B asked Halifax to honour her 
claim for the loss of her ring up to the value shed declared during her telephone call in 
September of the previous year.
Halifax investigated Miss Bs complaint, but didnt uphold it. It declined to settle her claim 
and said it had provided clear information about the extent of cover before Miss B had taken 
out her policy and following its inception in the policy documentation it had sent. Halifax also 
said the policy had been sold on a non-advised basis and that Miss B had had opportunity to 
satisfy herself that the policy was suitable to her requirements. So, it said it hadnt mis-sold 
insurance or done anything wrong.
Being dissatisfied with Halifaxs response to her complaint, Miss B referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and thought Halifax had provided clear 
information about the policy features and exclusions at the point of sale and in the policy 
documents it had issued. They said there was no evidence that Miss B had instructed 
Halifax to add her ring onto her policy. And, overall, they werent persuaded that Halifax had 
mis-sold the policy Miss B had purchased. They didnt recommend upholding this complaint. 
But Miss B disagreed with our investigators view of her complaint and asked for it to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is impartial, we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint, and we dont regulate or punish businesses. Where the information Ive got is 
incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I must base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. 
Id like to thank Miss B and Halifax for the level of detail contained within their submissions. 
Ive read and considered all the information provided and, if I havent specifically referred to 
a point that Miss B or Halifax have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision 
will focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an approach that reflects the informal 
nature of this service.
I can appreciate why Miss B is disappointed with our investigators view of her complaint. 
Ive no doubt the loss of her ring was very distressing  this was an item of significant 
sentimental and financial value. It must have been doubly so when she was informed that 
her policy didnt cover the loss. However, while I sympathise with Miss B, the issue that I 
must determine is whether I think Halifax misled or mis-sold this policy to her, or made a 
mistake, such that it needs to put matters right. In thinking about this, Ive considered 
things from both sides. 
As Ive set out in the background to this complaint, Miss B has been a longstanding 
customer of Halifax. She took her current policy out after speaking with Halifax in depth 
about the policy features and the extent of cover it was able to offer. I say this because, as 
part of my review of Miss Bs complaint, Ive listened to over 2 hours of call recordings 
relating to the sale of this policy. These calls took place on 29 September 2021 and appear 
to be with the same call handler.
Miss B has disclosed health difficulties to our service, which she says can affect her ability to 
process and understand information. I can see that she made Halifax aware of her health during call recordings and Im satisfied the call handler took reasonable steps to simplify and 
repeat the information Miss B was given to aid her understanding. Her tone and manner is 
clear and patient during the calls. And the impression I get from the call recordings our 
service has received is that Miss B was able to understand the information she was provided 
 she asked further questions to clarify when necessary.
Its clear from the content of the call recordings that Halifax has provided to our service that 
the sale of Miss Bs policy was conducted on a non-advised basis. I say this because Halifax 
didnt recommend the policy or provide Miss B with any advice as to the suitability of the 
cover she was selecting. There are occasions during the call recordings when Miss B asks 
for advice regarding whether she should declare the ring and Halifaxs response is that, 
while it cant give advice, it can provide information about the level of cover available, which 
is what it did.
The fact that the sale was non-advised is crucial as this means Halifax didnt need to make 
sure that the policy it sold was suitable for Miss Bs needs. It had a responsibility to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. This is important because it enables a 
policyholder to make an informed decision about whether the policy provides adequate 
cover. Its the policyholders responsibility for ensuring theyve purchased the cover they 
require. And this is why insurers offer a cooling off period  during which a policyholder can 
cancel they policy theyve taken out without a financial penalty.  
Having listened carefully to the available call recordings, Im satisfied that Halifax informed 
Miss B very clearly, on multiple occasions, that her ring wouldnt be covered under the 
policy unless she separately specified it and insured it as a high value item. It also explained 
in extensive detail the key differences in cover between the two policies it was quoting for 
Miss B.
Halifax was aware that Miss B wasnt yet in possession of the ring. So, it informed her that 
she could contact it again once shed acquired the ring to amend her policy to include it. 
This isnt unusual because cover for high value items, or cover for contents away from the 
home, is typically always a policy add-on offered by insurers. Because its an extension of 
cover it will attract an additional premium as the risk the insurer is being asked to take on 
will have increased.
Im satisfied that Halifax provided sufficient information to Miss B that her policy didnt 
include cover for the ring at the point of purchase. And I think it ought to have been clear in 
Miss Bs mind that the ring wouldnt be covered unless she added it to her policy as a 
specified high value item either at this date or on a future occasion. 
Halifax has provided evidence to our service which persuades me that it posted a new 
business pack, which included policy documentation, to Miss B following the policy 
purchase. I can see that these documents were correctly addressed to Miss B. I say this 
because the address it used for corresponding with her matches the address she provided 
our service when she referred her complaint.
Miss B told Barclays and our service she didnt receive the policy documentation Halifax 
says it sent her. But theres no evidence that this documentation was returned undelivered to 
Halifax. I can see that Miss B hasnt suggested any reason why its likely the letter wasnt 
correctly delivered to her address. And she hasnt said why she didnt contact Halifax to 
chase up any missing policy documentation, which shed have been used to receiving each 
year following the renewal of her policy since 2012 when she became a customer. It may be that there were problems with the post, or some other reason Miss B didnt receive 
the letter. But I havent seen any evidence of anything like this and I cant put aside the 
evidence I have, which persuades me that its most likely the policy documentation was 
correctly sent and delivered to Miss B. 
Having considered the policy documentation, Im satisfied that it outlines in unambiguous, 
intelligible terms that items costing more than £2000 need to be specified if they are to be 
insured. This isnt misleading.
The policy states that the total cover limit away from the home is £1000 and goes on to say:
You do not have any individual items worth more than £2000 that you want to insure on this 
policy.
Its therefore clear that Miss B chose not to include cover for any specified high value items 
and that cover for personal belongings was limited to £1000 per item. 
In the overall circumstances, Im persuaded that Halifax provided sufficient information to 
Miss B in the post inception documentation it posted to her regarding the policy terms and 
conditions and the level of cover her policy provided.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Halifax doesnt have a record of Miss B 
contacting it to request that it separately insure her ring. I can see that Miss B hasnt 
disputed this. Because this ring was never added to the policy its loss isnt covered. I 
therefore cant direct Halifax to settle a claim in such circumstances. 
Miss B has referred to her previous policy with Halifax having a £3000 limit for the loss of a 
single item. Had Miss B continued to insure her house under her previous policy her ring still 
wouldnt have been insured as its value considerably exceeded the £3000 limit. 
Having considered the sales process, and the policy terms and conditions, Im satisfied 
Halifax provided information to Miss B in a clear, fair and not misleading way information to 
enable her to make an informed choice about whether the cover shed purchased was 
suitable This means I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B. But I cant fairly find that Halifax made an error. It informed 
her that any high value items exceeding £2000 in value needed to be separately insured 
under her policy. And, as her didnt insure her lost ring separately, I cant conclude that 
Halifax acted unreasonably in declining to settle her claim. Im therefore not going to direct 
Halifax do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman