DRN-3977093
The complaint
Miss M complains that Equifax Limited trading as Equifax cant record her full surname on 
her credit file. 
What happened
Miss Ms told us shes been on the electoral roll since 2017. Since 2020 Miss M has raised 
concerns with Equifax on several occasion as her credit file doesnt reflect that shes 
registered to vote. Miss M explains shes concerned this may impact her ability to obtain 
credit. 
Last year, Miss M raised the issue with Equifax again. Equifax advised that due to systems 
limitations the surname field only has a limited number of characters. As Miss Ms surname 
is longer than the maximum characters it can input, it means she isnt recorded as being on 
the electoral roll. Equifax offered to use an amended version of Miss Ms surname and 
manually add her to the electoral roll. Equifax also said Miss M could add a Notice of 
Correction to her credit file that would let potential lenders know about the issue when her 
credit file is checked. 
Equifax sent Miss M a final response and offered her £100 to resolve the complaint. But 
Equifax confirmed theres no facility at present to include Miss Ms full surname. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ms case. They thought Equifax had made a 
fair offer to resolve Miss Ms complaint. Miss M asked to appeal and said she didnt agree 
that Equifax had dealt with her case fairly. Miss M also said a Notice of Correction could be 
used by potential lenders to refuse credit. Miss M confirmed that she hadnt been denied 
credit but is concerned about potential applications she may make in the future. As Miss M 
asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I can understand why Miss M is upset that Equifax cant use her full surname to match 
electoral roll information on her credit file. I appreciate its important to Miss M that her 
surname is correctly shown and why shes concerned about the impact to potential credit 
applications she may make. But I need to explain that we cant force a business to change 
the way its systems operate. And, here, Equifax has advised theres a systems limitation 
thats causing the problem Miss Ms raised. 
Equifax has explained it has a systems limitation whereby it has a maximum character limit 
for surnames. And Miss Ms surname goes beyond the character limit Equifaxs systems 
use. So whilst I understand why Miss M is frustrated and wants Equifax to include her full 
name, Im satisfied its system isnt able to do so. 
Equifax has advised it can use a shortened version of Miss Ms name and manually 
intervene to show shes on the on the electoral roll. In addition, Equifax has confirmed Miss 
M can add a Notice of Correction to her credit file that will let potential lenders know about 
the issues raised. I understand the options Equifax has given dont resolve the underlying 
issue. But I think the options represent a reasonable work around solution that Equifax is 
currently able to offer. 
Miss M raised concerns that adding a Notice of Correction to her credit file could impact 
future applications she makes. Equifax says a Notice of Correction can cause businesses to 
complete a manual review of applications that are made. Lenders will see a Notice of 
Correction, but they are still obliged to treat potential customers fairly. In my view, Equifax 
has offered a reasonable option to ensure potential lenders are aware there is an issue with 
its systems that means it cant include Miss Ms full name. 
In response to our investigator, Miss M confirmed she hasnt been declined for credit as a 
result of the issues raised. I understand Miss M is concerned about future applications she 
may make. But we cant award compensation for something that hasnt happened. If Miss M 
finds that applications are unfairly declined as a direct result of how her surname is shown 
by Equifax, she will the option of raising a complaint about it at that time.
Equifax offered Miss M £100 to apologise for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
systems issues in relation to her surname. Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but Im satisfied 
the offer fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to her and the 
problems raised. As Im satisfied Equifax dealt with Miss Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it 
to increase the award or do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Equifax has already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman