DRN-3830322
The complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express (Amex) placed late payment markers on his account and then defaulted 
it.
What happened
Mr G had an Amex credit card. In March 2020, the balance was £11,139 and the limit was
£12,000. Mr Gs income was affected by the pandemic. In March 2020, Amex agreed a
three-month payment holiday under the FCAs pandemic support scheme. This was
extended for a second period of three months in July 2020. No payments were made to the
credit card between March 2020 and October 2020 (other than one payment of £214.21 in
May 2020). On 7 November 2020, Amex sent Mr G a Notice of Default which asked for
payment of £854 within 14 days. The balance was £12,797.05. On 30 November 2020,
Amex wrote to Mr G to say that because of his financial difficulties, the interest rate was set
to zero and his account was to be passed to a specialist agency. A default was registered.
Mr G paid off the account in March 2021.
Mr G complained. He said the late payment markers werent fair because he was on a
payment holiday at the time. And the default was also unfair as hed not been told about it.
And Amex had told him to ignore any regulatory letters or demands for payment. He said he
was having trouble getting a mortgage because of the marks on his credit file.
Amex discussed Mr Gs complaint with him on the phone and issued a summary resolution
letter. Amexs notes of the call said they told Mr G that the late payment markers were
correct and the account was correctly terminated. So, they said no changes to his credit file
would be made.
Mr G brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that the late payment markers should
be removed because Mr G was in an agreed payment holiday for six months. But that was
the maximum allowed and after that time, the payments missed were still owed, and so by 
October 2020, Mr G was six months in arrears. And so  he said Amex were correct to
default his account. Amex had written to Mr G with a Notice of Default - so it was clear what
was going to happen.
Mr G disagreed. He said that the payments missed when on a payment holiday shouldnt
have been taken into account - so he wasnt six months in arrears. And in the conversations
hed had with Amex, there wasnt any mention of a default. He had been told repeatedly to
ignore any warnings. He hadnt received any text messages. Mr G asked that an 
ombudsman look at his complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
There are two aspects to Mr Gs complaint  the missed payment markers in 2020 and the
later default  in November 2020.
Missed payment markers: In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced
guidance to lenders in response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All
lenders, including Amex, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements,
including credit cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a
total of two payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be
suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although
interest would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the
end of October 2020.
Mr Gs income was affected by the pandemic and I can see that he was given a payment
holiday in March 2020 for three months; and then after that, another one for another three
months. So  Amex did what they should have done here. But they then marked Mr Gs
credit file with late payment markers  which, under the scheme, they shouldnt have done.
Mr G didnt make a payment in March 2020 and I see that Amex have argued that this
should be shown as a late payment. But equally, Amex havent shown us any
correspondence showing when the payment holiday started, so I will assume it included the
March 2020 payment. And so  I agree, the late payment markers should be removed for
the period between March 2020 and November 2020.
October/November 2020: Because Mr G had had the maximum payment holidays allowed
under the FCA scheme, the other option was for Amex to consider further support which
could be used where customers were in longer term financial difficulty.
Here, the relevant guidance is that businesses have an obligation to treat customers in
financial difficulty sympathetically and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that
businesses like Amex should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance and due
consideration. For example, a business might suspend or waive interest, accept lower
payments or defer them and allow customers more time to repay their debt.
Turning to what happened in October 2020 and thereafter. I can see that Mr G hadnt made
any payments to his account from March 2020 up to and including November 2020. Amex
sent him a Notice of Default on 7 November 2020. This asked for payment of £854 within 14
days. And then on 30 November 2020, Amex wrote to Mr G to say that as he was in financial
difficulty they were reducing his interest rate to zero and transferring his account to a
specialist agency to manage.
I considered the letter dated 30 November 2020. For Amex to judge Mr G to be in financial
difficulty, they wouldve had to complete an income and expenditure affordability. But I cant
see this was done. But even if they had, an option wouldve been to agree to a payment plan
with no repayments (and zero interest) for a period  which wouldve been consistent with
the FCAs guidance - rather than going to a default. But I cant see this was considered. Nor
was the letter clear about what the specialist agency would do  it may have been a debt
collection agency or a third-party agency to help Mr G in his situation.
Communications between firms and customers should be clear and not misleading  thats
also laid down by the FCA. And so - Ive reviewed the contact notes on Mr Gs file with
Amex  and in all honesty, they arent clear. They say that Mr Gs payment holiday was due
to end in October 2020. There was contact by phone or by webchat between Mr G and
Amex on 27 September 2020, 29 September 2020, 29 October 2020, and 30 October 2020.
But the notes dont say what was said or discussed. We asked Amex several questions
about what happened and asked to see:
- letters or emails relating to the payment holidays, and what was sent to Mr G when
they started and then ended  I wanted to see what Mr G was told about his account
then, and what he needed to do. For example, what was he told about bringing his
payments up to date.- Any text messages sent to Mr G. I wanted to see what Mr G was told about his
account and what he needed to do.
- Any income & expenditure form completed in October 2020  to see what Mr Gs
situation was then. I say this because we would have expected Amex to understand
this before deciding to default his account or help him with a payment plan.
- We asked to listen to the calls between Amex and Mr G. Mr G has said he was told
to ignore any regulatory letters or demands for payment.
Unfortunately, Amex havent been able to provide any of this information. And therefore, I
must make a provisional decision based on the balance of probability of what happened.
And because Amex havent been able to provide evidence of what they told Mr G  Im
persuaded to accept Mr Gs version of events. That is, that he wasnt advised about the
potential for default; or about the arrears; and that he was told to ignore regulatory letters or
demands for payment.
And therefore  Im minded to ask Amex to remove the default from Mr Gs credit file. Our
process is to invite comments from both Mr G and Amex  and if Amex come forward with
evidence of the communications with Mr G, I may change my view. 
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr G accepted the removal of the default and late payment markers from his credit file. He 
also argued that he should get some compensation for:
- the stress and inconvenience caused by what happened.
- He said that because of the effect on his credit file, the price of a new mortgage went 
up. He showed us that an agreement in principle (AIP) from a high street lender for a 
rate of 3.09% fixed was declined with the comment the application had not passed 
the credit score. So, he said he had to take a mortgage with a rate of 5.04% fixed; 
and had to contribute another £20,000 as a deposit. So  he says that Amex should 
pay the increased cost of the mortgage.
Amex had no further information to add. We asked them if they would pay compensation of 
£200  and they agreed to that.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr G has argued and looked at the papers he sent us. For me to 
decide that Amex should pay the increased costs of his new mortgage, I must be certain that 
the reason that the high street lender declined the mortgage was entirely due to the marks 
on Mr Gs credit file. But what the lender has said is he failed their credit score  I consider 
this means that he failed the internal credit score  which would mean a combination of (for 
example) credit file markers; as well as bank account activity; income multiples; loan to value 
ratio; and other factors.  So  Im not persuaded that it was solely due to marks on Mr Gs 
credit file that caused the declined mortgage.
But we do accept that in broader terms, Mr G suffered distress and inconvenience. We proposed to Amex that this should be £200, and Amex agreed.
Therefore, my final decision is as detailed in the provisional decision, but with the added 
payment of compensation of £200.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express must:
- Remove the late payment markers from Mr Gs credit file from March 2020 to November 
2020.
- Remove the default from Mr Gs credit file.
- Pay compensation of £200 for stress and inconvenience. In responding to this decision, Mr 
G should advise how he wishes this to be paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman