DRN-4267428
The complaint
Ms M complains about how The Baxendale Insurance Company DAC has handled her claim 
under her Transit and Storage Insurance policy.
What happened
In late 2021 Ms M arranged for her goods to be stored and then transported as shed moved 
abroad. She said she paid for additional protection for some of her goods, and for an 
unpacking service. But when her goods arrived in June 2022 the additional protective 
packaging hadnt been used, and several items were damaged, lost or completely 
destroyed. She said some of the packaging was also water damaged, and she was left to 
unpack the goods herself. Ms M said she was told shed to make her insurance claim within 
seven days, which was difficult given the quantity of goods she needed to unpack. Ms Ms 
insurance claim for the damaged and lost goods totalled £13,212.50.
Ms M said she was told by the removal company that all the goods were covered except for 
her racing medals. But this hasnt been the case and several months on she is still trying to 
get a resolution to her insurance claim. Ms M also said she hadnt been sent the policy 
documents at inception of the policy. She complained to Baxendale.
Baxendale said theyd sent Ms M the policy documents on several occasions, and shed 
agreed to the policy terms and conditions. They said theyd considered Ms Ms claim and 
had made interim payments. Theyd also asked her for additional information about some of 
the items claimed for. Baxendale said while Ms M had sent the discharge form for the first 
interim payment of £4,670, she hadnt sent the form for the release of the other payment. 
And she hadnt sent the information theyd asked for about the outstanding damaged items. 
Ms M wasnt happy with Baxendales response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said the insurance claim hadnt yet been fully settled and so could only 
consider the settlement to date. She said the claim had been settled in accordance with the 
policy terms and conditions, and for the remaining items Baxendale had asked Ms M to 
provide further information which she considered to be fair and reasonable. But our 
investigator said there had been unnecessary delay and conflicting information which had 
caused distress and inconvenience to Ms M at a difficult time. She asked Baxendale to pay 
Ms M £600 to compensate her for this.
Ms M didnt agree she asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman to decide.
A provisional decision was issued in June 2023 that said:
its clear that Ms M isnt happy about the way in which the removal company and also
Baxendale as insurers handled her claim. But as our investigator explained its only the
insurance aspect of her complaint that can be brought to us to consider. I can understand  
that in itself is a source of frustration for Ms M. But Ms Ms concerns about the removal 
companys negligence or claims in relation to uninsured losses wouldnt be a matter this 
service could consider as its outside of our jurisdiction.
I can understand Ms Ms frustration in having to go through a lengthy and upsetting series of 
events because of the damage and loss. Especially as she has moved to a different country 
and is suffering with health issues. The damage and loss to household and personal 
possessions, and items of sentimental value will have been distressing. But its unfortunately 
an inevitable part of an involved insurance claim of this nature, that discussions, justification
and evidence for claims need to be provided for individual items before an insurance
company can indemnify policy holders for evidenced loss. I understand that such a process 
can take time and cause additional frustration for policy holders.
Whilst the claim has been ongoing for some time and there are a number of issues and 
circumstances to consider. I think the key issues for my decision are firstly whether 
Baxendale applied the terms and conditions of Ms Ms Transit and Storage Insurance policy 
in a fair and reasonable manner. And secondly whether Baxendale generally acted fairly and 
reasonably in the handling of her claim.
Ms M has said she wasnt sent the policy documentation, but Baxendale has shown the 
documents were made available through a hyperlink sent to Ms M in an email in October 
2021 and again in early November 2021. In signing the acceptance form Ms M would have 
confirmed shed read the insurance guide and understood the terms and conditions of the 
policy. I can see Ms M signed the acceptance form in November 2021. So, Im satisfied Ms 
M had the policy terms and conditions.
Policy terms
The policy would have provided cover from the time the household goods came into the care 
and control of the removal company until they were redelivered to the relevant destination 
address. This is subject to certain limits, conditions and exclusions. When her goods arrived 
Ms M said the containers showed signs of water damage. She said shed paid an additional 
sum for wooden crates to be used for some of her items but these items had been shipped 
in cardboard containers. Also glassware and other delicate items hadnt been sufficiently 
protected in transit and had been completely destroyed. Ms M said she was given an 
unrealistic period to make her claim given the number of containers, 93 boxes and six 
suitcases and the extent of damage which was involved. On contacting the removal 
company, she was told she needed to make her claim within seven days. She said shed 
asked for an extension as she felt this was insufficient time for her to go through
everything and to make a full claim, but this was rejected.
The relevant policy terms here are:
Claims notification
Claims must be made in writing (including e-mail) to the removal company in first instance 
within 7 days after delivery by the removal company or their agents
And that
An extension to the time limit for reporting claims maybe agreed in writing prior to the 
commencement of the services."
As outlined above the policy terms do say that any claim has to be made within seven days, 
and any extension asked for before the commencement of the services. So, I cant say 
Baxendale acted unfairly in applying these terms. And Ms M did make her claim within the 
seven days. I think this would have been difficult given the volume of items to be unpacked and considered. But an extension could have been arranged, given the value and number of 
items being transported before the commencement of the removal.
Settlement of claim
In December 2021 Ms M provided an itemised breakdown of the goods to be transported, 
including the amount and estimated replacement value. And I can see Ms M in her insurance 
claim listed over 100 items she said were destroyed, damaged or missing. And referenced 
them to the December itemised list with the estimated value. Ms Ms insurance claim was 
valued at £13212.50.
The policy says: 
WHAT IS INSURED? Household goods, furniture, personal effects, motor
vehicles/boats/caravans, antiques or objects of art, and items listed on the proposal form 
and packed by the removal company excluding items specifically listed under the terms of 
the policy and in this document which Baxendale will not insure. Cost and expenses incurred 
as a result of shipping line declaring general average.
And also
WHAT IS NOT INSURED? Jewellery, watches, smart watches, sunglasses, precious
stones, Money, coins, bullion, deeds, bonds, securities or stamp or medal collections or 
similar, furs, perfumes, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, beer wine or spirits, foodstuffs,
medicines, drugs, perishable or corrosive goods, paints, pressurised containers, explosives, 
firearms, flammables, flat pack furniture, pornography, any illegally held item(s) livestock, 
animals, plants, human or animal remains or ashes, mobile phones or tablets, memory sticks 
SD cards, information contained in any document, loss of use, loss of production, loss of 
amenity, loss of enjoyment or any other indirect or consequential loss. Please see policy 
wording for full list of exclusions. Goods that are not packed by the removal company 
(Owner packed goods). Loss or damage caused by excluded risks. Goods which are not 
subject to the removal services."
Having considered Ms Ms claim there are a number of items listed that wouldnt be covered 
under the policy for example coins, mobile phones or tablets, memory sticks and SD cards. I 
know Ms M said she was only told that her racing medals wouldnt be covered, but the policy 
terms and conditions allow for the approach taken by Baxendale. So, I cant say that it was 
unfair or unreasonable for Baxendale to have applied their policy terms in excluding certain 
items.
Baxendale made an interim payment for 88 items listed in Ms Ms claim, and Ms M returned 
the discharge form, so I wont comment further on these items as theyve been accepted and 
agreed. In total £4,670.
Further Interim payment
In the ongoing discussions I can see that Baxendale agreed a further £463 that was made 
up of the following items:
Divan 200
Souvenirs 88
Remote 10
Coasters 18
Storage Jars 12Casserole 
dishes90
Treasure box 45
Baxendale accepted 22 souvenirs at a value of £4 each, in total £88. And they asked Ms M 
to provide details about a mattress and framed certificates. Ms M provided details of the cost 
of the divan, £282.30 and the cost of cleaning the mattress £362.30, which Baxendale also 
accepted. Ms M showed the cost to replace the framed certificates would be £785.
Baxendale said the limit for this item under the policy was £600. I can see from Ms Ms
itemised list of items and their values show that shed insured the framed certificates for 
£600. The relevant policy terms are:
"Sum insured
Baxendales liability to you will not exceed the total amount you have insured your goods 
for."
Underinsurance/Average
Your goods must be insured for their full replacement value at destination. If the sum insured 
is less than the full replacement cost at destination your claim maybe reduced to reflect the 
amount by which you are underinsured.
So I dont think Baxendale acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying the sum insured limit 
for the framed certificates. From my calculations this now meant Baxendale had agreed to:
Mattress cleaning 362.5
Divan 282.3
Remote 10
Coasters 18
Storage Jars 12
Casserole dishes 90
Treasure box 45
Framed 
certificates600
Souvenirs 88
Which I calculate to be £1,507.80, Baxendale had offered Ms M in settlement a payment of 
£1429, which I dont think covers all the items that had been agreed to. Ms M disputed the 
amount as she calculated the items to a value of £1,756.80 so she didnt return the 
discharge form.
Ms M said she provided details for the cost of replacing the framed certificates - £785,
missing cables £50 which she said had been previously agreed, souvenirs £92 and a mop 
for £10. As explained above the sum insured for the framed certificates was £600.
Baxendale has asked for information about the missing cables in connection with another 
claimed for item, and I can see the mop had already been included in the agreed interim 
payment of £4,670. Ms M said Baxendale had agreed an item, shed valued at £500 should 
be included in with the souvenirs so an additional £4 was owed, but I can see this item was 
considered to be a coin and therefore excluded from the claim under the policy terms.
After further discussions Ms M accepted £600 for the framed certificate but still said the 
payment should include the missing cables £50, the mop £10 and the souvenirs £92, making a total of £1571.80. But as Ive detailed, Ive calculated the items agreed amounted to 
£1,507.80. As the interim payment has yet to be been issued, I would ask Baxendale to 
review the items theyve agreed to settle in line with my findings.
This does leave a number of items still outstanding. Baxendale say theyve adequately 
explained the basis of their offers, especially as to the items which remain outstanding. 
Theyd given sufficient detail about the information thats required for the remaining 
outstanding items to be considered. And I can see theyve detailed the items, what 
information they need from Ms M and have highlighted to het the policy terms that show their 
reasoning for needing this information. Its for Ms M and Baxendale to reach an agreed 
settlement for these remaining items, after which if Ms M is still dissatisfied, she can raise a 
further complaint.
Service issues
Ms M said the process has been distressing and time consuming and she felt under
pressure to accept payments offered. Ive noted the volume of e-mail communication
between the parties and note the significant number of items being claimed for and
discussed. I can also see that Ms M challenged Baxendale about the offered interim
payment of £1,429 being incorrect, but I cant see that they considered her concerns or 
reassured her by checking their offer. I think this caused Ms M further distress and
inconvenience and caused her to lose faith in Baxendales assessment of her claim. Which I 
think is evident in the email correspondence after the interim payment was offered. I dont 
think the £1,429 offered was correct as I dont consider the amount reflected the value of the 
settlement agreed for these items. And by Baxendale failing to consider Ms Ms concerns 
over the accuracy of the settlement offer this has caused unnecessary further distress.
So, I do think Baxendale could have provided a better service and support in what was an 
already distressing situation. I think the lack of consideration given to Ms Ms concerns about 
how her claim was being assessed has caused her additional distress and inconvenience at 
a time when she not only had moved to another country but she was also suffering from 
health issues. Our investigator said Baxendale should pay Ms M £600 to reflect this service 
failure and the additional stress and inconvenience caused. But I think £750 would be more 
reflective of the impact this has had on Ms M.
Responses to my provisional decision
Baxendale hasnt commented or asked for any further representations to be considered.
Ms M has said in summary:
only one interim payment has been received;
the policy terms in particular Clause 11 which she says state that Baxendale should 
pay for inspection of her damaged items should be adhered to;
her complaint is about the entire claim which has yet to be fully settled;
the actions of all the parties involved should be considered under her complaint as 
they are linked businesses;
the hyperlinks referred to in the October and November 2021 emails didnt link to the 
insurers terms and conditions but only to the removers website;
that it should have only been a requirement to confirm that there was a claim for 
damage and loss within 7 days with her being able to send the detailed paperwork 
later;
Baxendales terms and conditions clearly state that they appoint the remover as the 
claims handler and that the remover processes and settles the claims. And as the removers said that it was only her racing medals that werent covered this should be 
honoured; 
Baxendale had agreed there were 23 souvenirs therefore £4 x 23 = £92 and not £88,
Baxendale made her get a quote for her frames despite them being insured for £600 
even after shed repeatedly stated that a quote wasnt needed;
the claims handler agreed to pay £50 for the cables;
the mop wasnt paid for as there were two items, one broom and one mop each £10;
shed never agreed that an item valued at £500 should be treated as a souvenir 
valued at £4
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering all of the evidence, and Ms Ms comments, if I havent commented on any 
specific point, I dont mean any disrespect only that I dont believe its affected what I think is 
the right outcome.
Policy terms and conditions
I have considered Ms Ms comment about the hyperlinks in the emails sent to her in October 
2021 and November 2021 which do take her to the removers website. But as I referred to in 
my provisional decision Ms M doesnt dispute signing the acceptance form in early 
November 2021. There is a link to the insurers terms and conditions in this document: 
When you sign the Acceptance Form and Insurance Form, you are confirming that you:  
have read the Insurance Guide which you can view here and understood the terms and 
conditions of the insurance policy/policies you are buying"
And Ms M in signing the acceptance form confirmed shed read the insurance guide and 
understood the terms and conditions of the policy. So, I remain satisfied that Ms M had the 
policy terms and conditions.
The policy states:
Claims are dealt with by our appointed claims handlers. In some cases this might be a 
dedicated claims handling agents or in some cases the remover. In either case they have 
our full authority to deal with claims on our behalf. 
While we can consider the actions of other parties when they act as agents for Baxendale 
this is only with the insurance aspect of the complaint, which can in itself be a source of 
frustration. As Ive previously stated concerns about the removal companys negligence or 
claims in relation to uninsured losses wouldnt be a matter this service could consider as its 
outside of our jurisdiction. Its only the insurance aspect that can be directed through this 
service.
Baxendales policy says:
The remover acts as agents for us under the terms of an agency agreement. Under the 
terms of the agency agreement the remover is authorised by us to: 
 Offer our insurance products to its customers 
 Arrange insurance for the benefit of the customer; 
 Collect premiums on our behalf;  Assist claims handlers with the processing/settlement of claims; 
 Settle claims.
The policy also defines:
Claims Handlers means claims handlers appointed by Us to process Claims on our behalf 
made under the Policy
And under section 3 Cover
Subject to You paying the Premium (s) invoiced by the Remover, We agree to insure the 
Goods under the Terms of this Policy
So I take from this that the claims handler in settling the claim would still need to consider 
the claim under the terms of the policy. I know Ms M isnt happy that the claims handler said 
it was only her racing medals that werent covered, but as outlined in my provisional decision 
the policy is clear about what is and isnt insured. And some of the items Ms M has claimed 
for arent covered under the terms of the policy.
Clause 11
Ms Ms understanding of this clause is that Baxendale have a responsibility to pay and hire 
experts to inspect the damaged items she is claiming for. Ive considered the wording of the 
clause:
You maybe asked to provide information that is reasonably required to substantiate Your 
Claim. If requested, damaged Goods must be made available for inspection either by the 
Claims Handlers or a third party appointed by the Claims Handlers to assist in the Claim 
such as a restorer, loss adjuster or expert.
You will only be asked for information relevant to Your Claim such as, but not limited to;
Evidence in whatever form to support the amounts claimed;
Receipts;
Reports detailing damage;
Third party correspondence;
Photographs;
Video footage;
Proof of ownership;
Operating manuals;
Valuations
Crime reference numbers;
Details of any other policy of insurance that covers the Goods
You agree to provide such information if it is requested. Failure to co-operate with 
reasonable requests for information may delay the processing of Your Claim and in some 
cases may result in Your Claim being declined.
I consider the wording is clear and allows Baxendale to ask Ms M to provide information 
needed for them to substantiate her claim. And for her to make available any items if 
requested by Baxendale for inspection. In my provisional decision I said:
This does leave a number of items still outstanding. Baxendale say theyve adequately 
explained the basis of their offers, especially as to the items which remain outstanding. 
Theyd given sufficient detail about the information thats required for the remaining 
outstanding items to be considered. And I can see theyve detailed the items, what information they need from Ms M and have highlighted to her the policy terms that show their 
reasoning for needing this information. Its for Ms M and Baxendale to reach an agreed 
settlement for these remaining items, after which if Ms M is still dissatisfied, she can raise a 
further complaint.
And
Baxendale has asked for information about the missing cables in connection with another 
claimed for item
So I dont think Baxendale has acted unfairly or unreasonably is asking Ms M to provide 
information to substantiate her claim. And I dont agree that the clause means Baxendale 
must inspect Ms Ms damaged goods, only that she should have the items available for 
inspection if requested to do so by them. 
Interim payments
My provisional decision states that Baxendale has made an interim payment which has been 
accepted by Ms M (£4,760). And that they have offered a further payment which Ms M hasnt 
accepted as she is disputing the amount offered. Im satisfied that the proposed interim 
payment of £1,429 offered by Baxendale doesnt cover all the items they have agreed to 
settle. In my provisional decision Id calculated this should be £1,507.80.
On review of Ms Ms listed items, I can see that two mops were listed at P15 and P16 
although at times these were itemised as a mop and a broom. P15 was agreed in the interim 
payment of £4,760. But I can see that in the further settlement offer £10 was agreed for P16. 
Taking this into account this would increase the agreed items to £1,517.80.
Ms M insurance claim included a Diana coin shed valued at £500. I can see that Ms M 
later agreed in emails that this should be considered as a souvenir. And as Baxendale had 
agreed to pay £4 for each souvenir this should be included making a total number of 
souvenirs of 23 not 22. But as made clear in the terms and conditions coins arent covered 
under the insurance policy. I know Ms M disputes this as she says the item isnt a coin of 
value, but the policy doesnt differentiate the nature of the coin only that coins arent covered 
under the policy. So, I dont think the coin can be considered as a souvenir, which means the 
total number of souvenirs remains 22 with a settlement payment of £88 as offered by 
Baxendale.
Claim notification
I can see form the emails sent by Ms M that she told the claims handler about the extent of 
the damage. But in response I can see that the claims handler tried to assist Ms M with her 
claim, by the reporting of the damage within the seven days in line with the policy terms.
You need to report the damage to me in writing within 7 days following the delivery  and 
then you should complete and return the claims form.
I can also see that it was suggested Ms M take photos of the damage goods, while this 
could be arduous for each item, the suggestion made by the claims handler was for Ms M to 
provide a few photos to give an overall view of the damage caused. I consider this was fair 
and reasonable and was the claims handler trying to assist Ms M with her claim. I accept the 
difficulties Ms M experienced, but she was able to provide the required details in line with the 
policy terms.So, having considered all of the additional representations made, apart from the additional 
£10 item my findings within the provisional decision remain unchanged.
I appreciate there will be aspects of my decision that will disappoint both Ms M and
Baxendale. But my role is to reach a resolution thats fair and reasonable for all
parties. And Im currently satisfied what Ive set out above reaches a fair resolution to this
longstanding dispute.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ms complaint.  And ask The Baxendale Insurance Company DAC to:
settle the agreed items as detailed above with an interim payment of £1,517.80, not 
as offered £1,429;
continue to work with Ms M in reaching an agreed settlement for the remaining 
outstanding items of her claim in line with the policy terms and conditions; and
pay Ms M £750 for the distress and inconvenience that has been caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman