DRN-3824940
The complaint
Miss W complains about how Esure Insurance Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels (Esure) 
handled her car insurance claim after shed been in an accident that wasnt her fault. 
What happened
Miss W has motor insurance with Esure.
 
Miss W was involved in a road traffic accident in September 2021. Miss W says her vehicle 
toppled to one side and ended up in a ditch. The other driver admitted fault since his vehicle 
didnt stop.
Miss W says her car was written off and the insurer arranged for it to be retrieved from the 
ditch. Miss W says she also contacted her GAP insurer on the same day. 
Miss W didnt hear from her insurer after five days and so she contacted them. She says the 
insurer hadnt had sight of her car and didnt know where it was. Miss W says the insurer 
didnt know where her car was for over ten days. 
Miss W says she spent a significant amount of time contacting Esure and chasing the initial 
claim. She has had to borrow money in order to purchase a replacement car due to the 
amount of time taken to resolve the claim. She wasnt able to take out any further finance 
since the previous loan remained outstanding. Esure also told Miss W she would receive her 
loss of earning shortly after the initial claim had been settled. But she didnt receive it. And 
so she complained to Esure. 
Esure told her its supplier had been instructed to collect the car and take it to storage but 
due to an administrative error the correct address details werent provided. This caused 
delay. Esure accepted there had been further delay with the valuation of Miss Ws car and 
that she had to contact it several times. Esure explained Miss Ws loss of earnings was 
being dealt with by its recoveries department as an uninsured loss it was trying to recover 
from the third-party insurer. Esure apologised for the service Miss W received and paid £100 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Miss W wasnt happy with Esures response to her complaint. She wants her loss of 
earnings paid together with compensation to reflect the stress she has been under for more 
than seven months while trying to deal with her claim. So she referred her complaint to this 
service. 
The investigator looked into things for her. He partly upheld the claim. He said it was clear 
there were initial delays and mistakes during the claim. But he thought more could have 
been done by Esure to explain the process of claiming her loss of earnings so he awarded a 
further £75. Esure didnt agree with the investigators outcome. It said it firmly believed the 
£100 paid and the extension of the hire car adequately reflected the delays in the claim. 
Since Esure didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss W. Ive no doubt it would have 
been upsetting for Miss W to have been involved in a road traffic accident which wasnt her 
fault. And I understand why she feels unfairly treated by Esure. She feels Esure should have 
managed her claim more efficiently rather than adding to her distress. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on a specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Not kept up to date throughout the claims process 
Miss W feels Esure didnt communicate with her as she would have expected. Ive reviewed 
the information provided by both sides. I can see Miss W had to chase Esure on more than a 
few occasions. 
Esure accepted it didnt communicate with Miss W as it should have and accepted there 
were some avoidable delays at the beginning of the claim. So it paid her £100 by way of 
compensation. I think this is fair in the circumstances and in line with what I would have 
recommended. 
Loss of earnings claim 
Miss W made a claim for her loss of earnings in September 2021. When she contacted 
Esure in October and November she was told it was being dealt with by its recoveries team. 
I can see Esure instructed its solicitors in July 2022 when it hadnt heard further from the 
third-party insurer. 
Esure say it explained to Miss W that her loss of earnings wouldnt be sent to the third-party 
insurer until they had their own costs on the file. I appreciate this is standard practice but I 
havent seen anything that shows Esure adequately explained to Miss W what this meant for 
her claim. 
Miss W wasnt kept informed of this part of her claim. I have listened to the calls in respect of 
the loss of earnings claim. Miss W repeatedly asks what the delay is and when that part of 
her claim will settle.  
Loss of earnings isnt a claim made on the insurance policy in the same way as insured 
losses are. Loss of earnings are an uninsured loss and so they are submitted to the third-
party insurer for their agreement to pay. Its clear from the calls Ive listened to that Miss W 
wasnt aware of the process for claiming for loss of earnings, and when she asked Esure for 
clarification, it didnt communicate as I would have expected it to. And so this led to 
increased frustration for Miss W. 
Taking everything into account I think Esures communication around the loss of earnings 
claim has been poor and has caused Miss W frustration at not knowing whats going on. 
I know Miss W wants Esure to pay her for the loss of earnings. However this isnt something 
she is automatically entitled to under the terms of the policy and so I am not able to compel 
Esure to pay this themselves. Putting things right
Its inevitable some inconvenience will be caused as a result of having to make a claim, and 
that isnt Esures fault, but overall I think a further £75 is fair and reasonable compensation to 
reflect the issues Ive highlighted. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Miss Ws complaint and direct Esure Insurance 
Limited to pay Miss W an additional £75. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman