DRN-3096720
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the amount that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) paid to 
her following a claim on her guaranteed asset protection (GAP) insurance which she held for 
her car.
For the purposes of this complaint, Mrs T was represented by Mr T. For ease, in this 
decision Ill refer to Mr Ts comments and actions as those of Mrs T.
What happened
Mrs T had GAP insurance for her car with Great Lakes. In the eventuality Mrs Ts car was 
deemed a total loss by her motor insurer, this policy offered cover for the difference between 
the Insured Value and the price of the Replacement Vehicle, Or the Early Settlement Figure 
owed on Your finance Agreement, whichever is the greater.
A replacement vehicle was defined within the policy terms and conditions as:
A Vehicle of the same (or superseded equivalent where the same cannot be sourced) make, 
model, age, mileage and specification, as the insured Vehicle when You bought it. If an 
equivalent Vehicle is no longer available, then the price of the Replacement Vehicle will be 
limited to 110% of the Net Invoice Selling Price. Costs appearing on the original new/used 
vehicle sales invoice for paintwork protection applications, fuel and further ancillary items 
such as Road Fund Licence, Warranty, Insurance Policy/ies and/or a Service plan will be 
included on a pro-rata basis relevant to the unexpired duration (at the time of claim). 
This applies only where the full original cost of these additional items was included within the 
vehicle purchase price declared to us at the time of buying this GAP insurance policy and 
the value of that unexpired duration at the time of claim cannot be transferred forward to a 
new Vehicle by, or claimed back from, the provider.
Unfortunately, in October 2020 Mrs Ts car was stolen. At the time the car was stolen there 
was no outstanding finance on the vehicle. Mrs Ts cars insurance value was deemed to be 
£22,310 by her insurer and she was paid this less the £250 excess on her policy.
In relation to her GAP insurance claim, after some discussions on the value of the vehicle 
Great Lakes offered a final settlement figure of £11,410, calculated as follows: 
Replacement value of £31,850 (based on a similar advertised vehicle) plus an additional
£1,350 for extras not on the advertised vehicle Great Lakes found when researching, less 
the insurer settlement and less the GAP insurance policys £250 excess.
Mrs T wasnt happy with this. Mrs T provided her own advertisements in support of her 
complaint and whilst none of them matched the exact specification of her vehicle, they were 
the closest she could find. Mrs T thought a fair settlement figure would be an average price 
across the three adverts she found. So, Mrs T indicated shed be willing to accept a 
settlement figure of £12,988, as she felt the vehicle had been undervalued by £1,848.
Great Lakes didnt agree and so Mrs T complained. But the complaint wasnt upheld by 
Great Lakes. It noted the value it had used was more than 110% of the selling price of the 
original car.
In response, Mrs T highlighted that the advertised car Great Lakes had looked at when 
deciding how much to settle her claim for was missing additional software that enabled her 
to connect with her mobile phone - something her car had had. She said this was an 
additional extra that hadnt been accounted for in the valuation. Mrs T also said she wasnt 
made aware of the 110% claim limit when she took out the policy.
Great Lakes replied and made the following points:
The software Mrs T had highlighted didnt come as standard and was an option 
added by the previous owner of the car. It said this wasnt considered something 
that would majorly impact the market value, but it offered an additional £150 
payment as a gesture of goodwill.
The advertised car it had used to calculate the settlement figure was a slight 
upgrade to Mrs Ts vehicle.
It clarified it would only look to use the 110% clause if a similar make and model 
car couldnt be found and confirmed this hadnt been relied on.
The policy does not entitle Mrs T to a market value based on an average cost, 
the policy is for a settlement figure based on the cost of an available 
replacement vehicle, which had been provided.
Mrs T disagreed and brought her complaint to our service. She said the software was listed 
on the factory build sheet and was not a later addition. It was noted that this could not be 
added either and was a key feature she used regularly.
Our investigator looked into things but was of the view Great Lakes had acted fairly. 
Mrs T didnt agree with their findings but said that shed be willing to settle the complaint if 
Great Lakes would split the difference between their valuations. This proposal was put to 
Great Lakes but it didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having seen an email which was sent to Mrs T on the day she took out her GAP insurance 
policy, Im satisfied she was sent her policy schedule and terms and conditions which 
detailed her cover. And this included the 110% claim limit, so I think Great Lakes provided 
her with the information it was required to provide. But I note that this isnt the term thats 
been relied on in this claim.
Under the terms and conditions of this policy, Great Lakes has to base its settlement on the 
following:
A Vehicle of the same (or superseded equivalent where the same cannot be sourced) make, 
model, age, mileage and specification, as the insured Vehicle when You bought it. If an 
equivalent Vehicle is no longer available, then the price of the Replacement Vehicle will be 
limited to 110% of the Net Invoice Selling Price.
Not unsurprisingly, a vehicle with the exact same specification and mileage hasnt been 
found by either Great Lakes or Mrs T.
So technically speaking, on the strictest interpretation of the policy terms and conditions, 
Mrs T would be entitled to a settlement based on a value of 110% of the net invoice selling price, plus a pro rata amount for any of the extras as detailed in the terms and conditions  
which is under the settlement value shes been offered by Great Lakes.
But Great Lakes felt it was able to locate a sufficiently comparable vehicle that it could fairly 
base a settlement on. The vehicle it found was the same make and model (albeit the 
upgraded 4-wheel drive version) and age. It differed in mileage and specification. Its mileage 
was less than the mileage of Mrs Ts car at the point of purchase. But it was missing a key 
extra pack offered by the manufacturer and, as Mrs T has stressed, it was missing the 
software that interacted with her phone. To account for this, Great Lakes added the cost of 
purchasing this pack to the settlement figure and then it later added £150 for the software.
Given the similarity between the vehicles and the areas of betterment, I think Great Lakes 
could fairly consider this an equivalent car and settle the claim in this way. I say this taking 
into account that its value was over the 110% settlement value Mrs T might otherwise have 
received.
Im aware Mrs T doesnt think the valuation was fair and provided her own evidence in 
support of this. Ive looked carefully at the adverts Mrs T sent Great Lakes and having done 
so, Im not persuaded these are closer matches to Mrs Ts car than the example used by 
Great Lakes. So, I dont think they indicate the valuation offered by Great Lakes was unfair. 
There are more substantial discrepancies in age and mileage between these cars and 
Mrs Ts. So, whilst a lot of them are more expensive, Im not persuaded the value 
Great Lakes decided on was unfair.
I appreciate this decision will come as a significant disappointment to Mrs T, but for the 
reasons Ive outlined above I dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly and I dont think it 
needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman