DRN-4320013
The complaint
Miss C complains that Creation Financial Services Limited unfairly closed her account, didnt 
credit her points, a free night stay voucher or refund the annual fee. She also says Creation 
gave her misleading information during a phonecall. Shed like her benefits credited and 
compensation for the impact and time taken to resolve the issue. 
What happened
Miss C had a rewards club premium credt card account with Creation which included an 
annual fee of £99. The card included the ability to earn reward points, which could be 
redeemed for hotel stays or experiences, and a hotel voucher for a free night stay.
In September 2021, Creation sent Miss C a letter informing her that her credit card accout 
would be closed in December 2021. And they wouldnt be crediting her the points for the last 
statement period, her free night stay voucher or a refund of the unused annual fee.
On receiving the letter, Miss C contacted Creation. She told Creation that she was unhappy 
about her acount being closed and told them that she had always used her account properly 
and wanted the benefits associated with her account. Miss C says the adsivor told her that 
she would still receive her award points on any spending she did and her free night 
certificate if she qualified for one. And that she wouldnt be charged the annual fee. 
However, following this call, Miss C noticed on her account statement that Creation had 
charged the fee to her account, in November 2021. So, Miss C contacted Creation again and 
this time it told Miss C that the information shed been given when she first contacted 
Creation was incorrect.
Miss C compained to Creation about the closure of her account. Creation didnt uphold her 
complaint. They said they acted fairly in closing Miss Cs account, not refunding the annual 
fee, crediting the points or the hotel voucher. Miss C wasnt happy with Creations response 
and brought her compaint to our service. She said that had Creation given her the correct 
information about the account fee she would have closed her account to avoid being 
charged the £99 fee. She also said that she would have ensured she spent the required 
amount of money to meet the threshold to receive the free night voucher. 
After Miss C brought her complaint to our service Creation made an offer to resolve Miss Cs 
complaint. They offered Miss C a refund of her annual fee, and the points not credited, which 
were earnt during the notice period. Creation didnt offer Miss C a free night voucher as 
based on her spending she didnt qualify to receive one.
Miss C didnt accept the offer. She pointed out that Creation hadnt offered compensation for 
the time, hassle and inconvenience caused and having to raise a complaint with our service. 
And having to wait to be refunded the account fee and awarded her points. Miss C also said 
if Creation hadnt misadvised her she would have carried on using her card to get her 
voucher. Miss C has told us that she normally used her voucher at the same hotel, which 
cost £650 a night. So she says she lost out and Creation should provide her with a voucher.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Cs complaint. He asked Creation for a recording 
of the phone conversations Miss C had with Creation where she was given information about 
her account closure and benefits. But it wasnt able to provide this. The investigator also 
asked Miss C to provide evidence that she would have met the threshold required to get the 
voucher. In respone, Miss C said that she would have changed her spending habits and 
explained that she paid bills using the card so would have met the required spend. She also 
provided some papework to support  this  her council tax and other utility bills.
 
In the absence of the phone recordings the investigator thought what Miss C had said about 
the calls was more likley than not correct. However, he didnt think this had caused Miss C 
any detriment because, based on the evidence, he thoguht it unlikely Miss C would have 
been able to spend £10,000 in a couple of months before her account was closed. So he 
said Creation had done enough to put things right.
Creation accepted the investigators recommendations. Miss C disagreed. She said Creation 
hadnt done enough to put things right and should compensate her for having to spend time 
and effort chasing Creation and following up her complaint. And being without her account 
fee refund and points for so long. She maintained that had she known her points would be 
credited to her account she would have met the threshold to get a free voucher.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Creation has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of 
detail with Miss C, but Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
Account closure
I understand that Miss C is unhappy Creation closed her account, it cant be pleasant being 
told you are no longer wanted as a customer. Creation can only close accounts in certain 
cirucumstances and if its in the terms and conditions of the account. Creation have relied on 
the terms and conditions when closing Miss Cs account. Ive reviewed the terms and they 
explain that Creation can close an account for any reason by giving 60 days notice. 
Having looked at all the information available to me, including Creations actions and the 
information its provided Im satisfied that Creations decision to close Miss Cs account  was 
reached legitimately and fairly. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and circumstances of 
this complaint, and Im satisfied Creation acted in line with them, so, it was entitled to close 
the account as it has already done. I appreciate this is disappointing for Miss C however, 
Creation have provided Miss C with the full notice period, so I cant say Creation have acted 
unfairly in taking the actions it did. Ive considered whether Creation need to offer any 
compensation in regard to the closure. But from what Ive seen the decision to close was 
reasonable.
Annual fee, withholding of points and hotel voucherCreation have offered to reimburse Miss Cs points, and refund Miss Cs £99 account fee. 
Im satisfied that Creation shouldnt have deprived Miss C of access to the points, and refund 
when initially closing the account. But Im pleased to see that they have now put this right. I 
understand that Creation has already reimbursed Miss C her points in April 2023, and her 
annual account fee in November 2021. 
Miss C says that Creation havent done enough to put things right. In particular, shes said 
that although Creation has now provided her with her points and refund its has taken a long 
time for this to happen. I appreciate Miss C will likely be frustrated by the delay in the reward 
points being added to her account, but I think by adding them Creation have returned her to 
the position she would have been in otherwise. So, Im satisfied they dont need to do 
anything further than that to resolve this aspect of Miss Cs complaint.
I should explain that our awards are designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and upset 
caused to the consumer by something a financial business did wrong. We are not here to 
punish financial businesses. Nor can we award compensation as a means of punishing a 
business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service. 
Miss C has asked to be compensated for the time shes had to wait for her complaint to be 
resolved. But Id need to be satisfied that shes lost out and been caused inconvenience by 
not having her complaint resolved sooner. And on balance, I cant say this is the case. 
Therefore, I wont be awarding any compensation.
Ive considered what Miss C had said about the hotel voucher - that she was given 
misleading information by Creation which meant she lost out on being able to meet the 
threshold spending to qualify for a free night certificate. Its unfortunate that due to the time 
that has now passed, Creation is unable to provide recordings of the conversations it had 
with Miss C. In the absence of any other evidence to contradict what Miss C has said, like 
the investigator, I think it is fair to rely on Miss Cs comments. 
Having looked at the circumstances of this complaint, Im not satisifed that Creation 
providing Miss C incorrect information led to her suffering any detriment. I say this because 
having looked at Miss Cs account statements I cant see that her spending increased in 
October through to November 2021, when she was under the impression that despite being 
in a notice to close period, her spending would continue to attract award points. Ive also 
looked at the paperwork Miss C provided to the investigator and having done so I cant see 
that paying the bills with her Creation account would have meant she met the £10,000 
threshold required to get a free night voucher. So when I weigh eveything up I think it is 
unlikely Miss C would have been able to qualify for a free night voucher.
My final decision
Mu final decision is that I dont require Creation Financial Services Limited to do anything 
more to resolve Miss Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman