DRN-3504424
The complaint
Mr C complains about the settlement Ageas Insurance Limited paid him after he made a 
claim on his caravan insurance policy following its total loss. He wants it to pay him the 
caravans market value. 
What happened
Mr Cs caravan was damaged by a storm and declared to be uneconomical to repair. Ageas 
assessor assessed the caravans market value, which was greater than the amount Mr C 
had insured the caravan for. Mr C wanted to retain the salvage. So Ageas paid Mr C the 
insured value of the caravan, £6,000, less the policy excess and 25% of its market value, 
£8,500, in settlement of his claim. Mr C was unhappy with this as he thought the policy 
provided for the caravans market value in the case of total loss.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr C 
had insured the caravan for £6,000 and so this was its insured value. She thought the policy 
clearly stated that this was the most Ageas would pay in the case of total loss. She thought 
Ageas assessor had correctly assessed the caravans market value. And so she thought 
Ageas had calculated the settlement in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr C replied that he thought Ageas had acted unfairly. He said hed accepted a cash 
settlement for his claim and so he thought salvage shouldnt be involved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C feels frustrated with the settlement of his claim. He said he 
insured the caravan for the amount he paid for it. And he wasnt to know that the caravan 
would increase in value. So he feels he has been unfairly treated. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr C was unhappy that his caravan was deemed to be beyond economical repair. But Ive 
seen the independent engineers report on the repair costs for the caravan and these 
amounted to about £5,300 for parts and labour. Insurers usually have a cut-off point to 
decide whether a vehicle is uneconomical to repair. This is less than the caravans insured 
or market value. And it usually considers, as the engineers report does here, that further 
damage may come to light on dismantling. So I cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable 
for Ageas to decide that the caravan was a total loss. 
Mr C said he thought his policy provided the caravans market value in this case. Ive looked 
at Mr Cs policy. On page 3 of the policy booklet under Insured Values, it states: 
It is your responsibility to make sure the amounts you are insured for represent the full value 
of your property. If, at the time of any loss or damage, the sum insured for your caravan is 
not enough to replace it we may proportionally reduce the amount of any claim payment 
made by the percentage of underpayment of premium which has arisen as a result of the 
shortfall in the sum insured.
And on page 17, under Basis of Settlement, it states:
The most your insurer will pay is the market value of your Caravan or trailer, up to the 
caravan sum insured shown on your schedule. If the Caravan sum insured is less than the 
market value of the caravan then the proportionate remedy set out on page 3 of this 
document of insurance will apply.
Mr C pointed out that the policy schedule states that the basis of settlements will be the 
market value. But the schedule also clearly states the sum insured and tells him that the 
schedule should be read in conjunction with the policy. 
I think these terms and conditions are clearly set out and sufficiently drawn to Mr Cs 
attention for Ageas to reasonably rely on them. The insured value of the caravan, as 
provided by Mr C, was £6,000. So I think its in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions for Ageas to rely on this amount to settle the claim.
Mr C wanted to retain the caravans salvage and so I think its fair and reasonable, and in 
keeping with standard industry practice, for Ageas to make a deduction from the settlement 
for what it could have sold the salvage for. In this case, Im satisfied that it was 25% of the 
caravans market value at the date of its loss. 
I can understand that Mr C may feel its unfair for Ageas to seem to have benefited from the 
market conditions whilst he didnt. But I cant say this was unfair or unreasonable as Ageas 
would have received this amount if Mr C had decided not to retain the salvage. 
So I think Ageas settled Mr Cs claim fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the policys 
terms and conditions. So I cant say that it acted incorrectly or needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman