DRN-4144803
The complaint
Miss G complains about Haven Insurance Company Limited and the way they handled the 
claim she made, following damage to her car while it was parked.
What happened
Miss G held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by Haven. Unfortunately, in early 
November, Miss G returned to her car, parked in a public car park, to find it had been 
damaged. And Miss G believed this damage had been caused by a third-party car, parked 
directly next to her. So, she contacted Haven to make a claim.
Miss G wanted to make a non-fault claim, as she felt the damage had been caused by the 
third-party. And Miss G made Haven aware that CCTV footage of the incident should be 
available from a fast-food retail outlet, who Ill refer to as B and a gym, who Ill refer to as 
T.
Haven processed Miss Gs claim, requesting CCTV footage from B while also contacting the 
third-party insurer (TPI). But the TPI disputed Miss Gs claim, explaining their insured 
disputed causing any damage to Miss Gs car. And they provided images they felt showed 
damage was present on Miss Gs car before the time of the alleged incident.
Haven continued to engage with the TPI, and chase B for footage. But no footage was 
provided and so, without any evidence to support Miss Gs version of events, Haven didnt 
think they were able to claim against the TPI, without Miss G agreeing to claim through her 
own insurance policy. And Miss G didnt want to do this, as the applicable excess was more 
than the estimated repair cost. So, Haven closed the claim down as notification only.
Miss G was unhappy about this, so she made a complaint. Miss G was unhappy with the 
way Haven handled the claim. In particular, she was unhappy that Haven had failed to 
request CCTV footage from T. And that due to the time that elapsed, this footage was no 
longer available. Miss G felt this footage wouldve proven her version of events and allowed 
a claim to be raised against the TPI, at no cost to herself. So, Miss G wanted Haven to cover 
the costs she incurred repairing her car and allow her to switch to another policy at no cost 
to herself.
Haven responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had processed 
Miss Gs claim fairly. And they explained that they were unable to issue legal proceedings to 
recover costs from the TPI unless Miss G agreed to claim on her own insurance policy, 
which she had been reluctant to do. So, Haven set out the options available to Miss G 
moving forwards. And they didnt offer to do anything more. Miss G remained unhappy with 
this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought Haven had failed to 
request CCTV footage from T within a reasonable amount of time. And because of this 
delay, the footage was no longer available. So, our investigator thought Miss G had lost the 
opportunity to potentially rely on this footage to support her claim and prove liability. But our 
investigator explained it couldnt be known for certain what this footage wouldve shown, and 
what impact it wouldve had on Miss Gs claim. So, to recognise the error Haven made, our 
investigator thought Haven should pay Miss G £150.
Haven accepted this recommendation. But Miss G didnt. She provided several comments, 
which included and are not limited to her belief, referring to legal wording, that the footage 
wouldve been provided by T. And she thought that, as this footage may have shown the 
incident and proven liability, Haven should cover the costs shed incurred as if this had been 
the case, she wouldnt have needed to pay for the repairs herself.
Our investigator responded to these comments, explaining our service was unable to 
assume the footage wouldve shown the incident and supported Miss Gs version of events. 
So, to remain impartial, our investigator reaffirmed their recommendation that Haven should 
pay Miss G £150 as their delay led to the footage no longer being available. Miss G 
remained unhappy with this recommendation and so, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I recognise Miss G feels strongly that the damage to her car was caused by the third-party. 
So, I understand why Miss G feels its unfair that shes been left in a situation where shes 
needed to pay the costs of the repairs, when the damage happened through no fault of her 
own.
I also recognise Miss G believes the incident itself shouldve been caught on CCTV around 
the car park her car was parked, and so I can understand why Miss G feels as though Haven 
are responsible for the costs shes incurred, as this footage wasnt obtained and able to be 
used to prove liability.
In this situation, Ive seen Haven did contact B requesting CCTV footage of the incident the 
day after they were notified of the claim. And Ive seen Bs response to this request, 
confirming no footage showing the incident was able to be found. So, Im satisfied Haven did 
all they can to obtain footage from B and I dont hold them responsible for the fact no footage 
was found. While I appreciate Miss Gs assertions footage shouldve been available from B, 
and Ive seen the image she showed highlighting the location of the camera in relation to the 
parked space, there are several reasons why B may have been unable to obtain this 
footage. And I dont think Haven were able to control the actions of B, or the footage they 
recorded. So, I think Haven acted fairly here.
But its accepted that Haven didnt contact T to obtain the CCTV footage they may have 
recorded until some months after the incident. And Ive seen an email from T, which 
confirmed if any footage had been recorded of the incident, this was no longer recoverable 
due to the time that elapsed and how long they kept recordings for. So, based on this, I think 
its reasonable for me to assume that, had Haven contacted T straight after they received 
notification of the claim like they did with B, they would likely have been provided with CCTV 
footage had any recording of the incident been available.
So, Im satisfied that Havens failure to request this footage from T within a timely manner has resulted in Miss G losing the opportunity for any footage to be considered when a 
decision on liability was being made. And due to this, Im satisfied Havens actions were 
unfair and unreasonable, potentially impacting the settlement of Miss Gs claim. As I think 
Haven acted unfairly here, Ive then thought about what I think Haven should do to put things 
right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Miss G back in the position she wouldve 
been in, had Haven acted fairly in the first place. Crucially, any award or direction isnt 
intended to place Miss G in a position of betterment, as we are an independent and impartial 
service that must act fairly to both Miss G and Haven.
In this situation, had Haven acted fairly, I think they wouldve requested the CCTV footage 
from T sooner. And, if any footage of the incident was available, I think it wouldve been 
provided. So, I do think Miss G has lost the opportunity for this footage, if available, to be 
considered as part of her claim. And I think the realisation of this wouldve been upsetting 
and frustrating for Miss G, especially considering how strongly she felt regarding the 
situation and the liability.
But as this footage hasnt been obtained, Im unable to speculate on what the footage 
wouldve shown. So, Im unable to speculate, or say for certain, that the footage wouldve 
shown the incident, or that the third-party was the one responsible for the damage caused to 
Miss Gs car.
If I was to assume the footage wouldve shown this and directed Haven to do something 
based on this assumption, and the footage wouldve in fact not shown the incident as Miss G 
believes happened, then I would be placing Miss G in a position of betterment. And as Ive 
explained, this is something neither I, nor our service, is able to do within the rules set by the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
So, Im unable to say for certain that the footage wouldve confirmed the third-party was 
liable for the damage. And I cant say for certain that Haven wouldve been able to settle the 
claim on a non-fault basis, at no cost to Miss G. Because of this, I dont think it would be fair 
for me to say Haven should cover the costs of the repairs to Miss Gs car.
Our investigator recommended Haven pay Miss G £150 to recognise the upset she wouldve 
felt when she realised she had lost the opportunity for this footage to potentially be 
considered as part of the claim process. I note Haven have acted this recommendation. And 
this recommendation is one that falls in line with our services standard approach and what I 
wouldve directed, had it not already been made.
I think it fairly recognises the emotional impact caused to Miss G, and her loss of 
opportunity. But I think it also fairly reflects the fact that there is no guarantee the footage 
wouldve proven liability. I think it also fairly acknowledges that Haven did offer Miss G the 
opportunity to pursue the claim through her own insurance policy, which I would expect them 
to do. I appreciate Miss G chose not to do so, as her excess on the policy wouldve been 
applicable and this was more than the repair costs. I understand why Miss G chose this 
course of action, but that was her own decision to make. 
So, I think Haven should pay Miss G £150 to fairly resolve the complaint.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Gs complaint about Haven Insurance 
Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Miss G £150 to recognise her loss of the opportunity caused by their error, and 
the upset and frustration this caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman