DRN-3043949
The complaint
Mrs J complains as a director of R, a limited company, about Barclays Bank UK PLCs 
(Barclays) decision to close their business accounts. 
What happened
Mrs J says she was informed by Barclays that there was a block placed on her business 
accounts. R then received letters to say their business accounts would be closed with 
immediate effect. Mrs J says this meant she was unable to pay staff and meet other 
business expenses, so R complained to Barclays.  
Barclays responded and explained they had reviewed the case and decided to reopen the 
business accounts and reinstate their service. They apologised for the time taken to carry 
out their review. 
Our investigator looked into things for R. She thought Barclays had acted in line with their 
terms and conditions in closing Rs accounts. R disagreed so the matter has come to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why I have made this 
decision. 
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Rs business accounts. Section 9 covers 
closure of an account and under the heading When we can close an account or end a 
service, it says Barclays can close an account and stop providing any services by giving a 
customer at least two months notice. It goes further to say However, we may end this 
agreement immediately or on less notice (and stop providing services and close your 
account) if we reasonably believe you have seriously or persistently broken any terms of the 
agreement, or any other agreement you have with us, or we have reasonable grounds for 
thinking you have done any of the following things Theres then a list of scenarios which 
allow Barclays to close an account immediately. 
I can see Barclays write to R and say theyve taken the decision to close their accounts and 
all facilities with immediate effect. They say they regularly review all accounts and theyve 
closed Rs accounts in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Barclays say they 
are unable to give any further reasons as to why they have made this decision. Barclays 
then provide guidance on steps R need to take, this includes finding an alternative bank if R 
still require banking arrangements and to put a stop to any regular payments which used to 
be received into the account. 
Banks have ongoing legal and regulatory obligations when providing services to customers. I 
can see Barclays do explain to R they regularly review accounts and theyve closed their 
account in line with the terms and conditions. I can see Mrs J points out the inconvenience 
this caused by having to make alternative arrangements to pay staff and meet other 
business commitments but the terms and conditions do allow Barclays to close an account 
with immediate effect so I cant say theyve acted unfairly. 
I acknowledge it will be frustrating for Mrs J to not know the reason for the closure of the 
accounts but theres no provision within the terms and conditions which requires Barclays to 
give a reason. 
In summary, while I understand the impact this had on R, I cant say Barclays have acted 
unreasonably here. Theyve taken steps in line with the terms and conditions and also 
informed R about the next steps they need to take if they require banking services from an 
alternative provider. That said, I can see Barclays did then reopen the business accounts.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman