DRN-2103493
The complaint
Mrs E complains Funding Circle Ltd allocated her a loan into her crowdfunding account 
which was poor performing. She says this exposed her to more risk than she agreed to and 
caused her a loss.
What happened
Mrs E holds a crowdfunding account on Funding Circles peer to peer lending platform. It is 
an automated account where loan parts are bought and sold on behalf of Mrs E based on a 
set criteria  including risk profile. Mrs Es account had a balanced risk profile  meaning she 
could be allocated loans across the full range of risk categories (A+ to E rated loans).
In April 2018, Mrs E was allocated a category E loan into her account via Funding Circles 
secondary market.  The loan successfully made repayments until September 2018, when it 
fell into late status after failing to make successful repayments. In November 2018 it went 
into default and Funding Circle started legal proceedings to recover funds. 
In September 2019, Mrs E raised a complaint with Funding Circle. In summary she said the 
investor terms said that a loan can only be sold to you if it is active and has no material 
credit issues. But in the period before this loan was sold on to her, payments had been late 
five times. As it was classed as higher risk (category E rated), she said the late payments 
shows it was neither creditworthy or without credit issues. 
Funding Circle didnt uphold the complaint. It said when the loan was allocated to Mrs Es 
account, the borrower was not late with their repayments and the loan was live. It wasnt 
classed as 'late' because all repayments were up to date and previous arrears had been 
cleared. The account automatically prevents loans classed as late being allocated. But as 
this loan was not late it was eligible to be sold on the secondary market, and this is in line 
with the terms and conditions. It didnt look to downgrade the loan because although the loan 
had fallen late in the past, it had not been made aware of a credit event occurring that would 
affect the loan agreement. While the loan did subsequently fall into arrears this is part of the 
risk and nature of lending to small and medium businesses.
Mrs E wasnt happy with the response, so she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
One of investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. In short, 
he said:
- The loan was allocated correctly by the platform and in line with the risk profile of Mrs 
Es account. 
- He acknowledged that Mrs E felt she shouldnt have been allocated the loan because 
it had missed payments in the past. But as the loan had been brought up to date, it 
didnt fit the terms to be considered late  so was still eligible to be allocated to her.
- He didnt think it was fair to conclude that the loan ought to be made unavailable on 
the Funding Circle platform because the previous missed payments were short term 
events rather than instances where numerous consecutive monthly payments were 
missed. 
- He also said the borrower took active steps to bring the repayments back in line. He 
was satisfied the platform operated correctly in allocating the loan, which wasnt in 
arrears at the time and matched Mrs Es risk appetite.
Mrs E disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, she said
- Funding Circle didnt follow its own guidelines when dealing with the loan and 
allowing it to be sold on the secondary market.
- Its terms are also unclear, so dont cover the actions it took to allow the loan to made 
available after missing payments. Specifically, there is no reference in the terms 
relating to loans reverting back to a live status.  
- Her risk appetite went to category E loans only and should not fall outside of this.
- She also felt it was clear the loan suffered an event of default according to the 
Funding Circles loan conditions.
Our investigator responded but didnt find reason to change his conclusion  in summary he 
said:
- He was still of the opinion Funding Circle had treated Mrs E fairly  and just because 
the terms and conditions do not cover every eventuality, it doesnt necessarily mean 
that the actions taken are unfair. 
- He didnt think the evidence supported that the loan performance (including missed 
payments later brought up to date) met the definition of the loan being in default  as 
per the terms. The term set out in the Loan Conditions explains that Funding Circle 
do not default every loan where there has been an Event of Default, it may only do 
so in certain situations. 
Mrs E didnt accept the opinion and asked for an ombudsman to reach a final decision. In 
summary she said:
- Funding Circle didnt provide clear information about what happens when loans with 
previous events of default becoming available for resale at a later date. 
- Making a late payment good doesnt mean that the borrower can be considered to be 
able to pay its debts when they are due. 
- Funding Circle hasnt explained why a borrower who has paid late four times in six 
months can be classed as able to pay its debts and its ability to meet payments isnt 
impaired. 
- Funding Circle failed to protect her interest because it failed to gain insight into 
problems the borrower was having before reinstating it as live and available for 
investment on the secondary market. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaints centres around a particular loan that was allocated to Mrs Es crowdfunding 
account through the automated allocation process. There doesnt appear to be any 
disagreement that the loan had previously missed payments but had been brought up to 
date at the point it was allocated to Mrs Es account. What is in dispute is whether Funding 
Circle should have made it available for allocation to Mrs E in the first place.Mrs E has confirmed in her submissions that she was happy with the risk profile of her 
account. Funding Circle provided risk assessments for the loans on the platform that ranged 
from A+ at the most secure end of the scale and category E being the highest risk loans. I 
understand that Mrs E selected a balanced approach  which meant that the loans spanning 
the risks ratings from A+ to E could be allocated to her account by Funding Circle. 
This loan was a category E loan, so on face value it did meet the correct criteria to be 
allocated to Mrs Es account. But Mrs E has pointed to the previous payment history of this 
loan and argued this meant the loan actually contained more risk that she had agreed to. 
The loan had been running for nearly three years before it was allocated to Mrs Es account 
in April 2018. During that time, Funding Circle says the borrower consistently made 
payments on time for the first two years  and only missed one payment in September 2016 
and this was brought up to date the following month. From September 2017 until the loan 
was allocated to Mrs Es account in April 2018, there were several further late payments. 
Funding Circle has provided information to this service to show on each occasion the 
borrower brought the payments up to date within four to ten days of the due date. So, it is 
correct to say the loan was up to date at the time it was allocated to Mrs Es account. 
Having reviewed Funding Circles terms and conditions  this specific scenario isnt covered 
explicitly. Nevertheless, there are still parts of the terms that are relevant in helping decide 
whether Mrs E has been treated fairly.
Funding Circle has provided the terms and conditions that were relevant to Mrs Es account 
when she invested in the loan. These confirm that Your funds will be lent to as many 
different Borrowers as possible that fall within your chosen lending option. There is a 
section that explains the automatic selection process and details loans that wouldnt be 
eligible for allocation  it says: 
10.4 To meet your transfer request, the Funding Circle Platform will automatically attempt 
to select eligible Loan Parts for sale and transfer to other Investors. Loan Parts that are 
not eligible for transfer and that cannot be bought or sold are those: 
if there is one repayment remaining; 
if the internal risk band classification of the Loan has changed; 
which are late or in default; 
which are part of a loan securitisation exercise. 
It defines an Event of Default as any event of default set out in the Loan Conditions.
The relevant section of the Loan conditions provides a long list of circumstances that is 
considered an Event of Default. The most relevant of these scenarios to this complaint are 
the following:
a. the Borrower misses, fails to pay or does not make a full monthly payment when due 
under the Loan Contract;
h. the Borrower or any Guarantor ceases to pay its debts or is unable to pay its debts as 
they fall due or is deemed unable or admits its inability to do so or makes a general 
assignment for the benefit of or a composition with its creditors;
p. a material adverse change occurs in the financial condition of the Borrower or any
Guarantor, or Funding Circle believes that the prospect of payment or performance of the 
liabilities of the Borrower, or any Guarantor, to the Investors is impaired.Ive also considered the wider regulatory principles that are relevant to the situation. The 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching 
requirements which all authorised firms are required to comply with. The most relevant 
principles here are:
 PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
 PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
 PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Funding Circle is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the FCAs 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
 COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client.
 COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading.
So ultimately, I need to decide whether it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances for 
Funding Circle to allocate the loan to Mrs Es account. 
The circumstances of this loan at the time it was allocated to Mrs E account were that it was 
up to date and wasnt behind in repayments  and therefore couldnt be considered as late. 
So, based on a strict interpretation of the terms explained above it didnt fall into any of the 
categories that would have made it ineligible for allocation. 
Mrs E has provided arguments to support that the loan should have actually been 
considered as in default. This is largely to do with the payment history in the six months prior 
to the loan being allocated. It is correct there were missed payments. So, I can understand 
why Mrs E questions the classification on the loan as appropriate for allocation. 
But I need to be careful not to view the situation with hindsight (knowing that loan was 
formally placed in default in November 2018) but look at the time the loan was allocated. At 
the time the loan was allocated to Mrs Es account, it had running for nearly three years and 
while there had been missed payments, the payment history shows that for the vast majority 
of the time it was paid on time by the borrower. And during the period were payments were 
missed the borrower had always been able to catch up payments within days of them being 
late. So, while the loan performance wasnt perfect, I dont think this presents clear evidence 
to say the prospect of payment by the borrower was impaired. I dont disagree that there had 
been payment issues in the six months prior to allocation but I dont think the circumstances 
are strong enough to say that Funding Circle should have considered more formal action 
with the borrower.
Ive noted Mrs Es comments that loans do not have to be subject to court action to be 
classed in event of default and not available for resale on the secondary market. I agree 
with this statement, but Ive also looked at what Funding Circle said it would do when 
payments are late. It has told us If a payment is missed, it will always attempt to collect the 
outstanding payment first, so that the borrower can get back on track with their contractual 
payment plan.  Funding Circles terms also cover the approach it would take when payments 
are missed. The terms say 13.1 If a Borrower misses a payment due under a Loan 
Contract, we will take certain administrative steps to pursue the missed payments. This may 
include engaging with the Borrower, seeking more information from them, and attempting to 
recover the outstanding sums due from them. In each case we will take the recovery action 
that we consider to be in the best interests of the affected Investors as a whole. .. From what Ive seen, this is what it did when this borrower missed payments  and this approach 
allowed the loan to be brought back into performance. It is worth pointing out that the first 
time a payment was missed and brought back up to date, the loan continued to perform as 
expected for a year before there were any further late payments. So, in my view, Funding 
Circle acted reasonably when it allocated the loan to Mrs Es account.  
There is always a judgement for Funding Circle to make when a loan has performance 
issues  and it has responsibilities towards both the borrower and lenders when deciding 
what action to take.  I dont think it acted incorrectly by not formally defaulting the loan (and 
effectively removing it from reallocation) when there were missed payments in late 2017/ 
early 2018. I appreciate Mrs E says she never asked that the loan be formally defaulted for 
late payment, just made unsaleable at the time it was sold to her because of the ongoing 
inability to pay on time. And I note she says there is no definition of formal default. But 
materially, I think this is the same situation as if Funding Circle was to make the loan 
ineligible for allocation, then as per the terms it would need to be late or in default at the 
relevant time. The loan had been brought up to date and successful payments had been 
collected in the three months prior to her being allocated the loan. I appreciate Mrs E 
believes the borrower was still in an event of default when the loan was sold to her  but I 
dont think the evidence supports this.
Mrs E says Funding Circle wasnt acting in her best interests. I dont agree there is sufficient 
evidence to say this to be the case. Mrs Es investment profile allowed for her account to be 
allocated the highest risk loans - category E (which I note she says she was comfortable 
with). This was a category E loan, so Funding Circle couldnt reclassify this loan to a higher 
risk band. To prevent it from being allocated, it could be classed as late or in default. But 
for the reasons Ive explained I dont think Funding Circle has acted incorrectly by making 
the loan available for investment at the time it was allocated to Mrs Es account. 
Ive also considered the points Mrs E makes about Funding Circle not providing her with 
clear information. She says information cant be clear if it doesnt exist and references the 
loan conditions providing guidance as to events of defaults but do not follow through in the 
terms and conditions. I accept that the terms dont cover situations where a loan has had 
payment problems and recently brought up to date  in relation to the automated allocation 
of loans. But the fact the specific scenario isnt covered in the terms doesnt lead me to think 
that Funding Circle has failed to meet Mrs Es information needs. I appreciate Mrs E takes a 
different view, but Im satisfied there is sufficient information to explain when a loan isnt 
eligible for allocation  and it follows that I think Funding Circle has applied this term in fair 
way when administering the account. 
Having reviewed the circumstances of this loan and the relevant lender terms and 
conditions, I dont find that Funding Circle are responsible for the losses Mrs E has incurred. 
Ive found that Funding Circle did act in a fair and reasonable way when allocating to the 
loan to her account. 
My final decision
I understand that my decision will come as a disappointment for Mrs E, but for the reasons 
set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Daniel LittleOmbudsman