DRN-3997072
The complaint
Ms M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined her claim for a damaged ring on her 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms M had home insurance that was underwritten by AXA. In May 2022 she made a claim 
following an incident in which both a watch and ring were damaged. 
AXA accepted the claim and paid out for the watch. However it said its experts had valued 
the ring at over £2,000 and anything worth over £1,500 needed to be added to the policy as 
a specified item, and as it wasnt there wouldnt be any cover.
Ms M didnt think this was fair. She said she had bought the ring for £1,200 so didnt think it 
needed to be specified. And she provided an online valuation that said it would be worth 
between £800 and £1,200. She made a complaint.
AXA maintained its position on her claim but offered £100 compensation to make up for 
some delays in concluding it. Unhappy with this, Ms M brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that Ms M had chosen not 
to specify the item because the sale value was well below the lower limit for this. And there 
was no requirement in the policy to get regular valuations for items below the value of 
£5,000. So she didnt think Ms M could have done any more. She therefore thought AXA 
should reimburse Ms M for the repairs cost plus 8% simple interest. She also thought it 
should increase the compensation offered to £300.
Ms M accepted our investigators outcome however AXA didnt. It said its expert had 
inspected the ring in person so the valuation was more reliable than an online quote. And 
items worth over £1,500 are only covered if theyre specified which Ms Ms ring wasnt. It 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ms policy provides cover for personal possessions, however it states under what is not 
covered:
Any item worth more than £1,500 individually (these can be covered under section 5b)
Section 5b provides cover for items worth more than  £1,500 that are specified on the policy 
schedule. 
AXA has said because its expert valued the ring at over £2,000 cover would only apply if it 
was specified and it wasnt.
Ive considered this and I dont think its acted fairly and reasonably by declining the claim for 
the ring. Ms M has explained that she bought the ring for £1,200, so didnt think it needed to 
be specified at the time she took out the policy, which is reasonable. 
AXA has said the onus is on the customer to ensure that the relevant cover is still in place by 
having up to date valuations of the items. While I understand this, I dont think Ms M acted 
unreasonably here.
The policy only requires regular valuations of items that are worth £5,000 or more. And the 
ring was well under the specified limit when bought, so I dont think Ms M would have been 
reasonably aware that she should have continued to value the ring to ensure cover.
Further, Ms M has provided an online valuation from after she made the claim that values 
the ring at between £800 and £1,200. So even if she had taken steps to ensure the cover 
was still sufficient, she likely would have carried out a similar valuation and been reassured 
that it didnt need to be specified. 
The policy states that only items over the value of £5,000 need to be inspected in person, so 
I dont think it reasonable for AXA to require an in person valuation rather than an online one 
for Ms Ms ring. So, as an in person valuation wasnt required under the policy terms and an 
online valuation places the ring significantly under the £1,500 specified item limit, even if Ms 
M had taken steps to assess the value I dont think it would have had any impact on her 
position now.
For these reasons, I agree with our investigator that AXA should reimburse Ms M for the 
repair cost of the ring, adding 8% simple interest to make up for the time she has been 
without the funds. 
Ive also considered the service AXA has provided throughout the claim. Ms M has had to 
repeatedly chase it for any progress on the claim and has been left with many emails 
unanswered. It took a long time for AXA to confirm its position on the claim, including the 
acceptance of the watch, which has meant she has had to continue to contact AXA for much 
longer than she should. This has caused her further distress and inconvenience. For this 
reason I agree with our investigator that AXA should increase the compensation its offered 
to £300. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Ms complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Reimburse Ms M for the repair to the ring on receipt of proof of the amount paid.
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount from the date Ms M paid until the date AXA 
reimburses her.
Pay Ms M £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman