DRN-3538813
The complaint
Mr R complains that the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) offered to him by 
Rothesay Life Plc in relation to his pension benefits was unfair.
What happened
Mr R held deferred pension benefits with an occupational pension scheme (OPS). He had 
left his employment with the relevant firm in 2011. The pension benefits were defined in 
nature, so Mr R would receive a specified income each year when he reached the scheme 
retirement age in 2029.
In 2018 the sponsoring employer of the scheme sold that part of its business. So it started to 
wind up the pension scheme. As a result the OPS administrators wrote to members to 
advise that their pension benefits would be provided at retirement by Rothesay. It told 
members that they would hold a policy in their own name with Rothesay. But it reassured the 
members that the benefits Rothesay would pay would be the same as those offered by the 
OPS.
In 2020 Mr R requested that the administrators of the OPS provided him with a CETV. That 
document was sent to Mr R on 17 July, and he was told that the CETV was guaranteed for a 
period of three months. The CETV was shown as being £141,764.42. It appears that Mr R 
didnt accept the CETV or ask for his pension benefits to be transferred to an alternative 
scheme.
In February 2021 Mr R requested a further CETV. By that time his pension benefits had 
been transferred to Rothesay, so it was that firm that issued the new CETV to him. The 
CETV issued by Rothesay was for an amount of £134,887.47.
Mr R complained to Rothesay that the value of the CETV it offered was significantly less 
than that offered by the OPS administrator just six months earlier. He said the value of his 
other pension savings had risen during that period. And he noted that the information about 
the transfer from the OPS had reassured members that their benefits would remain the 
same after the transfer. Rothesay didnt agree with Mr Rs complaint. It explained that the 
quoted CETV represented the current lump sum value of his deferred benefits and that its 
calculation was dependent on financial assumptions relating to market conditions that were 
regularly reviewed. It said that the CETV should not be considered as the benefit of the 
OPS that was guaranteed to remain unchanged.
Mr Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think Rothesay 
had done anything wrong. He said that the guarantee provided by the OPS related to the 
benefits that Rothesay would need to pay to Mr R when he retired. He explained that CETVs 
naturally fluctuate depending on market conditions and so are only guaranteed for a period 
of three months. Rothesay was under no obligation to honour the CETV provided by the 
OPS administrator six months before.
Mr R didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr R and by Rothesay. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
The benefits that Mr R had accrued in the OPS were defined in nature. That meant that, 
when he reached the scheme retirement age, the amount of pension he would receive each 
year was clearly set out based on its value when he left his employment, and any annual 
increases that were added in accordance with the scheme rules. Those sorts of benefits are 
very different from what are generally known as money purchase benefits. In that case 
consumers hold a pot of pension savings that will hopefully grow due to investment returns 
during their working life. And then, at retirement, that pot of money can be used to purchase 
retirement benefits at the rates prevailing at that time. In the case of the defined benefits the 
risk, should investment returns be lower than expected, sits with the pension provider.
But, in some cases, it might be appropriate for a consumer to give up their guaranteed 
defined benefits, in exchange for a cash sum that they can then invest in an alternative 
pension product to provide benefits at retirement. So schemes offering defined benefits are 
required to offer consumers what is known as a CETV.
A CETV is essentially a pension providers best estimate of the cost at that time of providing 
the guaranteed pension benefits at retirement. But of course that estimate is reliant on a 
number of assumptions. For example, a provider cannot accurately predict how investments 
will perform over what could be quite a lengthy period  in Mr Rs case there were eight 
years left until his retirement, but in many cases that time could be significantly longer. And 
of course other changes such as life expectancy, and the corresponding changes in annuity 
rates, will affect the cost of providing retirement benefits in the future.
So providing a CETV to a consumer is a complex process, and firms are guided by the 
advice they receive from actuaries implementing complex calculations that are set out in 
legislation. And the assumptions that underpin those calculations will be regularly revised. It 
is for that reason that firms are only required to guarantee a CETV for a period of three 
months after it has been issued.
The pension benefits that Mr R held with the OPS didnt provide him with any entitlement to 
his pot of money as would have been the case if he held money purchase benefits. Instead 
he had a guarantee from the scheme trustees that he would receive a defined annuity when 
he reached the scheme retirement age in 2029. And it was that guarantee that Rothesay 
agreed to take on when it accepted the transfer from the OPS.The CETV that was provided by the OPS administrator was guaranteed until October 2020. 
So, even if the transfer to Rothesay hadnt happened, Mr R would have needed to request a 
new CETV when he decided to make the transfer the following year. There is a strong 
likelihood that the CETV he would have received from the OPS administrator at that time 
would have been different to the one he received in 2020. Given the complexity of that 
calculation it would be wrong to simply base any expectation of the revised CETV on the 
change in value of other pension savings.
I have no reason to conclude that Rothesay has done anything other than complete the 
required calculations in fair and accurate manner. Ultimately it was for Mr R to decide 
whether or not to accept the CETV that Rothesay offered. Should he have decided not to 
accept the CETV, the financial risk of providing his retirement benefits would have remained 
with Rothesay. 
In his response to our investigator Mr R said that the umbrella I paid significantly for when 
working, is in effect, of far less value than I was ever advised when paying for it. But that 
isnt the case. Continuing that analogy, Rothesay had taken on the responsibility of providing 
the exact same umbrella to Mr R when he would retire in 2029. But instead Mr R was now 
asking Rothesay (or the OPS administrator six months earlier) if he could swap the umbrella 
he was due to receive in eight years time, for money to allow the purchase of raincoat to be 
provided now. The CETV was the equivalent value of the raincoat.
I appreciate that the change in the CETV would have been disappointing for Mr R. But the 
fall in the value of the CETV would represent a confidence from the actuary that the current 
cost to Rothesay of providing the guaranteed benefits for Mr R at retirement was less than 
had been the case for the OPS six months earlier. It didnt reflect any change in the value of 
Mr Rs guaranteed pension benefits at retirement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Rothesay Life Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman