DRN-2779838
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Mr A says that when he made enquiry in March 2019 about contributions to his pension, he 
wasnt informed of the possibility that further contributions could be made during the 2018/19 
tax year and as a result he made an additional contribution that led to a tax charge.
He says that he was misled into believing that no further contributions were going to be
made between the start and end dates of the tax year.
What happened
In the 2018/19 tax year, Mr A made a single contribution of £18,915.57 (net of basic rate tax) 
to his stakeholder pension plan. Before making this contribution, he had made enquiries with 
Aviva to find out the total pension contributions paid so he could fully utilise his pension 
allowance for the tax year.
In response to that enquiry Aviva provided a statement of contributions dated 27 March 
2019. This provided a breakdown of contributions received from 16 November 2012 to 1
March 2019. The statement also provided a breakdown of the contributions paid for each 
pension input period.
After Mr A was provided with the statement, he made an additional single contribution of 
£18,915.57. Then, on the 1 April 2019 his employers made a single contribution of over 
£8,000. As a result of this additional contribution Mr A exceeded his annual allowance, and 
this has resulted in a tax charge of over £2,000.
Mr A complained to Aviva but it didnt uphold the complaint and so it was referred to this 
service. An investigator considered the complaint, but he didnt think that it should be upheld.
The investigator noted that Aviva had provided a full breakdown of the pension contributions 
since the policy was set up. The statement was correct. The investigator didnt consider that 
it was misleading. There was no discussion about possible future employer contributions in 
the telephone call or online chat between Mr A and Aviva. There was no reason why Aviva 
would have discussed the employers contributions, and at the time of the enquiry it would 
not be possible for Aviva to have anticipated that Mr As employer would make a significant 
single contribution into the pension. Payments to Aviva from the employer were between Mr 
A and his employer.
Mr A didnt agree. He said, in summary, the layout of the statement was misleading, he 
wasnt notified of the possibility of further contributions being made before the end of the tax 
year. He was misled into believing it wasnt possibly to receive further employer 
contributions.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and with his reasoning which Ive summarised above. I dont 
uphold this complaint. There is very little that I can add to what the investigator has already 
said. Essentially, the statement Aviva provided wasnt misleading. It accurately stated the 
payments that had been made to 1 March 2019. There was no reason for it to say that 
further contributions could possibly be made, it didnt imply that they could not. 
Essentially, Mr A says that he was misled by omission. He thinks Aviva should have warned 
him of the possibility of further pension contributions being made before the end of the tax 
year. Had it done so, he would have made a lower personal contribution and avoided a tax 
charge.
 
I dont agree with Mr A. Aviva was asked to provide details of the pension contributions that 
had been made and that is what it did. The schedule was accurate and detailed the 
payments made up to the date of the statement. I dont think Aviva could be reasonably 
expected to do more than that. It couldnt know that the employer planned a further 
contribution and it had no control over that. If Mr A wasnt aware of the planned employer 
contribution when he contacted Aviva, thats an issue between him and the employer. 
The statement dated 27 March 2019 only referred to the relevant tax periods in a second 
section which was headed Payment Input Period. Again, there was no representation here 
that the contributions for 2018/19 were final, it just identified the tax period the contributions 
for this year and for past years related to. The whole point of Mr A asking for the statement 
was so that he could make a further contribution, so he must have known it wasnt a final 
statement and that further contributions could be made, at least by him.
Im not satisfied that the statement Aviva provided was misleading. I dont think Aviva ought 
reasonably to have given an additional comment or warning that the 2018/19 contributions 
were not necessarily final and that further employer contributions could be made, as Mr A 
seems to suggest it should have done. I cant see any objective basis to conclude that the 
statement it provided was misleading, even by omission, in the way Mr A suggests. I cant 
attach any blame to Aviva for Mr As tax charge when there is no fair, reasonable, or 
objective basis to do so.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman