DRN-3736424
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Accredited Insurance Europe Ltd (Accredited) didnt offer him 
enough for his vehicle when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P had a motor insurance policy with Accredited covering his vehicle. His vehicle was 
damaged, and he made a claim.
Accredited decided Mr Ps vehicle was written-off and valued it at £3,500 in its pre-accident 
state. 
Mr P wasnt happy with this amount and supplied copies of adverts for similar vehicles. 
Accredited didnt increase its valuation. It said that Mr Ps vehicle had pre-existing damage, 
so its value would have been lower than those examples. It said its valuation was fair in the 
circumstances.  
Mr P remained unhappy with Accrediteds valuation and he brought his complaint to this 
service. He asks for a higher valuation in line with the examples hes supplied.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint and didnt uphold it. She said she thought 
Accredited had acted fairly and reasonably and in line with its policy terms. 
Mr P didnt agree with the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
I can see from Accrediteds policy wording that it will pay the market value of a vehicle. In the 
policy wording it defines the market value as:
The market value based on that listed in a current motor trade publication guide for 
purchasing, or replacing, the insured vehicle with one of the same make, model, age, 
trim level, recorded mileage and being in a similar condition.
Our Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for vehicles but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
Ive done research into Mr Ps vehicle and Ive found these values, provided by four different 
trade guides, as at the date when Mr Ps car was damaged, which are based on a vehicle 
with the same specification as his:
Company A £3,141 
Company B £3,575
Company C £3,780
Company D £4,104
Accrediteds valuation of £3,500 sits in the range of values Ive researched. 
The average of these four values is £3,650, and Mr P might reasonably expect his vehicle to 
reach that figure. But his vehicle clearly showed some pre-accident damage to at least three 
areas, which would lower the market value when compared to the figures in the trade 
guides. 
Mr P has supplied details of some vehicle adverts and I have looked at the information hes 
provided. Unfortunately the links hes provided have expired, and I can see from the links 
hes sent that hes searched for vehicles that are similar to his. But the links also show me 
hes looked for the same model of car, with different body styles and fuel types. Both of 
these factors significantly affect the valuation of a vehicle. 
Its also important that I point out that Mr Ps policy pays him for the vehicle value at the point 
of time, rather than at the date of my writing when values may well have changed.
Im not persuaded that Mr P has shown his vehicle was worth any more than Accrediteds 
valuation of £3,500, and Im not going to ask it to pay more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman