DRN-2414545
The complaint
Mr P complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance supplied him 
with a motorbike under a hire purchase agreement which wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr P acquired a brand new motorbike in August 2019 which was financed by a hire 
purchase agreement from MotoNovo. The cash price of the motorbike was £2,599. Mr P 
paid a £600 deposit and the remainder was financed by the hire purchase agreement with 
36 monthly repayments of around £66 per month. 
In early 2020, Mr P contacted MotoNovo because he said hed experienced a number of 
faults and issues with the motorbike from the very beginning. He said the dealership he 
acquired the motorbike from had carried out several repairs, but problems still persisted. In 
summary, he said the main issues were:
It would regularly cut out
There had been an engine rattle and an oil leak
There were issues with headlight and speedometer 
Rust in several places
Issues with the gearbox and lack of power
The brakes were binding and eventually seized up
In March 2020, MotoNovo instructed an independent engineer to inspect the motorbike. The 
engineer concluded that the motorbike was in a satisfactory condition for its age and 
mileage, taking into consideration the specific make and model of motorbike. The engineer 
did say there was likely to be a fault with the gear selector, but it wasnt possible to test this 
fully due to the brakes having seized, which it said was due to lack of use. It said there were 
parts of the motorbike that had corroded but this corrosion didnt affect how roadworthy it 
was.
Mr P then instructed his own independent engineer to get alternative opinion. This engineer 
was of the view that the motorbike wasnt of satisfactory quality. He listed several 
manufacturing issues and faults. This included corrosion to various parts which are 
excessive for the age and mileage and of particular concern was the corrosion to the brakes 
causing them to seize, he also said the paintwork and corrosion protection used on the 
motorbike were of poor quality. 
Mr P wanted to reject the motorbike but MotoNovo didnt agree he was entitled to do so. It 
said that the issues with the motorbike were down to a lack of correct maintenance by Mr P 
and not as a result of anything that was inherently wrong with the motorbike. It said it would 
be willing to look into the repair of the gear selector, but Mr P would need to have made the 
motorbike mobile again by replacing the corroded brakes. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said the level of corrosion on 
the motorbike was excessive and that both reports had noted the level of corrosion. He said 
he was persuaded by the report Mr P provided which said the wear was excessive for the 
age and mileage. He said this was because he didnt think it would be reasonably to expect 
that level of wear in just a few months and a few thousand miles of use. He recommended 
the motorbike was rejected and that Mr P received a refund of his deposit and the cost of the 
repairs and parts hed paid for as well as £200 for the inconvenience he was caused. 
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, it said the dealership had said the 
corrosion  particularly to the brakes  was caused by it having been driven on salted roads 
and the parts not being cleaned properly after use. It said this was therefore not a 
manufacturing issues but lack of proper maintenance. 
It said many of the other problems had been traced to water ingress which were due to Mr P 
not keeping the motorbike covered when not in use. It said Mr Ps engineer wasnt 
independent so couldnt be relied on as well as the engineer it instructed. It said the 
dealership, manufacturer and the independent engineer all agree the majority of the issues 
with the motorbike are due to lack of maintenance by Mr P. It said it isnt reasonable to place 
more weight on one engineers opinion when three other reputable sources disagree with 
those conclusions. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The hire purchase agreement Mr P signed is a regulated consumer credit agreement, so 
this service can consider complaints relating to it. Under the hire purchase agreement, 
MotoNovo is also the supplier of the motorbike and is therefore responsible for a complaint 
about its quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implies a term into any contract to supply goods that 
those goods will be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is taken to be what a reasonable 
person would expect, taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all other 
relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant circumstances include  but arent 
limited to  the age and mileage of the motorbike and the cash price.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability.
The motorbike Mr P acquired was brand new and cost £2,599. My starting point therefore is 
that a reasonable person would expect the motorbike to be of a higher standard than one 
which was used and more road worn. And given that it was brand new, I think it would be 
reasonable to expect it to be free from defects for a considerable period of time. 
Both MotoNovo and the independent engineer it instructed have referred to the motorbike 
being a lower end quality bike which is reflected in the cash price. The inference here 
appears to be that it ought to be reasonable to expect issues to develop more quickly than 
for a more expensive motorbike. I accept the cash price will be a factor when considering 
what is considered satisfactory, however Id still consider a brand new motorbike to be free from defects for a considerable time. 
It seems MotoNovo doesnt dispute the motorbike has had various problems, albeit it thinks 
many of those are due to Mr Ps lack of proper maintenance. The issue for me to decide 
here is whether the problems Mr P has experienced with the motorbike made it of 
unsatisfactory quality. 
In addition to MotoNovo and Mr P, four other parties have commented on the condition of 
the motorbike. These are the supplying dealership, the manufacturer and two engineers (one 
instructed by MotoNovo and one by Mr P). Ive carefully considered all the comments and 
evidence provided, having done so, Im more persuaded by the conclusion in the report 
supplied by Mr P. Ill explain why. 
First, I note MotoNovo says Mr Ps engineer wasnt an independent engineer. MotoNovo 
appears to agree its unlikely Mr P has any personal connection to the engineer so Im 
unsure why it feels the conclusions arent independent. Mr P has instructed a professional to 
give their view on the condition of the motorbike, this is no different to what MotoNovo did 
with their chosen engineer. It says Mr Ps report is full of opinion. But again this is no 
different to the report it commissioned by their engineer. Both reports detail what in the 
engineers opinion is wrong with the motorbike and what the cause of those issues are. 
I therefore see no reason to place any less weight on Mr Ps report than I would MotoNovos. 
For clarity, Ive given each equal weight and considered which report is more persuasive, 
taking into account the wider circumstances and evidence. 
One of the key issues here is the corrosion to the motorbike and in particular to the brakes 
which have caused them to seize and make it inoperable. The manufacturer declined to 
replace them under warranty as it said they had seized due to lack of maintenance. 
However, it doesnt appear that the manufacturer has inspected the brakes, nor considered 
the overall history of the motorbike when forming that opinion. From everything Ive seen, it 
appears the manufacturer was just sent some photos of the corrosion. So I dont think any 
definitive or helpful conclusions can therefore be drawn from what the manufacturer has 
said. 
The dealership says the corrosion on the brakes is due to lack of maintenance, and 
specifically that Mr P didnt clean them appropriately after driving on salted roads. And it is 
these comments that MotoNovo has sought to rely on. However, neither of the independent 
engineers were of the view that this was the cause. So, I dont agree with MotoNovo when it 
says everyone except Mr Ps engineer agree on the cause of the corrosion. 
MotoNovos report says the corrosion to the brakes was caused almost certainly due to lack 
of use. This comment is particularly relevant because the dealership has repeatedly 
mentioned that Mr P has had above average use of the motorbike in the time its been in his 
possession. This doesnt appear to have been disputed by anyone. Therefore, MotoNovos 
engineer has clearly misdiagnosed the cause of the brakes seizing because it cant be due 
to lack of use. It is this discrepancy that leads me to be less persuaded by the overall 
conclusions reached by MotoNovos chosen engineer. 
Further, other than the manufacturer  who Ive mentioned didnt inspect the brakes 
themselves and are arguably not independent  only the supplying dealership believes the 
corrosion to the brakes is caused by Mr P not cleaning off road salt. Given two independent 
engineers dont appear to agree with this conclusion, Im satisfied, on balance that the 
corrosion hasnt been caused by Mr P not cleaning road salt from the motorbike. 
It seems there is no dispute that the motorbike has corroded on a number of parts. 
MotoNovos engineer seems to accept that some of that corrosion might be premature as it hasnt said they are due to general expected wear or lack of maintenance. However, its said 
that because these issues dont affect the roadworthiness of the motorbike it doesnt think it 
makes it of unsatisfactory quality. Mr Ps engineer says all of the corrosion has appeared 
much sooner than would be expected of a motorbike of this age and mileage. 
From reviewing the pictures, it seems to me that the corrosion is similar on all parts of the 
motorbike. Its unclear why MotoNovos engineer has concluded some of the corrosion 
(specifically just on the parts that are barely visible or dont impact driveability) are likely to 
be due to a fault (as it has recommended they be rectified), but the other areas are due to 
expected wear and tear. As there is no explanation provided for this discrepancy, I cant 
place as much weight on the conclusions they reached. 
Conversely, Mr Ps report gives a detailed breakdown of why the engineer feels it is a 
manufacturing defect that has caused the corrosion to occur on all of the separate parts of 
the motorbike. The engineer has also provided photographs for each issue he refers to in 
order to demonstrate the point being made. So I think the report provided by Mr P is more 
detailed and gives more thorough explanations about the cause of the corrosion. 
Ive also considered that Mr P had the motorbike serviced at the supplying dealership only 
around two months before the brakes seized. And the dealership had the motorbike in for an 
additional inspection one month later. It seems the brakes were still in a serviceable 
condition at this point as the user manual says the servicing agent should check their 
operation. So the brakes deteriorated very quickly due to the corrosion. Given how soon this 
occurred Im not persuaded this was caused by any lack of maintenance, particularly as 
Mr P did take the motorbike in for servicing at the appropriate timeframes. 
Overall, Im satisfied, on balance that the corrosion has occurred prematurely and not 
because of anything Mr P did wrong. And in any event, I dont think a reasonable person 
would expect this level of corrosion so soon on a brand new motorbike, irrespective of any 
maintenance requirements. Im therefore satisfied the motorbike was not sufficiently durable 
and not of satisfactory quality. 
Mr P has listed several other problems hes experienced with the motorbike in addition to the 
corrosion. I wont repeat those all here, but its clear hes had various repairs carried out in 
the short time hes had possession of the motorbike. It seems MotoNovos engineer accepts 
the fault with the gears is likely to still be present and this is something Mr P has complained 
about previously. The supplying dealership has attempted to remedy this issue once already 
without success. So overall, Im satisfied there have been a number of problems that have 
developed quickly which lead me to conclude the motorbike wasnt reasonably durable in 
other aspects too. 
Putting things right
 I think the fair and reasonable remedy here would be to allow Mr P to reject the motorbike. 
Im satisfied it wasnt of satisfactory quality as it has had a number of repairs carried out on it 
already, some of which dont appear to have remedied the previously reported faults and it 
has suffered considerable corrosion in a short space of time. 
MotoNovo should therefore arrange collection of the motorbike at no cost to Mr P. It should 
also end the finance agreement with nothing further to pay and remove any adverse 
information from his credit file. 
I understand Mr P has paid for various replacement parts on the motorbike. Given I dont 
think it was of satisfactory quality, it would be reasonable for MotoNovo to refund what Mr P 
has paid for those parts too (subject to him providing proof of purchase to MotoNovo). It should also add 8% simple interest per year from the date of each purchase to the date of 
settlement. 
Mr P wasnt able to use the motorbike between March 2020 and August 2020, which is when 
he replaced the various parts to make it mobile again. So, I think its reasonable that 
MotoNovo refunds six of the monthly repayments hes made, as well as his deposit of £600. 
It should add 8% simple interest per year from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement.
Lastly, Mr P has clearly gone through unnecessary inconvenience in having to take the 
motorbike back and forth to the supplying dealership for various repairs and to report the 
problems hed been experiencing. In the circumstances, I think MotoNovo should also pay 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited trading as 
MotoNovo Finance to:
1. End the finance agreement with nothing further to pay.
2. Collect the motorbike at no cost to Mr P.
3. Refund the £600 deposit.
4. Refund the six monthly repayments between March 2020 and August 2020.
5. Refund the costs Mr P incurred for replacing parts (on receipt of evidence he incurred 
these costs). 
6. Add 8% simple interest per year to points 3, 4 and 5 above, from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement. 
7. Remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman