DRN-4132615
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc hasnt refunded a failed internal money transfer. 
What happened
On 29 September 2022 Mr B asked Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) to transfer £10,000 from his 
current account to a friend who lived and banked abroad with another bank, P. 
Lloyds didnt have a direct relationship with P and so it used an intermediary bank, which did 
have a relationship with P, to make the transfer. However, on 2 October 2022 the 
intermediary bank rejected the payment and returned the money to Lloyds.  
Mr B then asked Lloyds to resend the payment via a different intermediary bank. 
On 4 October 2022 Lloyds sent the funds to D who sent the funds onto a third bank, E, 
which had an existing relationship with P. 
Unfortunately, a few days later Mr Bs friend said they hadnt received the payment and so 
Mr B contacted Lloyds to request the money be returned. He later raised a complaint about 
Lloyds failure to return his funds. 
Lloyds looked into things and contacted both D, E and P. D advised Lloyds that it had sent 
the funds to E and E had sent the funds to P. At Lloyds request E tried to recall the money, 
but P didnt do so and P didnt respond to requests Lloyds about this either. 
Lloyds told Mr B it was not responsible for the fact P wasnt responding to its requests, so it 
didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It advised Mr B that it wasnt able to return the funds but it 
acknowledged that there was an initial delay in sending the payment and it offered £50 
compensation for this. 
Mr B remained unhappy and was of the view Lloyds ought to refund the money. So, he 
brought his complaint to our Service. 
Our Investigator looked into things but didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They said that 
international transfers often cant be reversed. They were satisfied this wasnt Lloydss error 
and that Lloyds had made reasonable efforts to recover the funds. Whilst they empathised 
with Mr Bs situation, they felt Lloyds had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr B disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Lloyds identified an initial delay to the payment and offered compensation for 
this. However, Mr B hasnt indicated to our Service that this is something hed like us to 
consider further. The complaint Mr B has asked our Service to consider is Lloydss failure to 
refund his £10,000 payment. So, this is all that Ill be commenting on in this decision
I was really sorry to read about the difficult circumstances Mr B has found himself in. I dont 
underestimate the impact losing this money has had on him and Im also aware that hes 
been experiencing some very difficult personal circumstances. I recognise that this must 
have been incredibly upsetting and frustrating.
I think it would be helpful to begin by explaining that my role here is to look at the action that 
Lloyds took and whether it made a mistake. This means I would only direct Lloyds to do 
something differently if I felt it had acted unfairly. And after considering the evidence 
provided, I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong  Ill explain why.
In terms of the payment itself  intermediary banks are often part of any process to transfer 
funds internationally. From the evidence Ive seen, Lloyds made the payment correctly and 
in line with its usual process for doing so. 
The evidence indicates that the payment was made to P but P has refused to respond to 
requests for the funds to be returned. Ultimately Ps actions are outside of Lloydss control 
because P was not acting on behalf of Lloyds. This means I dont think the issues with this 
payment are Lloydss fault. 
I also think Lloyds has acted fairly in trying to help Mr B recover the payment. Ive seen 
evidence to show Lloyds attempted to contact D, E and P on multiple occasions in an effort 
to recover the funds. Ultimately it could only do so much as it didnt have control of the 
funds. 
I appreciate why this will be an incredibly disappointing outcome for Mr B, but whilst I 
empathise with his situation, I can only consider the actions of Lloyds. And Im satisfied 
Lloyds acted reasonably and isnt responsible for whats happened to Mr Bs funds.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman