DRN-1464808
 
The complaint
Miss D says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Satsuma provided to Miss D between May 
2016 and April 2019. Miss D borrowed amounts ranging between £200 and £800 to be 
repaid in instalments over six to twelve months. There was a nine month gap between Miss 
D repaying loan two and taking out loan three. There are amounts outstanding for loans 
three to five. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. Miss D disagreed and so the complaint 
was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
Satsuma asked Miss D for information about her income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Miss D said she earned about £1,350 a month. She said her outgoings ranged 
between £100 and £570 a month. I cant see that Satsumas credit checks found anything 
untoward that should have prompted further checks. 
I think the gap between the repayment of loan two and Miss D taking out loan three was 
significant. And so I think Satsuma could reasonably treat loan three as the start of a new 
chain of lending and carry out the affordability checks that were appropriate. 
I think Satsumas checks went far enough for loans one to three. Given the loan amounts, 
what was apparent about Miss Ds circumstances at the time and her history with Satsuma, I 
dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Miss D 
provided or the information Satsuma shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Miss D was saying. These three loans looked affordable 
for Miss D, so I cant say Satsuma was wrong to have provided them.
I think Satsuma should have made better checks for loans four and five. Miss D still had loan 
three outstanding and she increased her borrowing and monthly repayments significantly. I 
think Satsuma should then have verified what Miss D told it about her circumstances, 
including her other short-term borrowing, to check that she could sustainably repay her 
loans. 
Miss D said that loans four and five shouldnt have been provided. She said the repayments 
for them were unmanageable. I was sorry to hear of Miss Ds financial difficulties. But from 
the information available I cant say that Satsuma should have known that Miss D would be 
unable to sustainably repay loans four and five. 
The combined repayments for loans three to five meant that the highest expected monthly 
repayment was large. But I cant say that it was significant enough to stop Satsuma from 
approving loan five. I also cant say that the pattern of lending should have alerted Satsuma 
that Miss D was experiencing financial difficulties as this was Miss Ds third loan in this chain 
of lending. From the information Satsuma had available, the loans looked affordable. So I 
cant say it was wrong for Satsuma to have provided loans four and five. 
I can see that Miss D has amounts outstanding for loans three to five. When a consumer 
experiences financial difficulties, we expect the business to respond positively and 
sympathetically.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7July2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman