DRN-4486597
The complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has refused to cover his loss of rental income
after a claim was made under a property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P owns a leasehold flat that was rented out. The management company held a property
insurance policy with AXA which covered a block of flats, including Mr Ps.
An escape of water caused damage to Mr Ps flat. The claim for damage to the flat was
accepted by AXA, but Mr P also wanted AXA to cover his loss of rental income after his
tenant moved out. AXA said there wasnt cover for loss of rent for leaseholders under the
policy. Unhappy with this, Mr P brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator ultimately recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought the policy
wasnt clear as it didnt specifically exclude loss of rent for leaseholders. She recommended
that AXA consider Mr Ps loss of rent claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 November 2023. Heres what I said:
I havent commented on every point that Mr P has made, as this reflects that this Service is
informal. But Id like to reassure him that I have considered all the points hes raised.
The policy says:
We will cover you for loss of rental income if the property insured under the 
Buildings section is damaged during the period of insurance and as a result your 
business is interrupted or interfered with.
Words in bold are specifically defined within the policy.
The policy defines you/your as:
The person(s), firm, company or organisation shown in your schedule as the 
insured.
The policy schedule names the management company as the insured.
The policy defines business as:
The business described in your schedule including
1 the management and upkeep of your property and land at the same address
2 providing and managing facilities primarily used for fire prevention, safety or 
security at your property
3 private work completed with your prior consent by an employed person for 
your directors, partners or officers
4 the sale or disposal of business assets
The policy schedule says the insureds business description is property management.
Under the buildings section of the policy (not the rental income section), it says the interest
of the leaseholders in the individual portions of the property is noted and should be advised
to AXA in the event of a claim. That means any leaseholders may have an interest in a claim
made under the buildings section of the policy, but it doesnt mean they are the insured.
Im satisfied the policy is clear that only the management company as the named insured is
covered for any loss of rental income, in the event their property management business is
impacted. Mr P is not a named insured and so he cannot claim for this.
I appreciate the management company doesnt rent out any of the property and so they
wouldnt be able to make a claim for this. If the management company thought the policy
included loss of rent cover for those leaseholders who chose to rent out their properties, they
would need to raise any concerns about this directly with their broker who arranged the
policy. But Im satisfied this wasnt the risk that AXA took on.
Mr P has referred to the policys failure of third-party insurances cover. It seems to me this
only applies if the lessee or freeholder has failed to arrange or maintain insurance to comply
with the terms of the lease. Mr P has provided a copy of the lease, and I cant see that he
was required to take out loss of rent cover. So I dont agree with him that this section
applies.
I sympathise with the situation Mr P found himself, but I think it was reasonable for AXA to
say the policy doesnt cover him for loss of rental income.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision. 
Mr P responded with the following main points:
There is no basis under the policy for AXA to accept liability under the Buildings 
section, and then refuse liability under the rental income section.
Any interest that is acknowledged under the Buildings section of the policy, is also a 
relevant interest under the rental income section. Mr P says thats because the rental 
income section protects the same interest that has a valid claim under the Buildings 
section.
If AXAs liability was intended to be severable under each section, then this should 
have been set out at the beginning of the policy.
Where there is damage to property under the Buildings section, and that damage has 
resulted in a loss of rental income, then the rental income section applies to that 
claim. 
My provisional decision rejected his complaint under the failure of third-party 
insurance cover, on the basis that he didnt have any obligation to take out loss of 
rent cover under the lease. He says the special conditions applicable sets out the 
opposite requirement as a condition of coverage, as it says the cover will only be 
effective if AXA is the sole provider of buildings insurance and where the 
management company have an obligation to arrange such insurance. Mr P thinks 
these are contradictory, and any ambiguity should be interpreted in his favour.The Buildings section includes alternative residential accommodation cover. AXA 
accepted this in respect of another leaseholder. When Mr P queried this with AXA, he 
was told that it only applies to tenants living in the property at the time. However, the 
policy doesnt say that tenants must be living in the property at the time. Mr P also 
questions why the policy doesnt specifically exclude cover where the property has 
been sub-let if thats what AXA intended. 
The policy includes inadvertent omission to insure cover. Mr P makes a few points 
about this, and says the policy doesnt require the management company to arrange 
insurance in respect of loss of rent specifically.
Mr P refers to the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). Mr P says that CIDRA (and this Services published guidance in respect of 
misrepresentation) puts the onus on an insurer to ask clear and specific questions. 
Mr P thinks my provisional decision ignores the law and this Services own guidance 
and instead puts the onus on the insured party.
AXA responded to confirm it had no further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has provided a lengthy response to my provisional decision. Ive only summarised his 
points above. Whilst Ive carefully considered all of his submissions, again, I havent 
responded to every point hes made. Thats not meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the 
informal nature of this Service. 
I dont agree with Mr P that AXA cannot accept liability under the Buildings section of the 
policy, and then refuse liability under the rental income section. I explained in my provisional 
decision that only the insured is covered for loss of rental income, and Mr P isnt named as 
an insured. 
Mr P thinks the policy definition of you is being selectively applied in the policy. He points 
out that under the Buildings section of the policy, it says that if any property is damaged by a 
listed cause, then AXA will pay you. I appreciate AXA paid Mr P for the damage to the 
property, but this was only after it obtained the insureds permission to do so. I dont agree 
the policy definition of you is being selectively applied.
As I said in my provisional decision, the Buildings section of the policy notes the interest of 
leaseholders in the individual portions of the property. Mr P argues this also extends to the 
rental income section. I dont agree, the policy doesnt cover loss of rental income for 
individual leaseholders. 
Its common for an insurance policy to have different sections of cover, some of which may 
apply to a claim and some which do not. The policy wording for each section should be read 
to establish what is covered. 
The special condition under the failure of third-party insurance cover says the cover will only 
take effect if AXA is the sole provider of Buildings insurance for the insureds properties and 
where the insured has an obligation to arrange such insurance. I dont see any ambiguity 
here. If, for example, Mr P were required under the lease to arrange loss of rent cover, then 
so long as AXA were the sole provider of Buildings insurance for the management companys properties where they had an obligation to arrange buildings insurance, then the 
policy would respond if Mr P had failed to arrange or maintain that loss of rent insurance. I 
therefore remain satisfied this section doesnt apply.
The alternative residential accommodation cover says that AXA will pay the insured for costs 
of reasonable alternative accommodation for their tenants while the residential portion of the 
property cant be lived in. Under the lease, Mr P is the insureds tenant. But Mr P didnt need 
to find alternative accommodation as a result of the damage. So I think it was reasonable for 
AXA to say it didnt need to pay for this. I dont think AXA needed to specifically exclude sub-
tenants. 
Ive looked at the inadvertent omission to insure cover under the policy. This covers 
buildings, and rent receivable under the rental income section, in situations where the 
insured has an obligation to insure but which have inadvertently been left uninsured. The 
management company didnt have an obligation (under the lease or any other agreement) to 
insure loss of rent for leaseholders, and so this wasnt inadvertently left uninsured. Im 
satisfied this cover doesnt therefore apply.
In my provisional decision, I said that if the management company thought the policy would 
include loss of rent cover for leaseholders who chose to rent out their properties, they would 
need to raise any concerns about this with their broker. Mr P has referred to CIDRA and 
says my provisional decision goes against this. CIDRA is the relevant law in cases when an 
insurer alleges that a consumer has made a misrepresentation when taking out an insurance 
policy. That isnt the case here, and so CIDRA isnt relevant. 
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr P, but I remain of the view that it was reasonable 
for AXA to say the policy doesnt cover him for loss of rent.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman