DRN-3799091
The complaint
Mr P is complaining that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) prevented him from 
buying units in a specific fund SUK2 in late February 2020. Hes also complaining about 
the way IISL handled his questions.
What happened
Towards the end of February 2020, Mr P wanted to purchase some additional units in SUK2. 
He had a small holding of these units which hed bought in 2013 using a predecessor of IISL. 
When Mr P tried to buy additional units, the website wouldnt let him. He says he tried on 
multiple occasions with no success. He also says he tried to phone IISL but the line was 
constantly engaged. On 28 February, Mr P sent a secure message to IISL to question why 
he couldnt buy the units. IISL replied on 5 March, telling him that SUK2 was classified as a 
complex instrument and due to regulatory changes hed need to pass a risk questionnaire 
before he could buy the units he wanted. 
Mr P didnt complete the questionnaire or buy any units. He replied to IISL a week later 
expressing his disappointment. IISL replied again on 18 March and there was no further 
communication between the two parties until Mr P raised further questions in late 
October 2020. He explained that hed held the small number of SUK2 units deliberately to 
make a future substantial purchase easier and asked about the new regulations. He also 
expressed his frustration at the length of time it had taken IISL to reply on a time-critical 
matter. 
IISL treated Mr Ps message of late October as a complaint. In their final response they said 
the concept of appropriateness testing had been introduced by the regulators in 2007 and 
that Mr P had completed an appropriateness assessment before his 2013 purchase of units. 
IISL noted that there had been some confusion but explained that the regulation hadnt 
changed between the 2013 purchase and the 2020 attempted purchase. IISL then said that 
because Mr P hadnt traded any complex instruments for over twelve months, hed need to 
complete another appropriateness assessment when he next wanted to trade complex 
instruments. 
Mr P was unhappy with IISLs response  he said he hadnt been aware that the assessment 
needed to be completed and thought it should be unnecessary given he already held units in 
the same fund and that he could have sold those units in February 2020 if hed wanted. He 
was upset that IISL had given differing answers and inaccurate information about the 
regulation and reasoning that he couldnt buy the units. Mr P was also upset with how the 
matter had been handled  he hadnt expected IISL to treat it as an official complaint and 
was upset about the whole process.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service and an investigator looked into it. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. In essence he said it was reasonable for IISL to require Mr P to 
complete an appropriateness test. He added that Mr P could have mitigated his potential 
losses and didnt make any effort to do so. And he said we dont have the jurisdiction to look 
into Mr Ps complaint about IISLs handling of the issue because complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity. As Mr P wasnt happy with our investigators view he asked for an 
ombudsman to look into the matter  and its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt fully agree with our investigator. So I issued a 
provisional decision on 13 October 2022. In this I said:
In my view, the complaint covers two main issues  the fact that Mr P couldnt trade his 
units when he wanted to, and how IISL handled his queries about that issue. I agree 
with our investigators view on the first issue, but our investigator didnt look into the 
second part  saying it was out of our jurisdiction. So Ive written a provisional decision 
to cover this aspect. From what Ive seen though, Im not inclined to uphold this part of 
the complaint either. 
I can see Mr P feels strongly about the matter. Hes raised many points of complaint 
and feels he lost out on an opportunity to make £20,000. He also feels IISL have lied 
to him. I appreciate the lengthy explanations Mr Ps sent in but will focus here on the 
key points relevant to the outcome.
Was it reasonable for IISL to require Mr P to complete an appropriateness 
assessment?
The regulations set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in their Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) require businesses to ask clients to provide information 
about their knowledge and experience in the relevant investment field so that the 
business can assess the appropriateness of the product for the client. As Mr P points 
out, theres no requirement that this is reassessed periodically. But COBS 10.2.4 does 
say that a business shouldnt rely on information that is manifestly out of date. 
By 2020, to IISLs knowledge, Mr P hadnt traded complex instruments for over six 
years. Im satisfied that this is long enough to say that the previous assessment hed 
completed was out of date  so it was reasonable for IISL to ask Mr P to complete 
another assessment. 
Did IISL communicate that requirement clearly to Mr P?
Ive seen IISLs screenshot showing what Mr P would have seen when attempting to 
buy the shares. Although its not particularly prominent, the page clearly says: Your 
account is not currently set up to trade complex instrumentsyou will need to 
complete our Appropriateness Assessment Form online to allow you to do this. It 
would have been straightforward for Mr P to follow the link and complete the test.
I appreciate Mr P says he didnt realise the assessment was necessary. But Im 
persuaded he had the prompt and opportunity to complete the required form. In his 
communications to us, Mr P said he simply didnt think the prompt applied to him and 
was designed only for newcomers to the market.
Mr P says he was trying to trade from Wednesday to Friday but he didnt message IISL 
to ask why he couldnt until the Friday afternoon. I understand that the matter was time 
critical and can appreciate that it was frustrating not to receive a reply to his message 
until the following Thursday. But the reply clearly explained what was needed and 
where to find the form. Furthermore, the unit price on that Thursday was actually lower 
than it had been on 28 February. So, if Mr P had followed IISLs directions on that day 
he would have been able to take advantage of the opportunity hed spotted. Inaccurate information and complaint handling
Mr Ps complained at length about IISLs handling of the matter. Among other things 
hes noted:
Some of IISLs messages referenced incorrect dates;
IISL initially told him that the need for the appropriateness assessment was due to 
regulatory changes but they didnt reply when he asked what the regulation was 
and when it was enacted;
IISL hadnt clearly informed their customers of a change in policy in relation to 
appropriateness assessments;
IISL decided to treat Mr Ps questions as a complaint when he hadnt intended 
that; and
IISL called him on a Sunday to discuss the matter and didnt provide a response 
by letter when theyd said they would.
Our investigator didnt give a view on these points, saying that some were out of 
jurisdiction and others were insignificant. However, Mr Ps queries about why he 
couldnt trade are directly related to the financial service being provided by IISL and 
how IISL administers that business. So my view is that we can consider these 
complaint points  Ive addressed them in turn below.
I can see that IISL have made some errors in their communications with Mr P. For 
example, one of their messages referenced 28 January when it should have said 28 
February. And their statement due to regulatory changes SUK2 is now classified as a 
complex instrument was unhelpful as this wasnt a recent change  SUK2 had been 
classified as a complex instrument when Mr P had purchased units in 2013.
Mr Ps said he should have been made aware in advance of the change in policy that 
would require him to complete a new appropriateness assessment. But I dont think 
this was a result of change in policy. The terms and conditions from IISLs predecessor 
dated 2012 set out the need for the business to assess appropriateness, and the fact 
that the business might need to update its assessment in the future. So Im inclined to 
say the relevant terms and conditions have been in place since Mr P had previously 
traded in SUK2 units and any notification to Mr P of changes in policy wouldnt have 
impacted this issue.
As our investigator noted in his view, the FCA defines a complaint as an expression of 
dissatisfaction. On 20 October 2020, Mr P described IISLs previous response as 
totally unacceptable. This seems to me a clear expression of dissatisfaction and 
therefore Im inclined to say it was appropriate for IISL to treat Mr Ps concerns as a 
formal complaint.
Mr Ps also complained about IISL calling him on a Sunday, and that IISL sent their 
response to the complaint over secure message rather than by post. Ive listened to a 
recording of the phone call and the IISL representative began by asking whether it was 
a good time to talk. He explained that he was doing some overtime. Although he was 
clearly a bit surprised, Mr P didnt say that it was a bad time, and he entered into a 
conversation with the IISL representative. I dont think its unreasonable for IISL to call 
Mr P on a Sunday  had Mr P wanted to avoid the conversation he could have ignored 
the phone call or told the representative he didnt want to speak at that time. 
Finally, thinking about the written response to Mr Ps complaint, Mr P clearly said he 
didnt like doing things over the phone and that hed like the response in writing. He 
didnt specify that this needed to be in the post. However, the IISL representative did refer to a letter so I can understand why Mr P expected a letter that arrived in the post 
rather than on a secure message. The IISL representative could have been clearer on 
the phone that the written response would be by secure message. I dont think thats 
an unreasonable medium given that Mr P raised his concerns and questions via 
secure message in the first place.
Summary
Taking everything together, Ive agreed with our investigator that IISL didnt do 
anything wrong in asking Mr P to complete an appropriateness test before they 
allowed him to trade the SUK2 units.
In relation to customer service, Im inclined to say IISL could have done some things 
better  there were some inaccuracies in their messages and it wasnt clear on the 
phone that the written response to Mr Ps complaint would be provided by secure 
message rather than a posted letter. However, Im inclined to say the impact of these 
things on Mr P was minimal and therefore that IISL dont need to do anything further. 
Mr P didnt agree with my provisional decision. His comments were lengthy. Amongst other 
things he said he felt that IISL had repeatedly lied to him, and that wed taken IISLs word 
over his. He was upset that IISL had changed the reason for his not being able to trade from 
a change in regulation to internal policy and said that hes never been told that he might 
need to take another appropriateness test. As far as he was concerned, hed done this once 
and wouldnt need to again. Ive considered everything Mr Ps said but focussed here on the 
most relevant points. 
In brief, IISLs policy on appropriateness testing is almost unchanged from the predecessor 
schemes policy. Both of these say Typically, we will ask you for this information during the 
account opening procedure but we may need to ask you for additional information in the 
future... Its not a change in policy that allows IISL to ask Mr P to complete another 
appropriateness test, but a policy thats been in place since he first traded in SUK2. The 
FCA rules around appropriateness testing are not specific in how often appropriateness tests 
should be carried out  but Im satisfied it wasnt unreasonable for IISL to ask Mr P to 
complete another one nearly seven years after hed previously traded complex instruments.
I cant see that IISL intentionally lied to Mr P. Im aware they told him at one point that the 
need for him to complete an appropriateness test was down to a change in regulation  but 
this was simply human error, for which IISL later apologised.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr P could have bought the units he wanted to if 
hed completed the assessment. Its a short online assessment which allows the customer to 
trade as soon as its completed. If Mr P had done this, even as late as 5 March (when IISL 
replied to his secure message explicitly telling him he needed to complete the 
appropriateness assessment), hed have been able to make a significant profit. So I cant 
hold IISL responsible for Mr Ps perceived losses.  
To conclude, my view is unchanged from that set out in my provisional decision and Im not 
upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Interactive Investor 
Services Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman