DRN-1285860
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nottingham Building Society mis-sold Mr and Mrs F payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Looking at how the PPI is mentioned in the documents Ive seen, I think Nottingham Building 
Society probably made Mr and Mrs F aware that the PPI was optional, but that they still 
chose to take it. And in fact Mr and Mrs F arent saying they were given no option about 
taking the PPI, but rather that (unlike Mrs F) Mr F was persuaded to take the PPI, even 
though they now believe it was unnecessary. Mrs F says her salary would have covered 
Mr Fs income if he lost it, and that they had savings.  
I dont think Nottingham Building Society formally recommended the PPI, in the technical 
sense of saying it was suitable for their particular needs. This means it didnt have to check if 
the PPI fitted their circumstances. Instead it would have been for Mr and Mrs F to decide 
whether it was suitable.  But, even if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably 
have been an appropriate one in their circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to 
pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And I think it likely the amount of mortgage 
and length of repayments would have been set at a level that Mr and Mrs F could afford, 
whilst covering all their other costs, on both their incomes  so a loss of some of that income 
might have caused some difficulties. 
In any case, the PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr F received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr and Mrs F would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for paying the mortgage 
and other living costs. This all would have put them in a more secure position, if theyd 
eventually lost income due to Mr Fs long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been 
told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.Its hard to know how well Nottingham Building Society explained the costs and benefits of 
the policy. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would 
have affected whether Mr and Mrs F took the PPI. I say this because, as Ive explained 
above, it could have put them in a more secure financial position if Mr F lost his income, and 
I dont think fuller information would have changed how useful the PPI seemed.  
Its possible Nottingham Building Society didnt clearly point out the main things the policy 
didnt cover. But its unlikely Mr F would have been affected by any of these. And theyd be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation 
changed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman