DRN-4335330
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car supplied to him under a personal contract 
purchase (PCP) agreement with NIIB Group Limited, trading as Northridge Finance 
(Northridge). 
What happened
In April 2021 Mr M took out a PCP agreement with Northridge. This was for a new car with a 
cash price of £25,319.80, purchased from one of the manufacturers dealerships. Mr M 
agreed to pay a deposit of £2,500, with the rest repayable over 48 months using the finance 
agreement. 
Mr M says he had to take the car back to the dealership in August 2021 due to a problem 
with the parking sensor. He says he was initially told this was accidental damage caused by 
a stone chip on one of the sensors, which wouldnt be covered under the manufacturers 
warranty. Mr M says he disputed this, and it was eventually resolved.
Mr M says the dealership also carried out a software update in August 2021 in response to a 
manufacturers recall  and that this caused some of the cars systems to stop working 
properly. He says he had to take it back for more software updates to get this sorted. 
Mr M says he continued to have issues with the car. In August 2022 he complained to 
Northridge about problems hed been experiencing, including:
Failure of the air conditioning.
Issues with sensors randomly triggering warnings, such as SOS and front sensor 
warnings.
Engine and drive train failure. 
Mr M said the car had lost power on two occasions, one of which almost caused an accident 
because it refused to accelerate whilst he was joining a motorway. Northridge didnt give Mr 
M a final response to this complaint, so in December 2022 he asked us to look into it for him.
Our investigator asked Northgate for information about the case. Northgate responded in 
March 2023, saying the dealership had made an offer to end the agreement and find Mr M a 
replacement car. Mr M told us he didnt want to accept that offer, because the replacement 
cars the dealership had offered him would cost more money.
Our investigator said she didnt think the car had been of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied, due to the fault with the air conditioning system. She didnt think Mr M had incurred 
any loss, because that fault was repaired without charge for him. But she thought Northridge 
should pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that any of the other issues Mr M had told us about also 
meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Mr M said a brand new car shouldnt have issues every month  and that it had been at the 
garage more than six times in less than two years. He said thered been several software 
faults which cleared themselves after turning the car off, which meant they werent stored in 
the cars memory. He provided photos of dashboard warnings hed seen. He said he 
considered these to be faults, regardless of whether or not the garage had been able to 
replicate them. 
Mr M said hed had to pay the cost of petrol to get these issues investigated, as well as 
losing earnings due to having to take time off work and spending several hours of his own 
time to raise a complaint. He didnt think £150 was enough to compensate him for this - 
especially bearing in mind the very high value of the payments hed been making for this 
premium brand of car.  
Northridge said they were happy to settle the complaint in the way our investigator had 
recommended. But as Mr M disagreed, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
After reviewing the evidence, I issued a provisional decision saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The agreement Mr M entered into was a PCP agreement so this service can consider 
complaints relating to it. Under this type of agreement, Northgate is also the supplier of the 
car and is therefore responsible for a complaint about its quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of goods includes their state and condition. It says things like 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. It seems likely that in a case involving a car, the relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, mileage, and 
history.
I bear in mind that this was a brand new car - and this is generally considered to be a 
premium brand. So, I think it was reasonable for Mr M to expect that he wouldnt have any 
major issues with it in the first year. Ive considered the evidence Mr M has provided, to 
assess whether I think the problems hes highlighted meant the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
Parking sensor problem and software updates
Mr M says hed had the car less than three months when a problem came to light with the 
parking sensor. Hes told us that software updates were also needed due to a manufacturers recall. He says he had to take the car back to the dealership again due to 
problems with these updates, and that he was given some compensation for this.
Ive seen no further information about what happened here, so Im unable to consider these 
issues. Im pleased to hear both problems were resolved for Mr M. 
Air conditioning problem
Mr M has shown us a copy of an email from the dealership, confirming they saw the car on 
29 July 2022 for Recall and A/C Condenser and on 3 October 2022 for Air con control 
unit. Mr M has also provided a screenshot of the dealerships diagnostic report, saying:
checked and found aircon condenser requires replacing due to a manufacturing defect 
with channel veins on condenser causing leak.
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the car. And as this was 
reported to be due to a manufacturing defect, Im also satisfied that it wouldve been present 
or developing when the car was supplied to Mr M.
Given that this was a brand new car, I think Mr M was entitled to expect all the main features 
to be working correctly. So, I think the defect with the air conditioning system meant the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
I understand this fault was fixed without charge to Mr M.
Dashboard warnings and loss of power
Mr M says hes continued to have issues with sensors randomly triggering warnings about 
faults with the cars systems. Hes provided a number of photos of the dashboard showing 
warnings displayed, and told us dates on which these photos were taken. Ill summarise 
what this information shows:
13 August 2021: Pre sense: fault.
4 October 2021: SOS Emergency call function: fault. Function unavailable.
7 December 2022: Pre sense: fault.
25 February 2023: Vehicle start system: fault
27 March 2023: Pre sense: fault.
28 May 2023: Vehicle start system: fault and Drive system: fault.
Mr M has shown us a report from a breakdown service dated 5 August 2022, at which time 
the car was recorded to have travelled 6,573 miles. It says:
Cylinder no 2/3 misfiring detected.
Hes also provided a screenshot of a diagnostic report from the dealership, saying:
found sporadic misfire fault on cylinder 1 & 2 occurred at the same time and only once. 
Mr M has told us that this was the second time the car had lost power. But the reports show 
the problem didnt happen again when it was test-driven.
I appreciate theres something of a lack of evidence as to whats likely to have caused the 
warnings to be displayed or the car to lose power. But I do think the evidence indicates 
theres something wrong with the car. And although these were intermittent problems, I think 
they were potentially significant. I note in particular that Mr M says on one occasion the car 
wouldnt accelerate as he was joining a motorway. I bear in mind Northgate didnt provide a response to Mr Ms complaint  and they didnt 
provide us with any information about diagnostic work or repairs that have been carried out 
to the car. They told us this was because the complaint was already being investigated by 
the manufacturer/dealership, which ultimately resulted in an offer to end the agreement and 
find Mr M another car. 
In the absence of further information about this, I think it likely Northgate dont dispute that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality due to the various issues Mr M has highlighted. If Im 
mistaken here and Northgate would like me to reconsider this point, Id invite them to forward 
copies of all relevant diagnostic reports and job cards detailing what investigation and repair 
work the dealership has carried out on the car since it was first supplied. 
For these reasons, on balance, I think it most likely that the intermittent problems Mr M has 
reported with warning messages being displayed and the car losing power are due to one or 
more faults. And as these problems came to light within the first year, I dont consider the car 
to have been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M. I think he could reasonably 
expect it to last longer than that without significant issues. 
Putting things right
Mr M has told us that hes continued to have problems with the car, despite several visits to 
the garage to try to diagnose and fix whatever is causing this to happen. So, I dont think it 
would be reasonable for me to direct Northgate to repair the car. 
Mr M says he doesnt want to reject it because all the deals hes been offered would cost 
him more money. He feels strongly that he shouldnt have to pay more because hes been 
forced to trade this car in sooner than he expected. Ive given careful thought to the point 
hes made here.
Ive seen little evidence to help me assess how often these issues are happening. I do 
appreciate that its difficult for Mr M to record evidence of this as hes driving. I dont think the 
problems can be having a significant impact on Mr Ms use of the car, because hes told us 
he may be prepared to keep it. I bear in mind that Mr M may be able to get the issues fixed 
at some point - but I cant say how long it might be before a solution is found. For these 
reasons, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Northridge to reduce Mr 
Ms monthly payments for a set period of time. 
Having thought about all of this, I think Mr M should now be allowed to reject the car. This 
means the agreement should come to an end, and his deposit should be refunded. 
I do think the issues with the car have caused stress and inconvenience for Mr M over many 
months. As well as visits to the garage, hes had to call a breakdown service due to the 
engine misfiring. I think experiencing a loss of power from the engine whilst trying to 
accelerate onto a motorway wouldve been quite frightening. I think Northgate should pay 
him £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.  
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct NIIB Group 
Limited, trading as Northridge Finance to:
End the agreement,
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M,
Refund the £2,500 deposit Mr M paid,
Pay Mr M £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.
Mr M said he was looking to purchase another car. He said there was currently around 
£4,500 equity in the current car, which hed lose if he rejected it. He said hed like to keep 
the car, but for Northridge to return his deposit and pay him £500 compensation. He felt this 
may be best for both parties, as it would avoid Northridge having to incur collection costs.
Northridge responded, saying the lack of information provided to our service wasnt due to 
any inaction on their part. They said Mr M had chosen to liaise directly with the manufacturer 
as his preferred complaint handler - and that this had effectively removed them from the 
complaint outcome process. 
Northridge queried why Mr M would want to keep a car deemed to be of unsatisfactory 
quality. They said this wasnt an outcome they could consider as theyd be responsible if Mr 
M experienced further problems - or a recurrence of previous issues with the car. They said 
they thought the car should be taken back. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M may prefer not to reject the car. In my provisional decision I explained why 
I didnt think it would be fair for me to direct Northridge to reduce his payments for a set 
period of time. For the same reasons, I dont think it would be fair for me to direct Northridge 
to refund Mr M £2,500 due to the issues hes had with the car.
In my provisional decision I explained that Im satisfied Mr M has the right to reject the car. If 
he chooses to exercise that right, hell be entitled to a refund of the £2,500 deposit he paid. 
I remain of the view that it would be fair for Mr M to receive £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes been caused by the issues with this car. That includes 
having to look for another car sooner than he expected. Ive received no new information or 
evidence to persuade me that a greater amount of compensation is justified here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct NIIB Group Limited, trading 
as Northridge Finance to:
End the agreement,
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M,
Refund the £2,500 deposit Mr M paid,
Pay Mr M £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman