DRN-4446174
The complaint
Miss B has complained HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund her for transactions she didnt 
authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Miss B had an account with HSBC. In July 2023, she hired a car from E and made the 
payment of £768.68 using a debit card connected to her HSBC account.
There were a further three transactions to E for £160, £35, and £35 which Miss B said were 
taken from the account by E without her authorisation. She contacted HSBC to complain 
about the transactions and it disputed them with E.
E refunded £116.24, but Miss B wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service about 
the dispute payments. She also said she wanted compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by the delays investigating her claim and the time it had taken HSBC to respond to 
her complaint.
HSBC said it disputed the payments and E refunded £116.24 Miss Bs account on 14 August 
2023. It didnt pursue the claim further and it wrote to Miss B to tell her the claim was 
assumed resolved. It said since she said she was unhappy, it had asked for more 
information so it could review the claim and make further contact with E, but no further 
information was received.
It paid Miss B £100 compensation but it said it didnt accept there had been an error in its 
investigation and it said that if Miss B provided the information it had requested, it would 
continue to review the claim.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained the PIN was 
correctly entered for the first transaction on 31 July 2023 and Miss B wasnt saying she didnt 
authorise it. And she hadnt claimed that anyone else had her card or could have entered her 
PIN without her knowledge. He noted the disputed transactions were done using the card 
details Miss B had provided on 31 July 2023, so he was satisfied she had consented to the 
transactions for the purposes of the Payment Services Regulations. 
Miss B has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. She accepted she 
had authorised one transaction on the day she rented the car (for £768.68) but the other 
three payments were taken without her consent. She explained that she realised E had 
taken the other payments when she checked her statement in the branch.
 
She said she wasnt happy with the £100 compensation HSBC had paid because the 
complaint wasnt looked into properly and it had told her it would refund the payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Miss B feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. 
Miss B accepts she consented to the payment on 31 July 2023 when she rented a car from 
E. She hasnt said she didnt authorise the payment and she hasnt claimed that anyone else 
had her card or entered her PIN without her knowledge. Because of this, Im satisfied Miss B 
authorised the first payment for the purposes of the of the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time.
The three disputed payments were made using the details Miss B provided to E on 31 July 
2023, but she disputes that she authorised E to take those funds from her account. When 
she contacted HSBC to tell it about the disputed payments, it raised a dispute in response to 
which E refunded £116.24, which it passed on to Miss B. HSBC has explained that it didnt 
pursue the full amount because it had assumed the claim was resolved. It has since asked 
Miss B to provide more information to assist it to review the claim, but she hasnt provided 
any more information. 
Ive considered the circumstances and as Miss B didnt respond to HSBCs request for 
further information Im satisfied theres nothing else it could reasonably have done to resolve 
her claim.
Compensation
HSBC has paid Miss B £100 compensation and in the circumstances Im not persuaded that 
shes entitled to anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman