DRN-2955375
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc applied an adverse credit marker on his credit file 
when he had an issue with a payment on his credit card. Hed like this removed.  
What happened
Mr J had an existing credit card with Santander UK Plc (Santander). In late March 2020, 
Mr J made a £50 payment, which was then followed by a £50 balance transfer on 19 April to 
cover his required monthly repayment. On the 19 April, the £50 was refunded to Mr Js 
account but he didnt see it had been returned and Santander didnt notify him. However, as 
Mr J had made two payments for £50, hed still met the minimum payment needed. 
On the 20 April, Santander sent Mr J his next online statement which said the new minimum 
payment of around £46 needed to be made by 16 May 2020. When the payment wasnt 
received by this date, Santander recorded this on Mr Js credit file. A few months later, Mr J 
then tried to apply for a mortgage and as part of the application process he was made aware 
of the missed payment marker on his credit file. 
So Mr J complained to Santander. He asked them to remove the missed payment marker as 
hed never missed a payment before, and he wasnt aware the balance transfer payment 
had been returned. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. They said the refunded payment had been returned 
before the April/May statement had been issued so it would have been allocated to the 
previous month  even if it hadnt been refunded. They also said Mr J had been sent an 
online statement showing him how much he would need to pay for that month and as a 
payment wasnt made in that month statement period, they were obligated to report accurate 
information about the missed payment. 
As part of their response, Santander also suggested Mr J could add a notice of correction to 
his credit file and explain what had happened for lenders to review this and hopefully take 
this into account. Mr J was unhappy with Santanders response, so he asked this service to 
look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She said shed looked at 
Mr Js credit card statement and saw the £50 payment he said was for the April/May 
payment had already been refunded - before the credit card statement had been issued for 
that month. 
She also said although Mr J felt Santander should have told him about the outstanding 
payment, he received online monthly statements so he would have been able to see this. 
She said although she recognised Mr J hadnt missed any payments previously, Santander 
had a responsibility to report credit information accurately so she couldnt say theyd treated 
Mr J unfairly.
Mr J didnt agree. He said hed applied for the balance transfer in the monthly payment cycle 
so Santander could see a payment was being made. He also felt they could have contacted 
him about the refunded payment or kept this payment for the following months minimum 
payment. He also felt they should be responsible for correcting his credit file. 
So he asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint and the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I acknowledge Mr J feels Santander have acted unfairly by reporting the missed payment on 
his credit file, particularly as hes never missed a payment previously. But as part of their 
requirements as a responsible lender, they have a duty to report account activity accurately 
to the credit reference agencies. 
Looking at the credit agreement, Ive seen it says under the Repayments section that each 
month you must pay at least the minimum monthly payment set out in your statement before 
the payment date showing there it also says under the Missing Payments section that 
Missing payments could have severe consequences and [] may result in credit reference 
agencies being notified which could make obtaining credit more difficult. I think both of 
these sections were clearly highlighted and in plain language, so Im satisfied that Santander 
made it clear what would happen if Mr J missed his repayments.
So I now need to look at whether Santander treated Mr J fairly with how they dealt with his 
payment. Mr J told us he was unhappy that one of the payments he made to his March/April 
statement was returned to him and wasnt applied to his April/May statement instead. Ive 
looked at Mr Js statements and based on what Ive seen, I dont think Santander have acted 
unreasonably here. 
I say this because, Ive seen Mr Js March/April statement and Ive seen that both payments 
were credited to this monthly repayment period. This means regardless of the second 
payment being returned, it wouldnt have been credited to the April/May statement as it had 
already been applied before that statement had been created. I recognise Mr J feels 
Santander should have just credited the second payment to the following months repayment, 
but its not possible for them to do this. 
Its usual practice for a lender to only be able to credit a repayment to a customers account 
on the day its received. This is because customers can choose to make their minimum 
repayment using a series of smaller payments before the repayment date - and its not for 
the bank to decide how a customer chooses to manage their accounts as long as they meet 
their contractual obligations.
I also acknowledge that Mr J feels Santander should have told him the payment had been 
credited to the March/April statement before being returned. However, Ive seen evidence 
from Santander they sent Mr J his online statements, so Im satisfied he would have had the 
information available to him showing when the payments had been credited and that his 
payment for April/May was still due. 
I recognise Mr J also mentioned hed done a balance transfer in May which should have 
been treated as a minimum repayment. However, Ive looked at Mr Js statement for 
May/June and Ive seen that this credited his account after the cut off date for the April/May 
statement.  So I cant reasonably say Santander have done anything wrong here.   I recognise that Mr J feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
I also acknowledge why he feels Santanders actions were harsh given his previous 
repayment history. But based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Santander have acted 
unreasonably. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman