DRN-3171656
The complaint
Mr Gs complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined 
cover under his buildings insurance policy when glass in a door exploded.
What happened
Mr G and others were in his house when they heard a loud noise they likened to a rifle shot. 
Mr G couldnt immediately find the source of the noise.  But the following day, he found one 
of the glass panes in his patio door had shattered.  So he contacted RSA to make a claim 
under his buildings insurance policy.
RSA said theyd need information on what had caused the damage before they could decide 
if it was covered.   A few days later, Mr G sent RSA information confirming the damage was 
caused by a chemical reaction which occurs over time within the toughened glass.  RSA said 
theyd consider a claim under their accidental damage cover, which covers unexplained and 
unexpected events.  But Mr G didnt have accidental damage cover.  So RSA declined the 
claim.
Mr G challenged RSAs decision.  He said that the pane had exploded.  And his policy 
provided cover for damage caused by an explosion.  RSA reviewed their position but 
reached the same conclusion.  Nor did they change their position in their response to a 
formal complaint made by Mr G.
Mr G brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator considered it and concluded 
RSA didnt need to do anything more to resolve the matter.  They noted explosion isnt 
defined in Mr Gs policy.  So they considered the dictionary definitions, as well as the 
definition given by the court in the insurance case Commonwealth Smelting v GRE.
They noted a common feature of all the definitions was that something was propelled or 
forced apart by pressure.  While the investigator acknowledged there was a loud noise, they 
said thered been no propulsion of anything and the pane  although shattered  had 
remained in place.  So they concluded it had been reasonable for RSA to decide no 
explosion had occurred.   
And the investigator noted that this type of glass was liable to break spontaneously as a 
result of the chemicals which remain after its treated.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.  Ill explain why.
The issue for the parties here is what caused the pane in Mr Gs patio door to shatter.  But 
thats not something I can determine.  My role is to decide whether RSA have dealt with the 
claim in line with the policy terms.  Not to do so would be unfair.  If I think RSA have acted 
unfairly, I can ask them to do something more to resolve Mr Gs complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Gs policy.  It provides cover for damage caused by (among other things) 
explosion.  As our investigator noted, theres no definition of explosion in the policy.
I can understand why Mr G described what happened as an explosion.  But I cant say RSA 
should simply accept that description and pay the claim under that heading.  An insurer will 
investigate the circumstances of any claim before deciding whether it falls within the policy 
terms.  So Ive looked at the investigations RSA did  and whether it was reasonable to draw 
the conclusions they did from what they found.
I can see that RSA based their initial assessment that no explosion had occurred on 
information provided by Mr G.  And later correspondence explained that their research had 
shown this type of event can be caused by tiny deposits of nickel sulphide remaining in the 
glass after its manufacture.  The deposits cant be completely removed and can cause the 
glass to break spontaneously.
And RSA looked at dictionary definitions of explosion, as well as a leading court judgment 
on the subject.  They said those definitions referred to an event being caused by a very rapid 
reaction, or a bursting out of gas or vapour  which didnt happen in Mr Gs case.
Ive looked at the definitions gathered by RSA and by our investigator.  While there is some 
variation, all of them refer to a violent event, with a burst of energy which scatters fragments.
This didnt happen in Mr Gs case.  While he heard a loud noise, there was no scattering of 
debris.  And he didnt discover the broken pane until the following day.  So I think it was 
reasonable for RSA to conclude there hadnt been an explosion  and to decline cover on 
that basis.
I can see Mr G sent our investigator an article about the type of glass in the patio door.  Ive 
read the article.  It explains what may cause the glass to break  including the inherent 
weaknesses resulting from the manufacturing process.  It refers to the glass shattering and 
fracturing  but not exploding.  So it doesnt change my view that RSAs decision that there 
wasnt an explosion was reasonable.  And that means I dont think they need to do any more 
to resolve Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman