DRN-2184836
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about an administration charge Insurance Factory Ltd (IF) has charged 
on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M took out a car insurance policy through IF  a broker. As part of the application, Mr M 
said he had a 16 year No Claims Bonus (NCB) and he parked his car on a driveway. After 
the policy started IF asked Mr M to provide a copy of his proof of his NCB and a photograph 
of his car parked on a driveway.
Mr M provided a copy of his policy documents from his previous insurer and photos of his 
car parked. But IF said the proof of NCB he provided only gave an NCB of nine years. It also 
said the photos he provided suggested he parked the car in a shared parking space. And it 
charged Mr M a £30 administration fee to process the change on his policy.
Mr M didnt think the charge was fair. He said while there is shared parking at the front of the 
estate, he had his own parking space. He also thought it was unfair that IF said he only had 
16 years NCB. He said he hadnt had an accident in 20 years of driving and asked IF to 
check the claims database.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said IF did have to make some amendments 
to his policy  in particular in respect to the NCB. He said the terms of the policy entitled IF 
to charge up to £35 to make any administrative changes. And he didnt think this was unfair.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said this same parking description has been 
used in all of his insurance policies for over 25 years and was never questioned before. He 
said the insurer didnt have any issues with where the car was being parked, so he didnt 
think the change needed to be made.
Mr M also said hed not made a claim in over 30 years of driving. He said most insurance
companies only give the option of ticking a box of 9+ years for the maximum NCB.  So he 
said in effect this means hes lost around 20 years NCB because of this. 
As Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint.
Mr M is unhappy IF has charged an administration charge to make some changes to his 
insurance policy. The terms of his policy entitled IF to charge an administration fee to make 
any changes to the insurance policy. This is standard industry practice and I dont think its 
unfair either. But the issue for me to decide is whether this was fair or not.
I note Mr M says he had access to his own parking space which he considered to be a 
driveway. But the first photos he provided were for a shared parking area. So I dont think it 
was unreasonable for IF  on behalf of the insurer to consider this to be the primary place 
where Mr M parked his car. But, even if this wasnt the case, Mr M declared a NCB of 16 
years, but the proof of NCB he provided was only for 9 years. 
I note Mr Ms comments that this means hes in effect lost around 20 years NCB. But this 
isnt something I can hold IF responsible for. If hes unhappy with the amount of NCB his 
previous insurer gave, hell need to raise that directly with them.
Ultimately IF did need to update his records to reflect this. So I dont think it was unfair that it 
charged a small administration fee to reflect the work that was required.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman