DRN-4206805
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, dealt with her 
chargeback dispute.
What happened
Mrs M has a Virgin Money credit card. In July 2022 she used that card to pay £55.79 for 
some goods which were never delivered. In August she raised a chargeback dispute. She 
complains not about the outcome of that dispute, but rather about various customer service 
issues concerning it. These are:
Virgin Money sent her a misleading letter saying that the amount of £55.79 had been 
placed in dispute, meaning that she would not have to make any payment for it, but 
that this had turned out not to be the case, and she had had to repay it;
When she had phoned Virgin Money to raise her claim, she had been told she had to 
write a letter, and had not been told that she could fill in a form online instead, nor 
had she been told how to update her phone number on her account;
She had had to spend too long waiting on the phone, and too long on a phone call 
once it was answered;
When she had first tried to phone, the phone line had been closed early; and
Virgin Money had taken too long to resolve her complaint.
Virgin Money upheld Mrs Ms complaints about some of these matters, and paid her £150. 
But it did not agree with her about the first two matters. It maintained that she had not been 
required to repay the disputed amount, and that any interest charged on it would be 
refunded. And it said its complaint handler had told Mrs M that she could reply to her email 
and she would forward it to the disputes team for her, which she did.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mrs M brought this complaint to our service. She 
asked for another £150 in respect of the issues Virgin Money had not upheld.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He looked at Mrs Ms credit card statement 
and saw that it said that no payment was due. He thought that Virgin Money had not made 
any errors when raising her chargeback dispute or when telling her how to raise it. He 
thought that £150 was fair compensation for the admitted errors.
Mrs M did not accept that opinion. She insisted that she had been obliged to pay Virgin 
Money £55.79. And she maintained that she should have been told that she could fill in a 
form online. She asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it, for broadly the same reasons as my colleague.
When Mrs M raised her chargeback claim, Virgin Money sent her a letter which included the 
following paragraph:
We have placed this transaction 'in dispute', which means you will not have 
to make any payment for it, and you will not be charged any interest on it 
while it is being investigated. Please note, although this transaction is in 
dispute, it will still be part of your account balance reducing the amount you 
have available to spend.
I have seen nothing on Mrs Ms credit card statement which contradicts this. It says there are 
no interest or charges to pay, and then it goes on to say that the requested payment is zero:
The disputed payment was of course included in the total account balance, which is what the 
letter said would happen. This was a credit card, not a charge card, so Mrs M was under no 
obligation to repay the entire account balance if she didnt want to. I do not uphold her 
complaint about that.
Turning to the matter of how a chargeback claim may be raised, I do not think that writing an 
email or a letter is significantly more onerous or appreciably more inconvenient than filling in 
an online form. It would have been better if Mrs M had been told that the online form was an 
available alternative, but the omission to tell her that does not seem to me to be worth 
awarding compensation for. So I do not uphold that part of her complaint either.
Finally, I think that £150 is fair compensation for the issues for which it was paid.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
