DRN-1439515
The complaint
Mr O complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions has 
applied unfair charges at the end of his agreement. He wants the disputed charges to be 
waived. Hes also unhappy that damage charges were taken out of his account directly and 
without his consent.
What happened
In January 2017 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with Hitachi. 
The car was returned and inspected in March 2019. Hitachi later invoiced Mr O for damage 
charges and debited the charges from his account.
Mr O disputed the charges. Whilst the invoice was in dispute, Hitachi took the charges from 
his account.
The original damage charges were £703.02. Whilst investigating Mr Os complaint, Hitachi 
agree to waive the charges for wheel spoke damage and decal, leaving outstanding charges 
of £643.02. It also apologised for debiting his account and refunded this, together with £50 
compensation. Mr O remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint and said he didnt think Mr O should be 
responsible for the marks to the left front wing and the front bumper, or for the paintwork on 
the bonnet. He thought Hitachi should remove charges of £355, leaving outstanding charges 
of £288.02. 
Hitachi didnt agree. It said the photos of the left front wing, the bumper and the paintwork 
showed poor repairs which BVLRA had confirmed were outside fair wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr O would be concerned to be invoiced for charges he hadnt expected. I 
also understand how distressing it mustve been when the charges were debited from his 
account without his consent.
Mr O acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result this 
service can investigate complaints about it.
Mr Os responsibility was to return the car in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. This includes a clause requiring him to return the car in good condition, fair wear 
and tear excepted.
BVLRA guidelines on fair wear and tear are a recognised industry guide which is used to 
provide a consistent approach to the assessment of damage when a car is returned at the 
end of a hire period.
Briefly summarised, the disputed areas of damage relate to a valet, a mis-aligned front 
bumper, chips to the left-hand quarter panel, uneven wear to the left-hand front tyre, marks 
to the left front wing, marks to the front bumper and paint damage to the bonnet.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in my 
own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues. Our rules 
allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of this service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, its not because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every point in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen photographs of the car which were taken around the time of inspection. Ive looked 
at the inspection report and Ive considered the relevant guidelines. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that the majority of damage falls outside of fair wear and tear guidelines. 
The investigator explained how the guidelines applied to each item of damage and I wont 
repeat that here.
In relation to the marks on the left front wing and the front bumper, and the damaged 
paintwork on the bonnet, Ive carefully considered the photos. Ive also taken account of the 
comments made by BVLRA. I appreciate that Hitachi has identified what it believes to be 
chargeable damage and I appreciate that BVLRA has said that these appear to be poor 
repairs. However, on balance Im not persuaded that the photos show sufficient issues with 
the paintwork, in terms of the preparation marks or dirt. So, I dont think its fair for Hitachi to 
charge for this.
Putting things right
In summary, I find most of the damage save for that which Ive identified above to be outside 
of the BVLRA guidelines.
The charges for the marks to the left front wing, front bumper and front bonnet should be 
waived. I think the remainder of the charges have been fairly applied. This leaves damage 
charges of £288.02.
Mr O has complained that the charges were debited from his account. Hes said that this 
caused him financial difficulties. Hitachi has acknowledged that it made an error. In 
circumstances like this, I would usually ask a business to pay compensation for trouble and 
upset. Hitachi has already made a payment to Mr O which I think is fair and reasonable. 
Mr O is also unhappy about the collection process. Hitachi has fed back his concerns to the 
collection agents. Im unable to ask Hitachi to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc must waive 
the charges for the left front wing (£140), the front bumper (£75) and the bonnet (£140).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman