DRN-3424452
The complaint
Mr K complains about Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) who he feels unfairly charged him 
excesses, following claims under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2017 it was agreed by all residents in the block, that any property causing damage 
via an escape of water, would be liable for the full excess charge of £2,500. 
Prior to the inception of this new excess charge (which was due to come into force on 1 May 
2020), two separate leaks were found to have originated in Mr Ks property, which caused 
damage to the properties below. The loss adjuster from Zurich, confirmed that there were 
two leaks (albeit on one claim) and as such Mr K was charged for two excesses of £500 
each (a total of £1,000) the cost of the excess charge at that time.
Mr K disputed that he should pay the excess charges as he said that the work hadnt been 
fully completed. And that the work that had been completed, hadnt been carried out to a 
good standard. The works were carried out by a contractor instructed by Zurich to repair a 
leak from the toilet cistern, as well as a leak from a hot water pipe. So two areas within Mr 
Ks property. 
Zurich said that at the time, it had received the invoices for the work carried out by the 
contractor and those invoices were paid. The invoices indicated that the work had been 
completed. And Mr K didnt contact Zurich to complain about the level of work. Mr K 
accepted that he was liable for the first excess charge, but not the second.  
In December 2019, another leak was found to have originated from Mr Ks property and this 
leak caused damage to the adjoining properties. By this time, the excess had increased to 
£2,500. Zurich said that Mr K had been made aware of the increased excess following the 
residents agreement and at each subsequent renewal. And in accordance with the 
agreement made in 2017, the property that caused the damage, would be liable for the total 
excess charge. 
Mr K complained to Zurich as he felt that the charges were unfair. In its final response, 
Zurich maintained that there was proof that the leak came from Mr Ks property and caused 
damage to other properties. So, he would be liable for the full excess charge of £2,500, as 
per the agreement. 
As to the other leaks and the excess charges attributable to those, Zurich said that there was 
no evidence to suggest that the work wasnt completed and completed to a good standard, 
as Mr K didnt complain about the level of service at the time. Moreover, invoices were 
submitted and paid for, which Zurich said indicated that the work had been completed. 
Zurich said that it was unable to contact the contractor to obtain further information, as the 
contractor had since died. But it did offer Mr K a goodwill gesture of £250, as it was unable 
to provide any further evidence from the contractor.
Mr K was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
there was no evidence to suggest that the work was either carried out to a poor standard or 
wasnt completed. And he couldnt see any evidence that suggested that Zurich had made 
any errors in assessing the claim or charging the excesses correctly. He explained that the 
good will gesture of £250 was fair as Zurich couldnt obtain clarification from the contractor 
about the standard of work. So, he wouldnt ask Zurich to do anything further to resolve the 
complaint. 
Zurich accepted the view, Mr K did not. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman, as he 
maintained that the excess charges were unfair, as the work hadnt been completed or 
completed to a good standard. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr K, 
but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
In complaints like this, we look at whether Zurich made errors in carrying out the works and 
in charging the excesses. And if errors were made, whether it acted fairly and reasonably in 
its response and in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr K said that in 2017 he was charged two excesses for two leaks. He confirmed that he 
accepted the first excess charge of £500. But as to the other excess charge (of the same 
amount) he didnt agree that he should pay this, as he believed that the second leak excess 
charge - ought to have been covered by the contractors insurance, as that leak was caused 
by the poor work that the contractor carried out. 
I have considered Mr Ks testimony regarding this and reviewed Zurichs loss adjusters 
report. Mr K accepts that there were leaks in the property and the loss adjusters report 
confirms that there were two separate leaks from Mr Ks property. One was found coming 
from a hot water pipe and the other from a toilet cistern.   
Mr K said that the second leak (the hot water pipe) was caused by contractors who were 
instructed by Zurich to carry out the repairs on the first leak (the toilet cistern). Apart from Mr 
Ks account, he has not provided me with any other expert evidence that supports this 
position. 
Zurich in the form of its expert  the loss adjuster  has provided me with a report and in that 
report, it confirms that the second leak was discovered prior to any work having taken place 
inside Mr Ks property.  As Mr K hasnt provided any expert evidence to the contrary, Im 
persuaded that both leaks were found before the commencement of any work carried out in 
Mr Ks property.  And as such, Im satisfied that Zurich fairly charged both excesses to Mr K. 
And both are payable, for the two separate leaks. 
Mr K also complained the that standard of work by the contractors instructed by Zurich, was 
poor, not least as it wasnt completed. Having reviewed the evidence, I cant see where Mr K 
expands on the actual poor level of work that he complains about. But I note the following 
points. First, Zurich said that it paid the invoice that was raised following the completion of 
the work. And second, at no point did Mr K complain to them, at that time, that the work that 
was carried out wasnt to an acceptable standard. I have reviewed the invoice and it confirms that work was carried out and completed. Mr K 
hasnt provided me with any other evidence, such as an expert report, that supports his view 
that the level of work was poor. I understand the reason by Zurich were unable to contact the 
contractor and I note that it offered Mr K a goodwill gesture of £250. It explained that this 
was because it couldnt get any further confirmation about the work, from the contractor. 
Taking this into account, Im satisfied that this was a fair and reasonable resolution.
Mr K also complained about the excess of £2,500, that was charged solely to him for the 
subsequent leak in 2019. Mr K felt that this was unfair as no work had been carried out in his 
property and he wasnt aware about any further leaks. 
Ive been provided with a copy of the renewal document that Zurich said was sent to Mr K. 
Mr K hasnt said that he wasnt provided with the renewal notice. The notice gave details 
about the new excess structure that had been agreed by all residents within the 
development. It showed that where there was any escape of water claim, the owner of the 
property from which the water escaped, would be liable for the full excess charge of £2,500. 
Mr K hasnt said that he wasnt aware about the excess charge (so Im satisfied that he was) 
but he didnt believe that he ought to pay for it, as there were no leaks coming from his 
property that he could see. And no works had been completed on his property under this
claim. 
I have been provided with a loss adjusters report which gives details of the source of the 
leaks coming from Mr Ks property. Mr K was also given a copy of this report. Mr K said that 
he wasnt aware of any leaks originating from his property, as he had checked for them. But 
Mr K hasnt provided me with any other independent evidence that could confirm this. And 
the expert that Zurich has relied upon has provided details of where the leaks originated 
from. 
I note that damage was caused to the adjoining properties, even if Mr K said that there was 
no damage in his property. Having reviewed the evidence, as there is evidence to support 
that the leaks came from Mr Ks property, then Im satisfied that the excess charge of £2,500 
was correctly charged to Mr K, as per the terms of the policy. 
Finally, Mr K told Zurich that no work would need to be completed in his property, as on a 
few occasions, he mentioned that he would complete any work himself. So, I dont think 
Zurich were unreasonable in not carrying out any works in Mr Ks property.
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that Zurich correctly charged the excess 
charges to all the leaks that occurred. Also, I think it was fair and reasonable in its offer of 
the £250 goodwill gesture, for the lack of confirmation from the contractor.
Although I understand that this is not the outcome Mr K wouldve liked, I wont be asking 
Zurich to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Zurich Insurance PLC has already made an offer to pay £250 as a gesture of goodwill and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Zurich Insurance PLC should pay £250 (If it hasnt already done so).Zurich Insurance PLC must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr 
K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman