DRN-3872581
The complaint
Mr L complains about the price quoted by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) to 
renew his buildings and contents insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L received a quote to renew his policy which he says was 90% higher than the previous 
year, so he complained. RSA responded and apologised Mr Ls renewal premium was 
higher than he was expecting. RSA said, each year at renewal time, they take a view of the 
risk theyre providing insurance against based on the latest information available to them at 
the time. They explained they take a number of factors into account such as changes in 
external risk information covering risk indicators for different claim types. They said Mr L had 
made a claim so this had an impact on the premium. They explained theyd also reviewed 
their pricing strategy in response to the new Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) pricing 
rules which were brought into place to provide a fairer and more consistent approach to the 
prices offered to new customers and those renewing their policy.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L. He thought RSA hadnt treated Mr L unfairly in 
relation to the pricing. Mr L disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr L will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
Ive looked at the renewal quote sent to Mr L for the policy year 2022-2023 and this is just 
over £400 more than what he paid the previous year. Insurers constantly update how they 
rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually change. 
RSA have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how Mr Ls 
price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its commercially 
sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the price he was quoted has been 
calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other RSA customers in Mr Ls 
position will have been charged a lower premium. 
I acknowledge Mr L wants a more detailed breakdown showing the increase in premium. As 
mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about RSAs risk model, but I can see part of 
the reason for the change in price was down to the way RSA assessed the claim made by 
Mr L in 2020. While it was taken into account in the 2021 renewal, the way it was assessed 
in 2022 meant it was more targeted to the actual cause for the claim. So, I cant say RSA 
have made a mistake here when calculating the renewal. And, in taking the claim factor into 
account in the way they have, I cant say RSA have treated Mr L unfairly.     
RSA also explain another reason for the price increase was brought about by new rules for 
general insurance pricing introduced by the FCA in January 2022. They apply to motor and 
buildings insurance only and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules when 
offering renewals. The rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 
1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. 
The new pricing rules were in place when Mr L was offered his renewal by RSA, so they did 
need to follow these at the time. And, given theyve done this  and the information provided 
shows Mr L hasnt been charged more than the ENBP - I cant say theyve acted unfairly if 
this has resulted in a change in price. I think its also important to make the point that the 
price RSA have given Mr L is lower than the ENBP by some way. So, this shows RSA have 
tried to keep the premium lower when recognising the impact of the re-rate of the previous 
claim.    
In addition to this, I can see RSA did remind Mr L that he could shop around to see if he 
could get a better price. As there have been at least four renewals, then section 6.5 of the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business to provide 
specific wording about the benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating Mr L fairly, I 
think theyve also acted in line with requirements set out under ICOBS. 
I note Mr L says the claim in 2020 relates to an ingress of water into his garage caused by a 
nearby water main bursting  so he feels this claim has been unfairly classified. Mr L says 
the habitable part of his house is two metres above road level so theres no danger from 
water ingress to the majority of his property. So, he feels its unfair he should be expected to 
pay a higher premium for insuring the contents of his garage against water ingress. I do 
acknowledge Mr Ls points and why he feels this is unfair. But, its for a business to decide 
what risks theyre prepared to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks. While we 
dont have the power to direct a business on what their risk model should look like, we can 
look to see whether theyve acted fairly. And, in this case, I think RSA increased Mr Ls 
premium at renewal correctly in keeping with the changes made to their risk ratings and 
underwriting guidelines. 
I wish to reassure Mr L Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman