DRN-3976899
The complaint
Mr H says HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed his accounts.
What happened
Mr H held a current account and a savings account with HSBC. On 26 July 2022 HSBC 
wrote to him to say it had decided to close his accounts. HSBC gave Mr H 30 days notice, 
saying the accounts would be closed on 25 August 2022.
Mr H was unhappy with HSBCs decision, so he raised a complaint. HSBC looked into 
Mr Hs complaint, but did not agree it had done anything wrong. It says that Mr H behaved 
improperly in his interactions with staff, and so as per the terms and conditions of his 
accounts HSBC says it was entitled to close those accounts.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that HSBC had not treated Mr H 
unfairly.
Mr H was unhappy with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to review afresh and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
I do recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr H to discover his accounts would be 
closed. But Ive reviewed the account terms and conditions and they set out how HSBC 
might end the agreement. In particular, the terms say:
Sometimes we can end the agreement and close your accounts straight away and not give 
you any notice. Well only do this if certain things happen. Weve set these out below.

 Youve behaved inappropriately either to us or when using our services. For example, you 
acted abusively, offensively or violently towards employees
It seems HSBC took the decision to close Mr Hs account following a branch visit in late July 
2021. I cant say for sure what happened at the branch, but HSBCs branch notes state that 
Mr H had visited the branch on multiple occasions and been aggressive and abusive, both to 
staff members and when speaking on his phone in branch.
Mr H says that he was angry and did raise his voice, but does not believe he has done 
anything wrong. He says there was nothing to say he could not use his phone in branch. 
I can appreciate that Mr H may not have intended to cause upset to the branch staff.  But I 
think theres more to this than just what Mr H did or didnt intend. The branch staff have said 
that Mr Hs behaviour caused offence to both staff and other customers, and that he made 
them feel uncomfortable. I see little reason for them to say that unless that was their 
perception.
Ive also listened to call recordings between Mr H and HSBC  albeit mostly from after the 
branch visit in question. Having listened to the calls, some of which involve Mr H swearing, 
shouting and speaking over staff members, I can see how his behaviour on occasion could 
have been considered as aggressive.
Taking everything into account, I think it was fair for HSBC to close Mr Hs account in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. I also note that the terms and conditions allow 
HSBC to take this step immediately and without notice. But I can nonetheless see that 
HSBC did still give Mr H a 30 day notice period to give him time to make alternative banking 
arrangements. So, I think HSBC have acted reasonably here. That being the case, while I 
recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling, I dont think HSBC needs to pay Mr H any 
compensation.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman