DRN-4235728
The complaint
Mr J and Mr J complain that a car acquired with finance from Go Car Credit Limited (GCC) 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr J and Mr J were supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with GCC.
Mr J experienced some issues with the car. T
Mr J reported the issues to the supplying dealer and requested to return the car. The 
supplying dealer asked Mr J to obtain a report evidencing the faults.
Mr J raised a complaint with GCC in January 2023. GCC said it would contribute towards the 
cost of an independent inspection. The dealership arranged for the car to be inspected in 
April 2023. The inspection found that the tracking issue had been caused by an impact. The 
dealership said it wasnt responsible for this but agreed to fix the rear lights.
GCC said the inspection report stated that the tracking issue had been caused by an impact 
which had occurred since the car was supplied and that it wasnt responsible for this. In 
relation to the rear lights, GCC upheld this part of the complaint. It also agreed to reduce the 
arrears on the account by the equivalent of one monthly payment in recognition of the time it 
had taken to arrange the inspection. 
Mr J remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that although Mr J and Mr J had 
requested to reject the car within the first 30 days, there wasnt any evidence that a fault 
existed at this time. The investigator said that although the report identified an issue with the 
rear lights, which the dealership had agreed to repair, the report stated that the damage to 
the track rod ends had been caused by an impact which occurred after the point of supply 
and therefore this wasnt something that either the dealership or GCC was responsible for.
Mr J didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable taking into account factors such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr J was around 5 years old and had covered around 66,411 miles. So 
its reasonable to assume that the car would already have a degree of wear and tear and that 
it would require repairs and maintenance sooner than a brand new car.
Mr J first raised his complaint with GCC in January 2023. Under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015, where a fault occurs with a car in the first 6 months after the point of supply, its 
assumed that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and  unless the 
business can show otherwise  its generally up to the business to put things right. The 
business is allowed one opportunity to repair a fault. If the repair isnt successful, the 
consumer can reject the car.
Ive reviewed the available evidence about the issues which Mr J experienced with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car. I say this because the 
independent inspection report states that the rear lights arent working properly because of 
corrosion to the terminals. The report also states that the tracking isnt aligned and that the 
car doesnt drive straight.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
The independent report identifies a fault with the rear lights and an issue with the tracking. 
The report concluded that the rear light fault was something that the business was 
responsible for, but that the issue with the tracking had been caused by impact damage and 
wouldnt have been present at the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the independent report, Im persuaded that there was a fault with 
the rear lights at the point of supply. I understand that repairs have already been carried out 
to resolve this issue, which is what I would expect the business to do in order to comply with 
its obligations under the relevant legislation.
Im not persuaded that there was an issue with the tracking at the point of supply. I say this 
because the independent report states that the issue has been caused by impact damage 
after the point of supply, and that this has resulted in bent track rod ends. If the track rod 
ends had been bent at the point of supply. I wouldve expected this to have been identified at 
the MOT which took place shortly before the point of supply. This is because bent track rod 
ends would have resulted in a MOT failure. So it seems more likely that the tracking issue 
has arisen after the point of supply as a result of impact as indicated by the inspection 
report.
Taking all the available information into account, including the fact that the repairs to the rear 
lights have been completed and theres no evidence to suggest that these repairs have been 
unsuccessful, I wont be asking GCC to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman