DRN-1744120
The complaint
Ms Bs complained that Barclays Bank plc (Barclays) didnt register a default on her loan 
account as soon as they should have.  So the defaults still showing on her credit file when it 
should have been removed.
What happened
In 2012, Ms B took out a loan with Barclays.  There was a payment free period at the start of 
the loan, so the first payment wasnt due until November 2013.
Ms B didnt make that payment.  But the loan was reset, so the first payment didnt become 
due until December 2013.  Ms B made a payment then.  But she didnt make payments after 
that, so she fell into arrears.
Barclays entered a default on the loan on Ms Bs credit file in July 2014.
In September 2019, Ms B contacted Barclays to complain.  She said that they should have 
recorded a default on her account in February 2014, three months after she first missed a 
payment.  But, as they didnt record a default until July 2014, it would stay on her credit file 
for longer than it should.  She quoted guidance from the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) to support her complaint.
Barclays replied to Ms B.  They explained that a single missed payment doesnt lead to a 
default.  They said they couldnt record a default if two or less payments have been missed.  
And that theyd recorded the default on the date their notice to her had expired.  So they said 
theyd followed the ICOs guidelines.
Ms B wasnt happy with Barclays reply so she complained to us.  She said she wanted the 
default date amended to February 2014.
Our investigator considered the complaint but decided that Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong.  She said that Barclays should wait three months from the third missed payment 
before applying a default.  The third payment was missed in March 2014.  So it wasnt 
unreasonable of Barclays not to apply the default earlier.
Ms B wasnt happy with the investigators view.  She quoted guidance from the ICO which 
says:
As a general guide, [a default may be recorded] when you are 3 months in arrears, and 
normally by the time you are 6 months in arrears.
She said this meant the default should have been recorded in February 2014.
Because Ms B didnt agree with our investigators view, Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its agreed that Ms B didnt make the loan payment due in November 2013.  Whats in 
dispute is whether Barclays should have started the default process because of that.  
Defaults stay on someones credit file for six years. So the earlier a defaults recorded, the 
sooner itll be removed.  But they do affect someones ability to get credit. So businesses 
need to be sure they dont affect that ability unfairly, by recording a default too early.
Businesses keep a record of whats paid every month.  And they dont start the process for 
recording a default on someones file until payments have been missed for several months in 
a row, so they can see theres a pattern.  When this happens, businesses send the borrower 
a default notice, warning the borrower that theyll record a default if they dont bring their 
account up to date.
Ms B isnt disputing this happened.  But shes saying it shouldve happened in February 
2014 - three months after she missed her first payment.  That would mean the default 
wouldve been removed from her credit file in February 2020.
I understand Ms Bs concern.  But Barclays had to act fairly at the time she wasnt making 
payments.  And they had to make sure her credit file provided accurate information to people 
searching it.  She missed a payment in November 2013.  But she made payments after that.  
So to say there was a pattern of missed payments in November 2013 wouldnt have been 
accurate.  It was accurate in March 2014.  So Im satisfied that Barclays did start their default 
process when they should have done.
Ms Bs said the ICOs guidance says a default should have been recorded in February 2014, 
because she was then three months in arrears.  But I dont think thats the way the guidance 
should be read.  I think its clear from reading the rest of the section quoted by Ms B that the 
number of payments missed are whats counted, not how many months one payments been 
outstanding.  
Thats what Barclays did.  So I cant say that theyve not followed the ICOs guidance. And 
because I dont think they did anything wrong, I cant decide they should do anything to 
change the position.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint about Barclays Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman