DRN-2003011
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didn't update his address when he asked it to. 
As a result, he says, he's lost out on the opportunity to invest in a Help to Buy ISA, 
potentially worth thousands of pounds to him. 
What happened
Mr E has explained that he was staying in Australia and planning to return to his home in the 
UK. He wanted to apply for a Help to Buy ISA, but could only do so if his registered address 
with the bank was in the UK. The deadline for applications was 30 November 2019, after 
which the product was to be recalled.
Mr E attempted online to change his address, but was unsuccessful; parts of the address 
could be changed, but not the country. So he still couldn't apply for the ISA. Mr E called 
Barclays and was told the address would be fully updated within 24 hours. Mr E says it 
wasn't updated until he went to the branch about three weeks later. By that time, he'd lost 
out on the chance to open the ISA.
Mr E referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He 
noted that the bank had offered Mr E £100 in recognition of the inconvenience caused by the 
initial difficulty with updating his address. But he also noted that it had been updated in the 
bank's records on the afternoon of 29 November - in time for Mr E to apply for the ISA before 
the online deadline of 10pm the following day. 
Mr E didn't agree with the investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have however reached the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Barclays has acknowledged that Mr E was put to unnecessary trouble when trying to change 
his address and has compensated him for that. He says however that it then didn't put things 
right until it was too late for him to apply for the ISA. 
I've considered carefully the bank's records here. They show: an address in Australia dating 
from April 2018; on 29 November 2019, a UK address with the country incorrectly showing 
as Australia and, from 30 November 2019, Mr E's correct UK address. In my view, that's 
consistent with Mr E having had difficulties changing the address online and with things 
being resolved before the ISA deadline. Those records also show the correct address having 
been removed when Mr E visited the branch a few weeks later, but the same address being 
recorded. I'm satisfied therefore that Mr E's address was updated in time for him to apply for the ISA 
and that Barclays' payment of compensation was, therefore, fair in the circumstances.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything more to resolve 
Mr E's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman