DRN-3691928
The complaint
Ms B complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly asked her to make a payment 
some 18 months after she redeemed her mortgage. She asks for an apology, that the debt is 
waived, written confirmation theres no impact on her credit file and £1,000 for the stress.
What happened
Ms B sold her house and repaid her mortgage in August 2020. She was contacted in 
January 2022 and asked to make a payment of about £450. 
Nationwide said it had started the process of collecting a direct debit payment when it issued 
the redemption statement. It said it assumed the payment would be collected when it 
calculated the redemption amount. However, the payment was cancelled. Nationwide wrote 
to Ms Bs solicitor in August and September 2021 to ask for the payment. It says it didnt try 
to collect the debt from Ms B until late 2021 because of the Covid-19 pandemic  it said it 
had put a hold on collection activity to avoid causing distress to customers.
Ms B says it was wrong for Nationwide not to inform her sooner, and shes worried the 
unpaid debt will affect her credit file. 
Our investigator said it was fair for Nationwide to ask for the payment. The investigator said 
in the circumstances Nationwide made reasonable efforts to contact the solicitor and Ms B 
about the shortfall.
Ms B didnt agree. In summary, she said Nationwide hadnt told her or her solicitor about the 
shortfall for over a year and this wasnt reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide sent a redemption statement (dated 27 August 2020) to Ms Bs solicitor. This set 
out the amount Ms B needed to pay to redeem the mortgage. Nationwide says this took into 
account a direct debit payment due at about that time. 
A statement on the front page of the remittance advice sent with the redemption statement 
said Upcoming payments  please do not cancel any payment arrangements. It said 
Nationwide would cancel the direct debit after settlement of the mortgage account. It said if 
the direct debit isnt collected for any reason there may be a shortfall. 
Ms B says she didnt cancel the direct debit before 29 August 2020. Nationwide says it didnt 
cancel the direct debit and the rejection code suggests it was cancelled by Ms B. Either way, 
the direct debit was rejected, resulting in a shortfall of about £450.
Nationwide wrote to Ms Bs solicitor on 28 August 2020 (when it was told the direct debit had 
been rejected). The letter said the direct debit payment was taken into account in the 
redemption statement. It said the direct debit payment had been rejected, causing a shortfall. 
It wrote to the solicitor again on 10 September 2020.
The letters were sent to the solicitor by post. Ms B says the letters werent addressed to a 
specific person or branch. However, the letters included details such as Ms Bs name and 
the property address and I think Nationwide could reasonably expect the letters to be 
directed to the right person within the solicitors offices. Nationwide didnt receive a response 
to its letters to the solicitor. Ms B says the solicitor didnt receive the letters.
While Ms B says it was unreasonable for Nationwide to write to her at her previous address, 
I dont think thats fair. Re-mortgaging with another lender is not uncommon and not all 
customers move after repaying a mortgage. Ms B hadnt given Nationwide her new address.
A debt collection business appointed by Nationwide wrote to Ms B in November and 
December 2021 and January 2022, at her previous address. It made contact with Ms B by 
text in late January 2022. Ms B was worried this was a scam. Ms B contacted the debt 
collection business after receiving the text. She was unhappy with the initial response from 
the debt collection business (a complaint about this business has been dealt with 
separately). The debt collection business called her again in early February 2022 and this is 
when she was told about the debt. 
Ms B says her main issue is Nationwides decision not to notify her about the debt for over a 
year, and then make contact through a debt collector. She considers this unethical and says 
it caused undue stress. I can understand that. But I must be fair to both parties. Nationwide 
did write to Ms Bs solicitor about the shortfall. And it told Ms B it made a decision to hold 
collection activity during the Covid-19 pandemic. While Ms B would have preferred to be told 
sooner, I cant fairly find that Nationwide made an error. 
Nationwide paid £25 for upset caused when Ms B was given incorrect information by staff at 
the debt collection business.
Why Im not asking Nationwide to take further steps
Ms B says shed have preferred to know about the debt sooner  presumably so that she 
could settle it. She was aware of the debt in early February and how to pay it. Ms B hasnt 
said her financial circumstances meant she would struggle to pay the debt. 
Understandably, Ms B wanted to know what had happened. I think Nationwide responded 
promptly to explain what had happened, and to respond to Ms Bs complaint. It sent its final 
response letter on 11 February 2022, after discussing the matter with Ms B. 
Ms B said shes concerned about the effect on her credit file of a debt that she wasnt aware 
of. Ms B was given information about the debt and how to pay it in February 2022. 
Nationwide provided a screen shot to show that it reported the account as settled. I havent 
seen any evidence of adverse information related to the debt being recorded on Ms Bs 
credit file.
As Ms B wasnt aware of the debt before early February 2022, she couldnt have been 
worried about it before then. And, as I said, Nationwide responded promptly to explain what 
had happened once Ms B was aware of the debt.
Its unfortunate that Ms B didnt know about the debt until early 2022. But I dont think this 
was due to an error by Nationwide. The money is owed by Ms B to Nationwide. I dont think 
its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Nationwide to waive or refund the 
shortfall or pay compensation. I dont think I can fairly require Nationwide to give written 
confirmation that the debt wont affect Ms Bs credit file if it remains unpaid.Ms B decided to bring the complaint to us  as is her right. Its inevitable this would involve 
some time and effort on Ms Bs part, which she needed to take into account when deciding 
to continue with the complaint process. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require Nationwide to pay compensation for Ms Bs effort and time.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman