DRN-3820248
The complaint
Mrs W complains about advice she was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan in 2014. She says the 
advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused her a financial loss.
Portal Financial Services LLP is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to Portal. 
What happened
Mrs W approached Portal to discuss her pension and retirement needs. Portal ultimately 
recommended that she transfer away from her OPS, to a personal pension plan. It said she 
could access a tax-free cash element and invest the remainder in various funds within the 
plan.
The information gathered by Portal about Mrs W at the time was broadly as follows:
Mrs W was 55 years old living with her husband who was 58. They had one child still 
financially dependent on them. 
Mrs W didnt work, and she received state benefits. Mr W was on a nil-hours 
contract. They lived in local authority housing.
Mrs W owed £17,000 on credit cards which was being paid in an arranged plan at £1 
per month due to her financial circumstances. She had used up her maximum 
allowed bank overdraft and their joint monthly income was around £1,300, with no 
meaningful disposable income. They had no financial assets.
Mrs W was a deferred member of an OPS, having joined the scheme in the early 
1990s and accrued 12 years of benefits. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
of the OPS in 2014 was £38,456 with a normal retirement age of 65.
Mrs W complained to Portal in 2021 that she was given unsuitable advice. However, Portal 
says that in its dealings with Mrs W, it first told her that it didnt think she ought to transfer 
away from her DB scheme. It said it told her that the pension outside the scheme would be 
unlikely to grow to an extent that made transferring out worthwhile. 
However, Portal says Mrs W became an insistent client  a term used within the industry 
when a client wants to go against what was recommended to them by their adviser. It says 
that only when Mrs W insisted, did it then go on to make a second recommendation: that she 
transfer to a personal pension plan, take a 25% tax-free lump sum, and invest the rest in 
various money market funds. It says when she agreed to this course of action, it then 
facilitated the transfer from the OPS to a personal pension.
The complaint has been referred to our Service. One of our investigators looked into it and 
said we should uphold it. They thought Portal hadnt treated Mrs W correctly when 
categorising her as an insistent client and that the advice to transfer the OPS was 
unsuitable. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portal's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, TWML should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mrs Ws best interests. 
Having considered all these things, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
Financial viability 
As required by the regulator, to demonstrate the financial comparisons between her OPS 
and transferring out to a personal pension, Portal referred in its transfer analysis to a critical 
yield rate.  
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
income as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show 
how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. Ive noted in this case that Mrs Ws hope was to access the money in her pension more or 
less straight away, rather than wait until her schemes normal retirement age of 65. She 
apparently said that she wanted to pay off debts with the money and use part of it for day-to-
day living expenses. Nevertheless, in my view, the critical yield here gives a good indication 
of the overall financial value of Mrs Ws pension and what she would be giving up by 
transferring out. Portal said, for example, that the critical yield required to match Mrs Ws full 
benefits at the age of 65 was 10.4%. This figure alone suggest a growth rate that is likely to 
be unachievable.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before 1 October 2017 was 4.8% per year for 9 years to retirement (calculated to age 65) 
which I think showed that achieving anywhere near the critical yield growth rate was highly 
unlikely. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 9%, the middle 
projection rate was 7%, and the lower projection rate was 5%. 
At the time, Portal assessed Mrs Ws attitude to risk (ATR) as moderately adventurous which 
our investigator said was too high. I agree with this as Mrs W appears to have had no 
investment experience whatsoever and no capacity for loss. Ive also seen some references 
elsewhere in the documents from the time which suggest Mrs Ws ATR to be low-medium. 
So, I think a potential growth figure around the lower range of these projections, around 5%, 
was most relevant; again this was well below the critical yield rate and most likely 
unachievable. 
So, taking all these projected growth figures and the critical yield into account I think theres 
a clear indication that by transferring out of her DB scheme at the time, Mrs W would be 
likely to obtain pension benefits of a much lower overall value than the scheme she was in, 
over the longer term.
Of course, Portal itself went onto say that it initially recommended that she shouldnt transfer. 
Portal also said Mrs W had other reasons to transfer away, mainly related to her debt. So 
Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was 
suitable for her, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
The circumstances of the advice
Portal says Mrs W ultimately went against its advice. It says that she was first advised that 
she ought to stay in the DB scheme, and it was Mrs W herself that insisted she wanted to 
transfer out. Portal says this meant she became an insistent client and that accordingly, it 
followed a process to transfer Mrs Ws pension to a personal pension as per her wishes. 
At the time when Portal met with Mrs W and was advising her, there was no specific 
regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent clients. However, there were a 
number of important COBS rules in the regulators Handbook. These included but were not 
limited to a requirement upon Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. In addition to this, COBS required Portal to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, firms like Portal had a number of important responsibilities when providing advice. 
Despite what Mrs W might have thought she wanted at the time, I think her overall 
expectation in paying for regulated financial advice was that she would be clearly guided on 
the basis of her circumstances and means. And Portals responsibility was to provide advice 
that was in her best interests. In particular, it should have been made clear whether it was  
or wasnt - recommending the transfer. Ann the risks of the transfer-out Mrs W was 
apparently interested in should have been pointed out.
I dont think Portal adequately did any of this. 
On 30 January 2014, Portal wrote to Mrs W to summarise the discussions it had had with 
her about her pension and her wider financial circumstances. This should have been an 
opportunity for Portal to clearly and formally set out what its recommendations to Mrs W 
were for her OPS, based on the information it had collected thus far. Portal began the letter 
by saying that it didnt recommend that she transfer away from her pension, but it then 
immediately said that if she wanted to, it could still help arrange this by treating her as an 
insistent client. Portal even included the form for her to do this. Portal said that after this it 
would arrange to send out all the relevant transfer application forms and a suitability report 
detailing its advice.
Mrs W duly signed the insistent client form on 1 February 2014 and returned it to Portal 
which then started the transfer process.
However, I think any reasonable assessment of Mrs Ws situation of that time would have 
shown she was in a vulnerable financial position. She and Mr W were in local authority 
housing and they had no apparent assets whatsoever to call upon. Their income was very 
low and fully accounted for each month, and we know they had a lot of credit card debt. Its 
reasonable to point out that other than her state pension, this OPS was Mrs Ws only source 
of retirement income. I think its also fair to say that the evidence pointed  very strongly  to 
Mrs W not being experienced or knowledgeable of pensions and / or the investments 
associated with personal pension plans. 
Ive also noted that at the point of her signing the insistent client form, Portal hadnt yet 
provided her with what I would say was a formal recommendation where she could make an 
informed choice. I say this because even though shed been sent a brief letter as Ive 
outlined above, the full suitability report on which the eventual recommendation to transfer 
was based, was dated 5 February 2014. This was after Mrs W had already signed and 
returned the form which instigated the transfer. 
Portal said in its suitability report that by: 
following this recommendation, you will: 
Meet your stated objectives and repay your debts and provide a 
financial cushion. 
Be able to take up to 25% of your pension as a Tax-Free Cash 
Lump Sum to meet your needs, you have selected to take £9,614.
In my view, these points were no more than general comments about her pension and 
designed to encourage Mrs W to transfer out of her DB scheme. We also know the suitability 
report itself was probably not even with Mrs W when she was deciding what she wanted to 
do. And even if I were to consider that she might have had an opportunity to think again 
before the irreversible transfer took place, I still think Portals failures fell substantially short 
of what Id expect from a regulated financial adviser. In my view, Portals letter of 30 January 2014 was pre-disposed to encouraging Mrs W to 
transfer out of her OPS from the outset. I also think everything that followed from Portal was 
along the same lines. Its transfer recommendation - whether set out briefly in the letter, or 
more fully, in the suitability report - did no more than pay lip service to the important benefits 
and guarantees Mrs W would be giving up in the process. And while on first look, the 
suitability report did say that its initial recommendation for her was not to transfer out, I think 
this was seriously undermined by Portals statements and actions it made elsewhere. 
There should have been a more comprehensive explanation of the benefits shed be giving 
up and a demonstration that her funds, if transferred out of the scheme, would be highly 
unlikely to grow in a way that would match the benefits of leaving them inside the scheme. It 
also ought to have explained the impact of transferring on Mrs Ws retirement plans, 
including whether shed have enough income to live on at her desired retirement age if she 
transferred out. Portal also promoted the idea that by moving to a personal pension, Mrs W 
would be able to achieve a higher tax-free cash element than by remaining in the OPS. But 
of course, it should also have been carefully explaining that this wasnt without 
consequences and that taking more money out in tax-free cash meant less money for her 
retirement. 
I also havent seen evidence that Mrs W needed access to the pension funds so urgently or 
desperately as to necessitate her transferring away from her OPS. I accept this could have 
been a difficult balance in Mrs Ws case and Im sensitive to the financial challenges she no 
doubt faced. But the advisers job here was to fully explain the trade-off between accessing 
cash now and the whole purpose of a pension: an income in retirement. Theres no doubt 
Mrs W had an extremely tight financial situation and Im sure the prospect of cash would 
have been very appealing to her. But whilst she had credit card debt, this appeared to be in 
an agreeable payment plan, and one accepted by her creditors at the time. I note Mrs W had 
also spoken about potentially returning to work soon, which would have meant an increase 
in income. All these things were supporting reasons to stay inside the scheme whereupon at 
the age of 65, Portal said Mrs Ws pension was estimated at £2,435 per year and a tax-free 
lump sum of £7,306. I think Mrs W would have required this income in her retirement.
However, it was only later in the suitability report that references were made to what Mrs W 
would be giving up and, in my view, these dangers were substantially underplayed. The 
majority of the remaining part of the suitability report was devoted to the personal pension 
fund recommendations, many of which were inappropriate for an investor like Mrs W who 
preferred safe investments. 
In summary then, in this situation, what I would have expected to see a meaningful 
emphasis in the documentation showing the reasons why the transfer was not in Mrs Ws 
best interests.
Suitability of investments 
Portal recommended that Mrs W invest her funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mrs W 
and I dont think she wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had 
been given to her, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because she should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had 
been given. 
SummaryGiven Portal itself has said it initially advised against a transfer, it would be hard for it to now 
argue that the transfer was in fact suitable. I also agree that transferring out was not suitable. 
In my view, there were a number of shortcomings in this case preventing Mrs W from making 
a fully informed decision. I also think its more likely than not that the provision of full 
information and better analysis would have influenced Mrs Ws decision making. So, if Portal 
had followed a better process, I dont think Mrs W would have insisted on going ahead with 
the transfer. I say this for the following reasons:
It would have been clear to Mrs W what she would be losing out by transferring her 
deferred benefits.
Theres no evidence that Mrs W, an inexperienced investor, desired any input or 
control over the investment choices of her pension funds.
Mrs W was paying for independent financial advice, and if that advice had been 
persuasive about the suitability of remaining in her OPS, I think its more likely that 
shed have followed that advice, rather than being pushed immediately down an 
insistent client route.
I have therefore set out in this decision why I dont think Mrs W met the definition of an 
insistent client. I think there is substantial and verifiable evidence that this process was 
used by Portal simply to transact what Mrs W may have thought she wanted to achieve at 
the time  to transfer her pension out to another provider so she could access some cash. 
Portal failed substantially in its duty to Mrs W, so Im upholding her complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mrs W, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs W would have most 
likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mrs W whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. She didnt 
make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case she doesnt want to wait for any new guidance. I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains 
appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mrs W. 
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ws acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income 
tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs W within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mrs W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My current understanding is that some elements of Mrs Ws investments in the personal 
pension may be illiquid, meaning they cant be readily sold on the open market. If this is the 
case it can be complicated to establish its value. To calculate the compensation in this 
event, Portal should agree an amount with the personal pension provider as a commercial 
value, then pay the sum agreed to the personal pension plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investments.
If Portal is genuinely unable to buy the investments, it should give the illiquid investments a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the personal pension 
used in the calculations should include anything Portal has paid into the personal pension 
and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the personal pension should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mrs W to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment she may receive from the investment in future. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives. Portal will need to 
meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mrs W to provide an 
undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of 
that undertaking.
If the circumstances are that the personal pension only really exists because of the illiquid 
investments, then:
In order for the personal pension to be closed (should Mrs W wish to move her investment 
portfolio) and further personal pension fees to be prevented, the investments need to be 
removed from the personal pension. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal 
taking over the investment, or this is something that Mrs W can discuss with her personal 
pension provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. Third parties are involved, 
and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide certainty to all parties, I 
think its fair that Portal pays Mrs W an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of 
personal pension fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should provide a 
reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the personal pension to be closed. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that 
Portal pays the balance.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mrs W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs W any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mrs W the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs W.
If Mrs W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP. My recommendation would not be binding of she doesnt accept. Further, its 
unlikely that Mrs W can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs W 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 Michael Campbell
Ombudsman