DRN-4062589
The complaint
Mrs T, via her representative Mrs M, complains that Phoenix Life Limited hasnt paid out the 
proceeds of an investment she made in 1997.
What happened
In 2022 Mrs M was sorting through Mrs Ts paperwork and found a passbook for a savings 
account with Britannia Building Society (now the Co-operative Bank) that in 1997 was worth 
around £600. She got in touch with the Co-operative, who were able to locate the savings 
account, and paid out the amount it held. They also told Mrs M that according to their 
records Mrs T opened a stocks and shares ISA in March 1997 and they didnt have records 
of it being closed. Mrs M later found a cheque stub showing a payment for £6,000, dated a 
few days before the ISA was opened.   
The Co-operative said that though it would have been sold in a Britannia store, the ISA 
would have actually been provided by Alba Life, which was now Phoenix Life. So, Mrs M got 
in touch with Phoenix Life, but they didnt have any records of the account. They explained 
that ISAs sold by Britannia wouldnt have been provided by Alba Life but rather by Standard 
Life, part of Abrdn. 
Mrs M was unhappy with this as the Co-operative had told her it would be held by Phoenix 
Life, so she made a complaint. Phoenix Life was still unable to find any records of 
investments in Mrs Ts name, and so didnt uphold the complaint. As Mrs M remained 
unhappy, she brought the complaint to our service. When doing so, Mrs M explained she 
remembered Mrs T taking out a Guaranteed Equity Bond (GEB) and thought that was likely 
to be the same product as the ISA. 
An investigator looked into the complaint and found that Phoenix Life had done nothing 
wrong. She said there was no evidence that they had taken over any accounts for Mrs T 
specifically, or the stocks and shares ISA product more generally. Mrs M didnt accept the 
investigators opinion because she felt Mrs T deserved to be provided with some evidence of 
what happened to the investment. As a result, the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. 
I requested further information from Phoenix Life about whether they took over the GEB 
product from Britannia and they confirmed they did not, which our service has also explained 
to Mrs M.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether Phoenix Life has treated Mrs T fairly and reasonably when 
looking for records of any account in her name. Having done so I agree with the conclusions 
the investigator reached, for largely the same reasons. 
Phoenix Life has shared screenshots showing the searches theyve completed of their 
system, using the account number provided by the Co-operative, and Mrs Ts last name and 
postcode, all with no success. Theyve confirmed theyve also searched using her date of 
birth, though theyve not provided a screenshot of this. 
In addition, theyve provided details of the companies which have taken on responsibilities 
for the stocks and shares ISA products sold via the Co-operative. Phoenix Life has 
confirmed they have no products on their books called Guaranteed Equity Bonds. 
Mrs M, on Mrs Ts behalf, has no evidence that Mrs T had a relationship with Phoenix Life, 
other than the Co-operative having directed her to Phoenix Life. Based on everything Ive 
seen, I think Phoenix Life has completed reasonable searches of their records to find any 
accounts in Mrs Ts name. As none have been found, I think its more likely than not that 
Phoenix Life were not the product provider for any investments in Mrs Ts name. 
I appreciate its frustrating for Mrs M and Mrs T to not have confirmation about what 
happened to this ISA. However, Im satisfied that Phoenix Life have no records of it (or any 
other accounts in Mrs Ts name), and that they havent done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman