DRN-3221498
The complaint
Ms Ts complaint is about the handling of a claim she made for subsidence under her 
National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In late 2018 Ms T noticed damage to her home and made a claim to NFU. NFU appointed a 
firm of loss adjusters to investigate the damage. It was concluded the damage had been 
caused because the property had subsided. It was thought that the damage (cracking to the 
left of the property and the right-hand extension) had happened because nearby vegetation 
had dehydrated the clay soil beneath the foundations of the property. A leak from the 
skylight was noted and it was stated that this was not related to the subsidence. Ms T has 
acknowledged that she was told the skylight damage was maintenance related, and not 
linked to the crack damage. 
It was decided that due to the cause of the damage, a subsidence specialist should assess 
the property. This visit took place at the end of November 2018. Unfortunately, there was a 
problem and the damage to the right-hand extension doesnt appear to have been assessed. 
The subsidence specialist agreed with the initial conclusion that the subsidence movement 
was due to vegetative induced clay shrinkage. Site investigations and an arborist report were 
to be completed, to confirm the cause of damage and establish what vegetation needed to 
be removed. 
It was mid-March 2019 by the time it was established what vegetation needed to be 
removed, but this was solely in relation to the damage to the left side of the property. The 
arborist determined that a section of hedge between Ms Ts property and her neighbours to 
the left needed to be removed. There were also trees and shrubs in Ms Ts garden and 
boundary that needed to be removed. In addition, it was recommended that the trees on the 
front boundary be pruned. At the end of March 2019 it was confirmed by the council that 
there was no reason for the vegetation removal and management not to take place.
The arborist was asked to quote for the tree work at the beginning of April. Around the same 
time, Ms T asked some questions about the arborists and subsidence experts reports.  She 
highlighted that neither report included consideration of the damage to the right-hand 
extension. 
A contractor was also appointed to complete the repairs when the property was ready for 
that stage of work. The loss adjusters confirmed in relation to Ms Ts queries, that a site visit 
would be arranged to view all the damage to the property, to ensure that everything 
subsidence related was repaired. It said that all the vegetation on the site, and that in 
neighbouring gardens, had been considered when the arborist had determined what 
vegetation needed to be removed. The loss adjuster requested a site visit for itself and the 
contractor it had appointed.
Ms T responded to this email and again highlighted that there were significant problems with 
both the arborists and subsidence experts reports. Ms T also confirmed that she wasnt 
available on the date that had been suggested for a site visit, but in any event, her concerns 
about the expert reports needed to be addressed before such a meeting took place.
In the middle of May 2019 the arborist attended the property again. A new report was 
produced which determined what vegetation was involved if the cracking to the right-hand 
extension was caused by subsidence. It determined two trees in Ms Ts garden were 
implicated, along with three trees and up to four shrubs in the neighbouring garden.
The loss adjusters explained to Ms T that the purpose of the site meeting was to determine 
what damage was present and what repairs were required. In other words, it would deal with 
her concerns that some of the damage wasnt included in the subsidence experts original 
report. It asked Ms T to provide some dates that would be convenient for her. 
On 10 June 2019 Ms T complained about how the claim was being handled. Specifically, 
she was concerned that it had been eight months since shed made the claim, but no 
monitoring had been done and the reports that had been produced were, in her opinion, 
glaringly inaccurate. She said that no measurements had been made of the foundations and 
the damaged skylight in the extension had been dismissed as maintenance, when she 
considered it had been caused by movement to the gable ends of the property. She said that 
the role of the neighbours trees had been dismissed and no mention had been made of soil 
erosion which she considered was plainly evidence from a cursory inspection of the path and 
terrace where the paving was uneven and a trip hazard. Ms T also highlighted that the drains 
hadnt been inspected. Ms T was unhappy that she hadnt been told who had overall 
responsibility for the claim or what remedial works NFU was proposing. In relation to the 
arborist, she complained that the member of its staff that had attended her property had 
refused to provide her with a breakdown of the costs of the tree removal, as she was not its 
client. She was not happy about that individuals attitude toward her.
At the beginning of August 2019 Ms T repeated her complaint to the loss adjusters. She 
highlighted that it had been nine months since the claim had been made, but there had been 
no investigations completed, no monitoring and no drainage survey. She again asked what 
remedial works were planned. She again complained about the member of staff from the 
arborist, as he had refused to breakdown the quote in the way she wanted it done. She said 
she didnt want that individual to do the tree works.
The loss adjusters acknowledged the complaint a few days later and passed it on to NFU to 
be addressed. 
On 30 July 2019 Ms T has told us there was a storm where she lives, and water entered the 
extension through the leak in the roof and caused damage to some contents. Shes told us 
that she was told when she called about the issue that if the roof was being dealt with as part 
of the subsidence claim, the issue would be dealt with as part of that claim.
Ms T agreed to a site visit on 14 August 2019. The notes from the site meeting confirmed 
that there was subsidence damage to the right-hand extension. Ms T had raised concerns 
about what vegetation would be removed, and the possibility it might cause heave to occur. 
It was agreed that the arborist would review the requirements for vegetation removal, taking 
into account the need to ensure heave didnt occur. In relation to the skylight, it was noted 
there was internal evidence of water ingress. Ms T said that this was recent and believed it 
was due to the subsidence movement. The repairs manager believed the leak could have 
been caused by subsidence movement to the roof and confirmed that he would arrange for 
temporary repairs to be completed to stop any water ingress. The concept of monitoring was 
discussed with Ms T. While it wasnt certain that monitoring would be needed, some studs 
were installed on internal cracks to make it easier if it was decided to monitor following the 
removal of the vegetation. It was also established at the meeting that Ms T had concerns about the removal of the hedge on the boundary between her property and that of her 
left-hand neighbour.
Following this meeting, the loss adjusters ordered temporary repairs for the skylight. It also 
asked the arborist for an opinion on whether the hedge could remain in place if it was 
managed and on the risk of heave. The arborist confirmed that if the hedge remained in 
place, even with management, there was the risk of further subsidence. It was also 
confirmed that due to the age of the trees and hedge, it was highly unlikely there would be 
any damage from heave. 
At the end of August 2019 Ms T contacted the loss adjusters as shed not been contacted 
about the temporary repairs to the skylight. The loss adjuster explained that it was having 
problems finding a contractor to do the temporary repairs, but it hoped to get it arranged 
soon. It was confirmed that the hedge needed to be removed and that heave was not going 
to be an issue. 
Ms T confirmed at that point that she was willing to have the necessary section of the hedge 
removed and the remainder lowered. She raised the issue that the removal would leave her 
without a solid boundary between her garden and her left-hand neighbours garden. As such, 
she suggested that a smaller section of hedge be removed, where her neighbours had 
already installed a fence on their side of the boundary.
A roofing contractor attended Ms Ts home at the beginning of September 2019, but there 
was a misunderstanding about what was meant to be done. It believed it was there to 
produce a quote and so the individual wasnt equipped to complete the temporary repairs.
It was decided in early September 2019 that a further site visit was needed. Ms T asked 
what the point of this meeting was. The loss adjusters had a conversation with Ms T shortly 
thereafter. It was explained to Ms T that the drains at her property were not an issue; rather 
the site investigations completed had determined it was the trees dehydrating the ground 
beneath the foundations. During this conversation Ms T again confirmed that she was happy 
for the vegetation to be removed. The loss adjusters told her it was waiting for a quote for 
the replacement fencing, and then it would be NFUs decision whether to pay for it. The loss 
adjusters also confirmed that the further site visit was so that a schedule of works could be 
drawn up, as the appointed contractor had been unable to attend the August visit.
Following this, the loss adjusters contacted Ms T to ask whether she objected to a copy of 
the arborist report being passed to the neighbours on the right of her property. This was 
because the arborists report had concluded some of the vegetation that needed removing 
was in the neighbours garden.  It also confirmed that it had requested a quote for the tree 
and fence works, but this wasnt requested until over two weeks later.
The site meeting for the contractor to create the schedule of works took place on 
23 September 2019.  The following day the loss adjusters wrote to the neighbours on the 
right for the first time. 
NFU issued its final response to Ms Ts complaint on 26 September 2019. It acknowledged 
the first report from the subsidence expert was wrong, which then led to the arborist report 
being wrong too. It said that this was not the appropriate level of service Ms T should have 
received and it paid her £250 compensation for the upset and inconvenience shed suffered.
The neighbours on the right questioned the need to remove their vegetation. This was 
because they didnt consider that a suitably qualified person had assessed the damage to 
the extension and determined the cause of it. The neighbours asked for more evidence to 
show their vegetation was the cause before they would agree to removal. When the arborist attended at the beginning of October 2019 to produce the quote for the 
tree and fence works, it reported that Ms T had said that she didnt want a fence to go only 
halfway down the front garden due to the aesthetics and security concerns. As such, the 
arborist said that it would produce a quote for removing the hedge from the full length of the 
front garden and replacing it with a fence. It said it had warned Ms T that NFU might not pay 
for the additional work and fencing. The quote was produced on 28 October 2019. It detailed 
the tree work that would be completed, including removal of the hedge within three metres of 
the property and the costing for the replacement fence. The quote detailed 
Supply and install 6ft feather-edge, close-board timber fence on 6 inch gravel board (6 ft 6 
inch total height) to fill gap in boundary left by H1 section removal. £1365.00
NFU agreed to pay for the fence to replace the section of the hedge that needed to be 
removed to stop the subsidence. It didnt, however, agree to cover the entire cost of 
removing the hedge from the entire front boundary and replace it with a fence  it would only 
contribute 50% of the cost. This confirmation was given at the end of November 2019 and 
Ms T was asked what she wanted to do. 
At this point the loss adjuster started to discuss repairing the property with Ms T. She asked 
about the right-hand neighbours response to the request for tree works. The loss adjuster 
hadnt at this point responded to the neighbours request for more substantive evidence 
requiring the tree to be removed. 
At the beginning of November 2019 Ms T emailed the loss adjusters. She said that she 
believed NFU should be:
1. Removing the vegetation identified as causing problems;
2. Repairing the guttering, drains and down pipes to stop the soil erosion 
underneath the house which was causing subsidence movement;
3. Stopping water entering the extension through the roof, which was causing 
damage to the fabric of the building; and
4. Replace the paving to the front and back of the property which had become 
uneven because of the subsidence.
Only once all of the above was done, did Ms T consider the internal decoration should be 
done, which is what she considered the schedule of works that had been produced 
consisted of. Ms T wanted to know why none of the work needed had been done so far.
In the middle of December 2019, Ms T chased the loss adjusters for a response to her email 
of November setting out what she thought needed doing before internal repairs started. She 
also chased the temporary repairs to the skylight and the removal of the vegetation. 
The loss adjusters confirmed that the contractor had assured it that the temporary repairs 
would be done as soon as possible. However, if Ms T wanted to make her own 
arrangements, she could do so, and the loss adjusters would reimburse her. It again set out 
the options available to Ms T about the fencing. In relation to the paving slabs at the front 
and back of the property, it said that no photographs were available, but it would speak to 
the repairs manager who had attended the property and provide her with a response. 
Ms T confirmed that she wanted to go for the option of just having a section of the hedge 
removed and fenced. However, as she didnt like the fence type NFU had proposed to install 
and asked if she could have the fencing cash settled. She also asked if the excess could be 
offset against the amount NFU would pay for the fence, meaning that it would only have to pay her £265. NFU agreed to Ms T installing her own fence, but unfortunately, the loss 
adjusters noted on its records that the £265 that NFU needed to contribute toward the fence 
was actually a contribution that needed to be made by Ms T. This meant that the loss 
adjusters refused to make the payment to Ms T  There were some discussions about the 
costs associated with the removal and fencing of the remainder of the front garden, but as 
Ms T had opted for only a partial removal, the discussions were academic. 
The tree works were instructed in the middle of January 2020 and completed at the very 
beginning of February 2020. This, however, only involved the vegetation inside Ms Ts 
garden and didnt deal with the vegetation in the garden of the right-hand neighbours.
The loss adjusters also confirmed in mid-January 2020 that it couldnt confirm whether the 
damage to the paving was due to subsidence. As such, the contractors would look at the 
issue further when on site doing the repairs. Ms T responded to this and confirmed that the 
problem with the slabs had been caused by specifically root damage and soil erosion under 
the terrace at the back and in front of the extension. Ms T complained again about the 
amount of time the claim had taken and the fact that the underlying problems, as she saw 
them, hadnt been dealt with. She also raised concerns about the fact that agreement to tree 
works hadnt been obtained from the neighbours to the right of the property. Ms T said that 
the roof of the extension was still leaking and shed been unable to use the room for several 
months as a result of the mould and fungus that had developed in the damp environment.
The loss adjuster responded to Ms T in the middle of February 2020, maintaining that it had 
completed the necessary investigations and that it was in a position to start the repairs. It 
gave Ms T two options  it would repair, or she could have a cash settlement and arrange 
the repairs herself. 
In response Ms T again questioned the timescales involved in the claim. She asked what 
was happening with the neighbours trees. She also chased the emergency repairs to the 
extension roof, raised the fact that no repairs had been done and again the issue of the 
erosion to the soil under and around her home. 
The loss adjusters at this stage stepped back from the position that the repairs could be 
started immediately. It confirmed that it had been in touch with the right-hand neighbours 
and the repairs couldnt be completed until the neighbours trees had been dealt with. It 
again apologised about the emergency repairs to Ms Ts roof not having been done and said 
the contractors would be in touch with her shortly. 
In March 2020 the contractor NFU had appointed to complete the repairs to Ms Ts home 
inspected the roof of the extension. It concluded that water was entering the extension 
because the frame of the skylight was rotten and affected by vegetation growing on the roof. 
Photographs were taken that clearly showed the frame was rotten. It was concluded that the 
roof leaking wasnt linked to subsidence but rather due to the skylight needing maintenance. 
Unfortunately, the report wasnt sent to the loss adjusters until 21 September 2020. Ms T 
was told about the contractors conclusions a few days later and it was also confirmed the 
roof damage wouldnt be covered under the subsidence claim.
A few days later, having discussed Mr Ts concerns with her, the loss adjusters wrote to 
Ms T confirming that it believed her complaint about how the claim had been handled had 
been resolved. It confirmed that that in resolution of the complaint:
1. A subsidence consultant would attend the property to review Ms Ts concerns 
about erosion. Any recommendations for further site investigations needed would be 
followed; and2. The property would be monitored, which would enable it to provide the right-
hand neighbours with evidence their vegetation was causing movement in Ms Ts home.
Several weeks later Ms T responded to the loss adjusters. She didnt agree that the 
complaint had been resolved, although she did thank the loss adjusters for its apology. She 
set out what investigations she wanted done and the damage she thought the ongoing 
movement was causing to her home. She again chased the emergency repairs to the 
extension roof. Ms T said that because of being unaware of when the repairs would be being 
done, she had lost work as shed been unable to confirm that she would be able to fulfil her 
commitments. She also highlighted that shed had to take time off for site visits, and as a 
self-employed person, didnt get paid for that time.
A new claim handler was put in place at the loss adjusters and the status of the claim 
reviewed. Ms T said that she accepted that the drainage survey, emergency repairs to the 
roof and any other works required couldnt be arranged until lockdown was lifted. She 
summarised her concerns as:
1. The condition of the foundations to either side of the property;
2. The extension roof letting water in; and
3. The neighbours vegetation.
Again, the loss adjusters promised that the emergency repairs to the roof would be done as 
soon as possible. It also confirmed that it would arrange a subsidence expert to attend the 
property as soon as possible to assess the property, including the paving, and consider 
Ms Ts concerns about erosion. This would enable the right plan of action to be put in place 
to move the claim forward. 
Further discussions took place about the neighbours vegetation and the loss adjusters 
pursuit of its management. During this Ms T informed the loss adjusters that shed attempted 
to have the neighbours do something about their trees before, due to the roots having 
caused the paved areas in her garden to have become uneven and damaged. However, 
they hadnt cooperated. Ms T asked if it was possible to find a method of stopping the tree 
root damage without the co-operation of the neighbours. The loss adjusters arranged for the 
arborist to attend the property and have a conversation with the neighbours once it was safe 
to do so (due to the pandemic). 
Toward the end of May 2020 Ms T again raised concerns about the handling of her claim. 
She reiterated that not knowing when the repairs would be done had placed her in a difficult 
position. She also highlighted that the construction industry was allowed to work at that time 
and asked why nothing had been done on her claim.
On 9 June 2020 the loss adjusters commissioned additional site investigations and a 
drainage survey. It also instructed a deep datum to be installed, so that level monitoring 
could be done. The following day the loss adjusters confirmed to Ms T that these 
investigations would be done, and that crack monitoring would be started. As it was satisfied 
the left-hand side of the property was stable due to the vegetation being removed, it offered 
to have the repairs in that area of the house done immediately.
Ms T was satisfied with the proposals for further investigations, although she didnt want the 
repairs started at that time. She also told the loss adjusters again that she didnt consider her 
complaint had been settled. Ms T also reported additional damage to the extension. The 
result of the discussions was that it would be best to repair the entire property at the same 
time, in case the movement in the extension caused further damage to the main house.The loss adjusters escalated the complaint about the handling of the claim to NFU at the 
beginning of July 2020.
It was the middle of June 2020 that the loss adjusters addressed Ms Ts concerns about 
leaking drains and erosion of the soil beneath the foundations. One of its subsidence experts 
explained that Ms Ts property was built on clay. This type of soil was not prone to erosion 
due to escapes of water; rather the main problem with it was that it would shrink and swell 
readily when the moisture content changed. That said, saturation of the ground could cause 
it to soften and reduce its ability to support load. It was explained that once the vegetation 
that was causing the clay to dehydrate was removed, the soil would rehydrate, and the 
property would become stable. At that point superstructural crack repairs and redecoration 
was all that would be needed. It confirmed that this was why it had said that the repairs to 
the left of the property could be done, as the cause of the movement had been removed. 
The drainage survey results were provided at the end of June 2020 and determined there 
were defects on two drainage runs at the property. These were to do with the surface water 
drain from a rainwater pipe at the rear left-hand corner of the property to the manhole, and 
from the WC at the front of the main building to where it joined the main sewer run. The loss 
adjuster confirmed these drainage problems wouldnt have caused the subsidence and as 
such, wouldnt be repaired as part of the subsidence claim. It did, however, say that a 
second claim for damage to underground services could be made and the repairs would be 
done under that claim. Ms T agreed to the second claim being set up. Repairs to the two 
drainage runs Ms T was responsible for were done. 
Subsequently, the loss adjusters explained to Ms T that it would write to the local water 
authority to suggest that it might want to inspect the main shared drain and complete any 
repairs that were necessary. Ms T alleged that the repairs NFU was responsible for were not 
done. In addition, Ms T didnt believe that there were shared drains within the boundary of 
her home. 
The site investigations also confirmed that the ground beneath Ms Ts home was clay. Roots 
from several trees and shrubs near the extension were identified. The neighbours were 
written to with the results of the further investigations.  Monitoring also started at that time.
Correspondence continued between Ms T and the loss adjusters. Ms T reported additional 
damage to the house in both existing and new areas, and that damage to the front door no 
longer needed to be addressed. Ms T also raised with NFU that shed incurred £300 costs 
for a structural engineer to assess her home. She explained that her confidence in the loss 
adjusters had been destroyed and she didnt have any faith in its ability to do the job. 
In August 2020 the neighbours agreed to complete vegetation works in their garden. The 
works were completed the following month.
NFU issued its final response on the complaint on 10 November 2020. It said: 
The issue with the early reports not covering all the damage to the property 
was addressed under previous complaint so it wouldnt comment further.
In relation to the replacement fence, it had agreed the excess could be offset 
and NFU would contribute to the fencing she wanted. The loss adjuster was looking into 
this issue and could refer back to Ms T.
In relation to the communications with the right-hand neighbours, this had 
partially been dealt with under previous complaint. However, there has been a further 
three months of delay since then and an incorrect report was provided, which caused 
confusion. This was corrected. NFU also said that once the neighbours had disputed the need to remove their vegetation, monitoring should have started, but wasnt. NFU 
acknowledged that more should have been done and this has impacted the claim. 
In relation to the drainage survey Ms T had wanted done, NFU 
acknowledged that shed questioned this in June 2019, but the loss adjuster had 
overlooked it. While this had been rectified under a separate claim, NFU appreciate the 
added inconvenience it had caused. 
Regarding the roof of the extension, it confirmed that the loss adjuster had 
agreed to complete a temporary repair, but that this hadnt been done. It had now been 
established that the damage wasnt related to the subsidence. NFU had said it would 
refer the matter to a senior subsidence consultant for final comment and it invited Ms T 
to provide her own report on the cause of damage. NFU said that the outcome of this 
issue should have been communicated much earlier and acknowledged this would have 
given her the opportunity to repair the damage herself. 
NFU confirmed that as all the tree works had been completed, the property 
would be monitored until spring and then, if stable, repairs would be done. 
NFU summarised by saying that the handling of her claim had fallen short of 
the level of service Ms T should have received. In recognition, of the delay and distress 
shed experienced over the period of the claim, it awarded £1,000 compensation. It 
confirmed that a cheque would be sent. 
Ms T asked this service to consider her complaint. She highlighted the scope of the 
complaint response letter and that it didnt contain any reference to what she considered the 
fundamental issue  the foundations of the house. She said she had asked whether the 
foundations have been compromised as a result of the subsidence and to what extent. She 
highlighted that no plans have been produced to repair the foundations and shed been told 
the insurer no longer did underpinning. Ms T said she was concerned about the structural 
integrity of the house. In addition, she was unhappy that NFU had backtracked on the 
promise it had made in August 2019 to repair the roof, despite her being repeatedly assured 
the damage was going to be dealt with as part of the subsidence claim.  
In relation to the consequential claim for drainage repairs, Ms T had concerns about what 
had happened with that and errors she believed NFUs contractors had made. 
Ms T didnt accept NFUs response and asked this service to consider her complaint. 
Due to the further lockdown, the monitoring was meant to be paused at the beginning of 
2021. However, the monitoring company continued to monitor, and it was confirmed by the 
subsidence expert toward the end of February 2021 that the monitoring showed the property 
was stable. As such, the loss adjusters confirmed that repairs could proceed. 
The loss adjuster attempted to arrange a site visit from February 2021 so that the repairs 
could be agreed and to sort out arrangements so the repairs caused as little inconvenience 
as possible. Ms T said she didnt see the point of a site visit until the foundations were 
repaired. She repeated what she considered needed to be done before the internal repairs 
could be done: foundations, drains, terrace, monitoring, roof repairs. She asked what would 
be achieved with a further site visit.
It was reiterated that the site visit was to review the damage and agree what repairs needed 
to be done. It was explained the visit would also allow Ms Ts concerns to be revisited and 
her outstanding concerns answered. It was reiterated that the property was stable. Ms T was 
asked what she wanted to do. Ms T said that the damage to the property had escalated and 
was now all over the house  doors didnt close, and the front door had needed to be eased. 
She referred to the opinion of a structural engineer shed reported to the loss adjusters and that it had been flatly contradicted by a subsidence expert who had never been to the 
property. When asked, Ms T confirmed the structural engineer didnt produce a report. Ms T 
said that she thought the property was still moving. 
There was much discussion over the following months and the loss adjusters repeatedly 
attempted to explain the situation and why it was ok to move to repairs. Ms T remained 
unconvinced and she maintained that structural repairs were needed. The contractor that 
had been appointed in 2019 attended the property in May 2021 to complete a new schedule 
of works. 
It was eventually agreed that one of the loss adjusters subsidence experts would meet with 
Ms T to discuss her concerns. This happened on 25 May 2021. The notes the expert 
produced said that hed taken further monitoring readings and that these showed that the 
cracking in the left of the property was stable and that in the extension had actually closed 
slightly. It was explained that this showed the property was no longer subsiding, despite 
Ms T being worried that it was. It was detailed that at the back of the extension the gutter 
was missing and the rainwater pipe to the front left corner was discharging directly onto the 
ground. Ms T was told that she needed to replace the guttering and have the rainwater pipe 
redirected to a gully. The subsidence expert said that he could recommend to NFU that six 
months of level monitoring be done to allay Ms Ts fears, but she was happy with his 
explanation that the property was stable. As such, a packing and storage service was 
offered for the period of the repairs. It was also confirmed that a visit from the repairs 
manager and contractor to go over the enhanced repairs that were proposed for the 
property.
The following day Ms T emailed the subsidence expert and thanked him for going through 
the issues with her and explaining why it had been concluded the movement had stopped. 
She said shed forgotten to show him the middle bedroom door, which was bowed and no 
longer fitted its frame. Just over a week later, Ms T told the loss adjusters that the discussion 
with the subsidence expert hadnt changed her mind and there was no agreement on any of 
the outstanding issues. She expressed dissatisfaction that it had taken NFU so long to tell 
her that the roof wasnt covered. 
The loss adjusters and Ms T exchanged correspondence, with both setting out their 
previously explained positions. Neither changed their view or opinions.
In July 2021 there was a further site visit from the repairs manager. Following this the loss 
adjusters confirmed that the repairs manager had reviewed the schedule of works and was 
satisfied that it was correct based on what had been seen and discussed at the site meeting. 
It was maintained that the property was ready for repair and if Ms T wanted it, a cash 
settlement could be made. The loss adjusters said it would leave Ms T to consider the 
information she had and give her time to raise any further questions. Ms T responded and 
again confirmed that her concerns hadnt been resolved and she still didnt accept the 
decision regarding the extension roof. 
Ms T was informed in August 2021 that NFU would not change its decision regarding the 
extension roof. She was also told that at that point she had three options:
1. Provide her own expert report and, if it changed the outcome of the claim, 
NFU would reimburse the cost.
2. Allow NFU to repair the property. Or
3. Accept a cash settlement for the repairs.
Ms T responded by reiterating that she had no way of knowing whether the property had 
stopped moving. She also said that she couldnt afford to fund her own expert report and commented that NFU had refused to reimburse the £300 she had paid her structural 
engineer in 2019. She again repeated what she wanted the repairs to cover. She said that 
she felt like she was being ignored and NFU were trying to bully her into accepting 
something that wasnt right for her house.
The loss adjusters responded and confirmed that it didnt consider the foundations had been 
compromised. It said that it would await the outcome of this services findings and would 
revisit anything we told it to. 
Ms T reverted to the loss adjusters in September 2021 regarding the doors in the property. It 
was arranged that an internal door was eased. Ms T then said that the doors on the first floor 
of the property were all deformed and had been for some time. She also said that shed had 
trouble closing the back door. Ms T told the claim handler that shed had to have the front 
door worked on as it couldnt be opened, but the first claim handler at the loss adjusters 
hadnt responded about this issue. Shed had to pay for this work herself. 
The loss adjuster responded by providing Ms T with another copy of the subsidence experts 
site notes from May 2021. It said that in order to provide Ms T with further evidence of the 
stability of the property, it would need to complete six months of level monitoring, but she 
had declined this offer. It repeated that carrying out the repairs in the schedule of works 
would rectify all the issues. Ms T was again told that if she disagreed about the stability of 
the property, she would need to provide her own expert report proving her position. 
Ms T responded by again stating that she wanted a report on the foundations completed by 
a qualified structural engineer. She reiterated her opinions about the monitoring and the 
repairs. She didnt consider any of the issues she had repeatedly raised had been resolved. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ts complaint. He confirmed that we could only 
consider the issues that had been dealt with in NFUs final response letter of 20 November 
2020. He didnt uphold the complaint, as he was satisfied that NFUs position on the claim, 
including the matter of the roof, was reasonable. He was also of the view that the 
compensation it had awarded was appropriate in the circumstances.
Ms T didnt consider that dealing with the issues with the claim in three separate parts was 
appropriate as it was one complaint. Our investigator responded, but as agreement couldnt 
be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 November 2021. In that document I 
set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Following reviewing the claim file, alongside the complaint correspondence, I asked NFU if it 
would agree to me considering all of Ms Ts concerns about the claim, rather than just the 
issues covered in the November 2020 final response. NFU agreed for me to do so. 
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have gone into a significant amount of detail when setting out the background of this 
complaint. However, it does include some summarising and I may not have mentioned 
issues on each occasion they have been raised. I would reassure Ms T that I have read all of 
the evidence that has been provided by her, the loss adjusters and NFU. I will deal with each 
issue separately and also provide some generic information about such claims, which will 
hopefully give some context to the claim.NFU has accepted liability for the subsidence damage to Ms Ts home. At the core of this 
dispute is that Ms T isnt convinced that the property is stable and, it appears that based on 
a conversation shes had with a structural engineer, isnt persuaded that the repairs NFU are 
proposing are sufficient to repair her home. Ms T believes that the property is moving for two 
reasons. The first being the vegetative clay shrinkage and the second being erosion of the 
underlying ground due to leaking drains and problems with the rainwater goods.
Before I consider the engineering evidence in this case, I believe it would be appropriate to 
explain an insurers obligations in relation to a subsidence claim. Under the terms and 
conditions of an insurance policy, an insurer is only required to repair the damage caused by 
an insured event. So technically, all the policy would require of NFU is to repair the cracks in 
the above ground structure (superstructure) of the property. However, the insurer is also 
required to provide a lasting repair. This means in real terms the insurer needs to stop the 
subsidence before it can repair the superstructure, or the repairs will fail quickly thereafter. It 
will only be required to complete structural stabilisation works (repairing the foundations as 
Ms T has described it) if there is progressive movement in the property that cant be stopped 
by other means. The insurer is not expected to complete preventative works, designed to 
stop any possibility of movement in the future.
I would also explain that most buildings will move slightly throughout the year due to 
seasonal changes in the ground beneath the foundations. This is called seasonal movement 
and because the amount of movement is small and not long-standing (there will be 
movement down and back up again), it doesnt cause damage to the fabric of the building or 
its foundations. This type of movement is normal and doesnt require the building to be 
structurally reinforced below ground level. Indeed, doing so when its not needed can create 
problems of its own.
When a claim is made for subsidence damage, the insurer will investigate its cause and 
assess whether the property is moving and, if it is, why. These investigations will involve 
establishing the type of ground the property has been built on, whether there is vegetation 
nearby and often whether there are any faults with the local drainage system. This is to 
establish what the cause of the subsidence is/was. Crack and level monitoring may also 
often be done to establish if the property is moving during the investigations if there are no 
clear reasons for the subsidence or evidence is needed for third parties. It is more often the 
case for monitoring to be done after mitigation works have been completed in order for an 
insurer to ensure that the property has stopped moving and any recovery has been 
completed before it starts repairs. The decision about whether monitoring is needed and if 
so, what type and for how long, will be made by the subsidence experts based on the 
individual circumstances of the claim.
If a property is moving, the insurer will carry out works to stop the movement. These works 
wont necessarily involve making alterations to the structure of the property (such as 
underpinning). Often subsidence will be caused by an external factor, such as vegetation 
dehydrating clay soils or leaking drains washing away small particles from granular soils. If 
the external factor is removed, then the subsidence will usually stop, and that is all the 
insurer is required to do in such circumstances. 
I note that Ms T felt that when she met with one of the loss adjusters subsidence experts, he 
was trying to induce her to agree to things she didnt want to by offering to give her a 
certificate of structural adequacy. It is normal, at the end of a subsidence claim for the 
policyholder to be provided with a certificate of structural adequacy. So it seems unlikely that 
this was offered as an inducement. It would seem more likely that it was an explanation of 
process and confirmed in order to reassure Ms T.In this case, I dont believe there is any question that the property was subsiding and that the 
cause of the movement was vegetative clay shrinkage, causing the foundations to drop 
slightly. This movement caused cracking in the property. I know that this cracking will appear 
as very significant to Ms T, as some of the cracks are quite long and there is cracking in 
various areas of her home. However, given the width of the cracks, the cracking is 
considered, in engineering terms, to be slight. This would mean that it doesnt affect the 
structural integrity of the property and it would also mean that the movement of the 
foundations wont have been significant enough to have caused them to have suffered 
damage that means they arent capable of supporting the house in an entirely adequate 
manner. 
So, if the removal and reduction of the vegetation has created stability in Ms Ts home, I 
dont consider NFU has acted unreasonably in determining that no repairs or strengthening 
is needed to the foundations. I will comment on the property stability later in this document.
Drainage
Ms T has raised concerns about the drains and believes that they are likely to be causing 
erosion to the ground beneath the foundations of her home and under the paved areas in 
both her front and back gardens. 
NFU identified that there were two drainage runs within the borders of Ms Ts property that 
had damage that could be causing them to leak. Ms T is concerned that the leaks have 
caused erosion to the ground under her home. I would firstly comment that given Ms Ts 
property is built on clay, that isnt how such leaks would have affected the underlying soil. 
Erosion can occur because of leaks, but it is dependent on the type of soil  it will happen in 
granular soils, such as sandy or chalky soils. In clay, the water leaking from drains will be 
absorbed by the clay and that can cause it to become soft and less able to support loads, 
but it wont erode and leave voids as Ms T appears to believe is possible.
In this case, the subsidence expert considered the location of the two leaks and the scale of 
them. He concluded that given the locations of the leaks and the location of the subsidence 
damage, the drains werent causing the subsidence. This conclusion doesnt seem 
unreasonable and no alternative expert evidence has been provided (directly from an 
expert), to suggest that is incorrect. 
In light of this I dont consider NFU was wrong to exclude the repair of the drains from the 
subsidence claim. It was also reasonable that a second claim for accidental damage to 
underground services was set up in order to complete the repairs. I am satisfied that NFU 
did complete repairs to the two drainage runs damage was identified on. 
However, there appears to have been some confusion caused by discussions about the 
main shared drains. NFU told Ms T that it had notified the local water authority that there had 
been damage to drainage that flowed into the shared drains for which it was responsible. It 
explained to Ms T that this was so that the water authority could examine the shared drains 
and complete any repairs that were necessary. Ms T appears to have taken that this meant 
there are problems with those drains and that NFU hadnt completed the repairs it should 
have; that isnt the case. NFU didnt examine those drains, it made the notification it did as a 
precaution. There may be no issues with the shared drains, but if there were, NFU couldnt 
legally do any works on them as they dont belong to Ms T.
Ms T has said that there is no shared drainage on her property. All domestic drainage, that is 
attached to mains drainage systems, will run into shared drains. These drains, whether on 
public property or under an individuals home or garden, are the responsibility of the local 
water authority. It is quite normal for such drains to be under private property and based on the drainage survey that was undertaken, there are shared drains on Ms Ts property. 
However, I dont think that particularly matters in the situation of the drainage claim, as NFU 
has completed the repairs that it was required to do. I dont consider that it needs to do 
anything more in this respect.
Monitoring and stability of the property
Ms T has raised concerns about the monitoring that was completed on the property; she 
considers it was inadequate both in scope and in timing. 
As I explained above, monitoring is not always needed where the cause of the subsidence is 
clear from the outset. Indeed, monitoring to evidence movement when such movement is 
obviously occurring is becoming less prevalent in the industry as it can cause the duration of 
a claim to be longer than it needs to be. And a common concern for consumers is the 
duration of such claims, even where nothing goes wrong. So the fact that NFU didnt start 
monitoring the property when the claim was made is not something that I can find it at fault 
for. 
However, where third party vegetation needs to be removed, monitoring is more likely. If, for 
example, a tree that needs to be removed belongs to a council, the council will require 
monitoring and other investigations to prove its tree is responsible and needs to be removed 
or managed. In the case of private individuals, it is often the case that such proof isnt 
needed, but in this case it was. The right-hand neighbour questioned the evidence regarding 
both the movement to the extension and his vegetation being responsible. I consider that 
this is the point NFU should have arranged monitoring, but it was almost six months later 
when it made that decision. 
In relation to the scope of the monitoring, it was relatively minimal  one point in each area of 
damage. However, that doesnt mean that its inadequate. If the right areas are being 
monitored, that is what counts. More points wont necessarily provide better information. 
The monitoring readings have been assessed by NFUs subsidence experts and its been 
concluded that the property is stable. No evidence or expert opinion has been provided that 
contradicts this conclusion and as such, I dont think that NFU needs to do further 
monitoring. That said, despite NFU being satisfied that the subsidence movement had 
stopped, it offered to complete six months of level monitoring to reassure Ms T. It didnt have 
to do this, and I can only find that NFU behaved reasonably when it did. 
In light of the stability of the property, superstructural repairs can begin.
Leaking roof
Ms T believes that the leak in the roof of the extension is as a result of the subsidence 
movement. NFU had the skylight examined. This report concluded that the leak had been 
caused because of lack of maintenance  the frame of the skylight had rotted and needed to 
be replaced. I have reviewed this report and the accompanying photographs and that does 
appear to be the case. As such, I cant find that NFU acted inappropriately when it declined 
to repair this damage. 
Ms T has complained about how this matter was handled and I have to agree with both her 
and NFU, that it was not always handled well. However, I am not persuaded that the mistake 
NFU made in the summer of 2019 made any material difference to what happened in this 
regard. I say this as when the property was first inspected in November 2018 Ms T was told 
that the damage causing the skylight to leak was maintenance related and not something 
covered by the insurance policy. This position was maintained for the following nine months. 
Ms T didnt agree with the conclusion and did nothing about repairing the problem herself. In the summer of 2019 Ms T again put forward that the problem was subsidence related and 
a member of staff from the loss adjusters, who wasnt a subsidence expert, thought that it 
might be. He said that NFU would complete temporary repairs immediately. Had that 
member of staff not made that mistake, I am not persuaded that Ms T would have changed 
her opinion that the damage should be included in the claim and remedied the situation 
herself. So while Ms T had her expectations raised for a period, and the second rejection of 
the damage by NFU clearly upset Ms T, I dont consider she was in any different a position 
when NFU declined to cover the damage for the second time, that she would have been in 
had it maintained its initial stance. I will include the upset and disappointment caused to 
Ms T when I review the compensation NFU has paid.
Replacement fence
Had NFU installed the fence where the hedge was removed to the left of Ms Ts property it 
would have cost it £1,365 plus VAT. This was for a basic standard of fence panel, which was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Again reasonably, NFU agreed that Ms T could have a cash settlement for this amount, as 
she wanted to install a different type of fence. This means that NFU was due to pay Ms T 
£1,365 for this, plus VAT if it was incurred. However, Ms T asked that the £1,100 subsidence 
excess be offset against this sum. This was agreed, but something went wrong at the loss 
adjusters, as it then refused to pay Ms T the difference. 
NFU owes Ms T £265 for installation of the fence. If she incurred VAT when installing her 
fence, NFU would be due to pay up to the amount of VAT on the £1,365 it would have cost 
it. Settlement of VAT would be dependent on Ms T proving that she paid VAT. 
Ms T has mentioned an additional sum of £905. This relates to the additional costs that 
would have been incurred had Ms T chosen to have the hedge completely removed from the 
front garden and replaced with a basic fence. As Ms T didnt chose this option, she is not 
due any payment in this respect. 
Errors and resulting delays
NFU has admitted that there were mistakes made during the course of the claim 
investigation and handling and that this caused delays. The most obvious was that the 
subsidence expert that examined the property didnt include the damage to the extension in 
his report. This then had a knock-on effect on the arborist report not including the vegetation 
that was influencing the extension. 
There was also the effect that the right-hand neighbours rightly pointed out, when they were 
asked to complete works on their vegetation, that the expert opinion didnt evidence that 
there was subsidence to the extension or that their vegetation was the cause. There is no 
guarantee that such evidence would have caused the neighbour to take action in a shorter 
timescale, but it may have done. Even if it wouldnt have caused the neighbour to co-operate 
at an earlier stage, as I have said above, the action needed in that circumstance was 
delayed by around six months. 
Determining the exact extend of delays and which party is responsible for them is not a 
precise science. However, in this case I am satisfied that NFUs representatives are 
responsible for around a year of delays. 
Ms Ts engineering opinionMs T explained to us that when things started going wrong, she felt the need to consult a 
firm of structural engineers for advice. She informed our investigator the name of that 
company  it is not a subsidence specialist, but rather is specialised in new construction. 
While she has told us and NFU that she paid £300 for this assistance, it didnt provide a 
report of its opinion and Ms T hasnt provided evidence of the payment she made.
When a consumer employs their own expert to assist them in a claim, we would usually only 
expect the insurer to reimburse such costs, if the experts input made a material difference to 
the outcome of the claim. While Ms T has set out her understanding of what the engineers 
said to her, it appears that the comments were provided on a relatively generic basis of what 
might be causing the subsidence, what it would expect to see in relation to investigations 
and what type of repairs might be needed. I dont consider this changed the outcome of the 
claim and it may have actually caused Ms T to delay the progress of the claim. As such, I 
dont consider that NFU needs to make any payment in this regard.
Repairs
Given that the property has been stabilised, I am satisfied that any form of structural 
stabilisation, such as underpinning, is not necessary. As such, repairs are required to the 
cracks in the property and then it needs to be decorated. 
NFU has explained that it will be completing robust repairs in respect to the cracking where 
that is needed. This is likely to involve steel reinforcement being inserted into the mortar 
courses crossing the more significant cracks before they are repointed and made watertight. 
There will also internally be areas where steel mesh is attached to the interior of the wall to 
ensure the plaster repairs are stable and lasting. These types of repairs are quite typical in 
subsidence cases. In the absence of any form of expert opinion that says the proposed 
repairs are inadequate, I cant conclude that they are. 
NFU has also confirmed that if Ms T agrees to repairs starting, it will pay for her possessions 
in the affected rooms to be packed and stored off site. This is appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
Ms T has recently mentioned that at one point she had to have a carpenter ease the front 
door as she couldnt open or close it. Shes said that she had to arrange and pay for it to be 
done, because NFU wouldnt do it. However, there is evidence in the loss adjusters file that 
it had scheduled this work to be done, but Ms T cancelled it as it was no longer needed. So if 
Ms T did have work done on the front door herself, I dont think I can find that NFU made a 
mistake in this respect as it acted on her instructions. That said, if Ms T provides evidence of 
the work that was done and provides an invoice or receipt for the costs, NFU should 
consider whether it is liable for this cost. 
Ms T has been advised that the missing guttering at the rear of the extension is something 
that she needs to arrange to replace herself and as there is no evidence that this fell off 
because of subsidence movement, I cant see that it would be covered under the claim. In 
addition, the fact that there is a rainwater downpipe discharging directly onto the ground by 
the property, would be considered a maintenance matter and would again fall to Ms T to 
remedy, as NFU has told her.
The other area of damage that has been disputed is the uneven paving at the front and rear 
of the property. Ms T believes that it is uneven because there has been erosion of the 
ground under the slabs and due to the action of tree roots from the neighbours vegetation. 
NFU has said that the problems arent related to subsidence. For the paved areas to be considered under the claim, the damage to them would have had 
to have been as the result of subsidence movement and the cause of that subsidence would 
have to be the same as that which had affected the house. As I have detailed above, the 
leaking drains will not have caused erosion as Ms T believed they had, and the water 
discharged didnt contribute to the subsidence. So that would not appear to be the cause of 
the movement to the paving and even if it was, it wouldnt fall to be covered by the 
subsidence claim.
I also note that Ms T mentioned when explaining to the loss adjusters the history of her 
dealings with the right-hand neighbours that she had previously asked for vegetation to be 
cut back in the neighbours garden because the roots were causing problems with the 
paving. She also expressed her satisfaction and relief when the vegetation was cut back 
because due to this reason. 
This would indicate that the problem with the paving had been ongoing for some time before 
the property subsided. Furthermore, if the damage was caused by direct action of the roots, 
i.e. the growth of the roots physically moved the paving, that wouldnt be considered 
subsidence and its not something an insurance policy like Ms Ts would cover.
Compensation
I have carefully considered the matter of the compensation that NFU should pay in this case. 
As I have said above, there have been clear errors made and some of the delay in the claim 
progressing has been due to that. Equally, Ms T has also caused a significant amount of 
delay too. Overall, I am satisfied that the £1,250 NFU has paid is sufficient in the 
circumstances.
The present position
At present Ms T hasnt agreed to any repairs being done. This is because she has said she 
has no faith in what NFU has told her and doesnt believe the property is stable. I hope that 
the above explanations may have alleviated some of Ms Ts concerns.
NFU has given Ms T the option to provide evidence to support her position that its in the 
wrong in relation to the stability of the property and the repairs that are needed. NFU has 
confirmed it will reimburse the cost of any reports produced if they make a difference to the 
outcome of the complaint. Otherwise, NFU has asked that she either allow it to complete the 
repairs it has determined are needed or to accept a cash settlement and complete the 
repairs herself. 
Given the position of the claim, I dont think NFUs position is inappropriate. It has confirmed 
it is willing to complete the repairs and that is the preferable option for most consumers as it 
means that NFU will have responsibility for the repairs being done correctly and lasting. If 
Ms T was to choose the option of accepting a cash settlement, or if the situation doesnt 
improve and NFU decides a cash settlement is the only option, Ms T will be responsible for 
the repairs being done correctly and lasting.
Putting things right
In settlement of this complaint, NFU needs to pay Ms T £265 as the outstanding amount of 
the cash settlement for the replacement fence. If Ms T incurred VAT on the installation, she 
should provide NFU with evidence that it was paid and VAT on up to £1,365 should be paid. 
Interest* on these amounts should be paid from the date the settlement should reasonably 
have been paid. As NFU agreed to the cash settlement in the middle of November 2019, I 
consider that settlement should have been made shortly thereafter. So interest should be 
calculated from 1 December 2019 until the payment is made.In relation to the cost of easing her front door, if Ms T provides evidence of the works done 
and the amount paid, NFU should consider whether it is liable for that cost. If it concludes it 
is, it should pay interest* on the amount from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amount specified and from/to the 
dates stated. If NFU considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from any interest due to Ms T, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms T a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
NFU confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed, that while it was not 
responsible for providing a replacement fence, as it had agreed to do so, it had arranged the 
payment I had recommended in respect of the £265 payment shortfall. 
Ms T didnt accept my provisional decision. She responded in detail providing further copy 
correspondence and reiterating her opinions of the claim decisions and handling. She also 
provided significant comment on how NFUs processes and delegation of the investigation of 
the claim to loss adjusters. I wont provide the detail of Mrs Ts emails here, but I can assure 
her that I have considered everything she said and provided carefully.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T has indicated in her responses to the provisional decision that she thinks my 
understanding of the claim events has been coloured by NFUs and/or its loss adjusters 
accounts of the claim events. I can assure Ms T that I requested and read the entire claim 
file, including the discussions about the technical reports, the loss adjusters conclusions, the 
mitigation works and repairs. The background above reflects the contemporaneous 
information contained in the claim file and provided by Ms T and my conclusions have been 
based on that information. 
I have noted Ms Ts comments about NFUs processes, its use of loss adjusters and the 
problems she perceived this has cause in her claim. I would confirm that this service 
considers individual complaints. A financial business is entitled to decide what its internal 
processes are, and they are not something that we have the powers to interfere with as that 
is the role of the industry regulator.
Ms T has said in relation to NFUs position that she either needs to allow it to settle the claim 
or provide her own expert opinion, that it is NFUs responsibility to investigate her claim, not 
hers. I agree with Ms T that it is an insurers responsibility to investigate a claim, and NFU 
has done so in this case. The fact that Ms T doesnt agree with how it did so, and the 
conclusions it reached, doesnt mean that it hasnt investigated the claim adequately. 
In the situation where an insurer has had a claim investigated and reached its technical 
conclusions, if a policyholder disagrees, it is normal for the policyholder to be expected to 
provide evidence to support their differing opinion. That evidence needs to be in the form of 
persuasive documented expert opinion, supported by factual evidence, if it is to alter the 
outcome of the claim. That is the position this claim is at now. It is not unreasonable for NFU 
to give Ms T the choice of moving the claim on based on its conclusions or to provide 
documented expert evidence to support her opinions.
Ms T has effectively said that she doesnt believe anything NFU or its loss adjusters tell her 
in relation to her homes stability or the repairs that are needed. NFUs loss adjusters made the initial mistake of not assessing the damage to the extension, which caused delays and 
the general administration of the claim was lacking at times, I have seen nothing to indicate 
that once the investigations were done the conclusions that were reached were wrong. I also 
note that when NFU suggested further monitoring to reassure Ms T, she declined this. In the 
circumstances, I am not sure what NFU could do to remedy the situation and it may be in 
Ms Ts interest to commission her own expert to assess her property, taking into account the 
investigations and monitoring NFU has done, in order to reassure her and allow the claim to 
move on. If she does this, and her expert disagrees with NFUs conclusions, that opinion will 
need to be provided in writing from the expert. 
Ms T raised a new issue about the increase in premiums payable to the policy. Given the 
stage the complaint is at, I dont propose to comment on this matter here. If Ms T wants NFU 
to consider it as a new complaint, she should raise it with it directly.
As for the storm damage to contents, I note that Ms T has said that she was told the damage 
would be considered as part of the subsidence claim, as the roof was part of that claim. 
However, at the time she has said the storm happened, the roof damage hadnt been 
accepted as part of the subsidence claim  that didnt happen for another two weeks. So the 
situation isnt entirely clear. However, in light of that error, I can see that Ms T might not have 
pursued this claim. In light of this, again, if Ms T wants to pursue the contents claim, she 
should confirm that to NFU to enable it to set up the claim. 
Putting things right
Both parties have confirmed that NFU has already paid her the £265 outstanding amount of 
the cash settlement for the replacement fence, along with interest on that sum. 
If Ms T incurred VAT on the installation of the fence, she should provide NFU with evidence 
that it was paid and VAT on up to £1,365 should also be paid. 
Although I note that Ms T has said she didnt ask for reimbursement of the cost of easing her 
front door, if she wishes to do so now and provides evidence of the works done and the 
amount paid, NFU should consider whether it is liable for that cost. If it concludes it is, it 
should pay interest* on the amount from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amount specified and from/to the 
dates stated. 
If NFU considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
any interest due to Ms T, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Ms T a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited to settle the complaint by following the instructions set out 
in putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Derry BaxterOmbudsman