DRN-3254079
The complaint
Mr D complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua have irresponsibly lent to him.
Mr D is represented by a claims management company in bringing this complaint. But for
ease of reading, Ill refer to any submission and comments they have made as being made
by Mr D himself.
What happened
Mr D was accepted for an Aqua credit card in November 2019, with an initial credit limit of
£900. The credit limit was later increased to;
£1,900 on 9 March 2020
£2,650 on 10 August 2020
Mr D complained to Aqua that they didnt carry out necessary checks before granting him
credit, in line with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules. He said the credit was not
affordable. He wanted Aqua to remove the interest applied to the credit card, bringing it back
to the principle amount borrowed, refund the interest on repayments made, pay 8% interest
on this amount and remove any adverse credit data they had registered with credit reference
agencies.
Aqua did not uphold the complaint. They said that when accepting Mr Ds application, they
based their decision on information from credit reference agencies and from Mr D. They said
Mr D told them he was employed with an annual income of £33,000, additional household
income of £3,600 and unsecured debt of £9,700.
Data also showed Aqua that Mr D had two defaults totalling £1,900 which were registered 34
months prior to the application, adverse public records which were 29 months prior to the
application, no payday loans and no accounts in arrears. As Mr D had met their criteria then
his application was approved with a £900 credit limit.
Aqua said that prior to increasing Mr Ds credit limit, they had evaluated instances of him
exceeding his credit limit, making late payments or missed payments, the payments made,
the proportion of the credit he used, how he used the credit limit, internal and external
payment plans, payday loan history, arrears status of external accounts and overall external
credit available to Mr D and how much of this was used. Aqua said that each credit limit was
provided to him correctly and adequate checks were completed to ensure these were
affordable.
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. She said
greater consideration should have been given to the value of the defaults and CCJs
in Mr Ds name. So she didnt think the checks Aqua completed at the time the account was
opened or when the credit limit was increased were sufficient enough.
She said Aqua should refund all interest and charges which had been charged since the
opening of his account. She also said that if this showed hes paid too much, Aqua should
refund him any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest. But if there was still an
outstanding balance after these adjustments have been made then Mr D should still pay this
back. And Aqua should work with him to maintain a suitable repayment plan for this. Our
investigator also thought that Aqua should remove any adverse information that may have
been recorded on Mr Ds credit file.
Aqua asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said Mr D had often made
more than the minimum repayment, they were aware of the adverse credit data Mr D had but
this happened a long time before his application was accepted. Aqua also said that their
data shows that prior to the credit limit increases, there was no evidence that Mr D was on
any repayment plans, showing any arrears or showing any signs of financial difficulty or
affordability problems with other lenders.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Mr D, Aqua needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to; the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the
consumer's personal circumstances.
Initial credit limit
Ive looked at what checks Aqua said they did prior to accepting Mr Ds application. They
said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that Mr D
had gave them, such as being employed, earnings of £33,000 and they looked at the
information on his credit file. Aqua said that Mr Ds credit file showed he had external
unsecured outstanding debt of £9,700.
But thats not all the credit file showed. It showed that Mr D had defaulted in the past and
had a public record. The most recent default was 34 months ago and the public record was
29 months ago. So Aqua would have been aware that Mr D had previously not maintained
his agreements. But the data also showed he had no accounts in arrears, no repayment
plans and that the adverse credit data was at least 29 months old.
So Ive considered if the checks that Aqua carried out were proportionate to the level of
credit that Mr D was given. Based on the data showing that Mr D had no accounts in arrears,
his last default was nearly three years ago, his last public record was over two years ago
and given the low initial credit limit in relation to his earnings, Im persuaded that the checks
Aqua carried out here were proportionate.
It may help to explain here that, while information like defaults and CCJs on someones
credit file may often mean theyre not granted further credit  they dont automatically mean
that a lender wont offer borrowing. Here, Aqua considered the information that Mr D had on
his credit history and still made a decision to lend which, in the circumstances, I think was
reasonable.
Credit limit increases
Ive looked at the information that Aqua had available to them when they increased Mr Dscredit limit. Firstly from £900 to £1,900 and then to £2,650. The increases happened within a
short period of time, March 2020-August 2020. So Mr Ds credit limit nearly trebled within a
six month period.
Looking at the first credit increase, the credit limit more than doubled. Just before Mr D had
his credit limit increased, he had been charged a late fee as he hadnt met his February
2020 payment on time. This may suggest that Mr D may not be able to maintain a higher
commitment if he couldnt pay his normal commitment on time.
This isnt all that Aquas information showed. Their data showed that Mr Ds total credit card
balances had increased to over £12,500 and he had an active payday loan. I think these
factors should have prompted some further questions or checks from Aqua.
Im persuaded that as a proportionate check, based on the issues which Ive previously
mentioned that this is something Aqua should have done to get a better understanding of
how Mr D was managing his accounts around the time of the credit limit increases and
whether the payday loan was for a one off large purchase which he didnt have the savings
to make the purchase, or whether this was an indication that his income wasnt enough to
meet his outgoings at the time of the credit limit increases.
So on the face of it, it does look like Aqua shouldve looked more closely into this. But the
problem for me here is that my role is impartial. That means I have to be fair to both sides
and although Im satisfied that Aqua shouldve done more checks here  I cant say whether
that wouldve revealed further information which means they wouldnt have lent. Weve
asked Mr D and his representative for further information here on a number of occasions, but
weve never received a reply from Mr D. That means that it wouldnt be fair to me to say that
Aqua shouldnt have lent here, because I dont know what further checks would reveal. So, it
follows that I cant ask Aqua to do anything further here.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Aqua accepted the provisional decision. Mr D did not respond to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman