DRN-3649691
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank (SWB)
gave them the wrong redemption figure for their mortgage. They corrected this, but SWB still
took the wrong amount. They said this was negligent fraud, and they wanted compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D wanted to redeem their mortgage with SWB, in order to remortgage
elsewhere. They said that when they received a redemption figure from their solicitors
(assigned by their new lender) there was no breakdown, so they contacted SWB to query it.
They discovered that SWB had calculated the early repayment charge (ERC) wrongly, and
had greatly overestimated what they owed. Mr and Mrs D were reassured by SWB that this
mistake would be corrected, but they said it wasnt, and the incorrect amount was taken.
They said they were overcharged by well over £5,000.
Mr and Mrs D said SWB had repaid what was overcharged, but had paid only £100 in
compensation for what had gone wrong. They said this didnt reflect the magnitude of the
mistake SWB had made, and it didnt cover the time Mr D spent putting this right. They said
theyd donated this to charity.
Mr and Mrs D also wanted to complain about how SWB handled the complaint they made.
Mr and Mrs D said they had lost over £1,000 in Mr Ds income. And theyd paid an ERC of
almost £3,000, which they referred to as profit for SWB. So they said that SWB should pay
about half of this to them as compensation.
SWB accepted it had made a mistake over the ERC payable on part of Mr and Mrs Ds
mortgage. It said this was human error, and it was sorry about this. It wanted to reassure
them that this was never an attempt to defraud them. It paid them £100. But SWB disputed 
that it had failed to handle Mr and Mrs Ds complaint properly. SWB felt its compensation 
payment was fair, and it wouldnt refund their ERC.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said our service couldnt
look into the complaint handling issues Mr and Mrs D had raised. We could look at SWBs 
actions when the mortgage was redeemed, and if SWB then did enough to put things right.
Both sides agreed that a mistake was made, and that Mr D had been in touch to correct this
before the mortgage was redeemed, but SWB still used an incorrect redemption figure. Our
investigator said he could see that SWB did put a note on Mr and Mrs Ds account showing
the right ERC, but that wasnt actioned. Our investigator thought this was human error.
Once Mr D told SWB about this, it made the refund the same day. So our investigator
thought SWB sorted this out in a reasonable time, to minimise the impact on Mr and Mrs D.
Our investigator understood Mr D had spent a lot of time on this issue, but he said our
service doesnt assess compensation just on the basis of someones hourly rate. Hed
considered the inconvenience to Mr and Mrs D, and thought SWBs payment was fair.
Mr D replied on behalf of himself and Mrs D, to say they were disappointed. They thought
one mistake was human error, but making the same mistake twice was negligent. They felt
that big corporations can do as they please with little or no threat of any meaningful
punishment. And they said that as they had paid several thousand pounds in ERCs, they
didnt think they should be fobbed off with £100.
Mr and Mrs D wanted their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed
to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I explained in my provisional decision why I did propose to uphold. This is what I said then: 
I understand that Mr and Mrs D have been very unhappy with how their complaint was 
handled. They said SWB didnt try to get in touch to discuss the complaint before issuing 
a response, and it paid £100 in compensation without their agreement. They felt this 
should have been offered, rather than imposed. I know Mr and Mrs D have strong 
feelings about this, but unfortunately, I agree with our investigator that these points lie 
outside of our services jurisdiction. Our investigator explained to Mr and Mrs D that 
unfortunately were not able to look at this, and I understand they no longer pursue this 
point. Ive included my own view on this, solely for the avoidance of any doubt.
Both sides have accepted that things went wrong here. But there isnt agreement on 
why this happened. SWB has described this as human error, but Mr D says that SWB 
fraudulently obtained money from him, and if he hadnt double checked, then the money 
would have been retained.
Mr D has suggested that SWB should be punished for this. But our service isnt a 
regulator, and we dont fine or punish businesses. We look at whats happened in an 
individual case, and seek to provide a fair and reasonable outcome. So thats what Ive 
tried to do here.
It is clear SWB made a mistake. And although Mr D pointed out that mistake to SWB, it 
was repeated. Mr D has set out his view, that only his actions stopped him from having 
to pay a greatly over-inflated ERC. It does look like the problem was only identified by 
Mr D, so hes right in fact, but Im not clear that this is how things ought to have worked.
When someone redeems a mortgage and moves to a new lender, a solicitor usually 
completes the formalities. And here Mr D has told us that he also rang the solicitors who 
were acting for him (assigned by his new mortgage company) and told that firm the 
redemption figure SWB had provided was wrong. But this still appears to be the figure 
that this firm then approved and paid, without further reference to Mr and Mrs D.
I dont think this takes away from the mistakes made, twice, by SWB. But I do think it 
means that SWB isnt solely and entirely responsible for what went wrong here.
Mr and Mrs D said they should be paid much more compensation. They have compared 
the compensation that SWB has paid them to the amount of the ERC that they were 
charged, of £3,000. So they say that refunding half of this would still leave SWB with a 
significant profit. But an ERC isnt simply profit. An ERC is a standard part of a fixed 
interest rate on a mortgage, and it allows lenders to ensure that they will still recover the 
costs of lending, if someone redeems a mortgage before that fixed interest rate period 
ends. Financial services rules mean that the ERC isnt just a windfall for lenders. It has to be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs incurred to the lender as a result of 
borrowers repaying their mortgages back early.
I can see that Mr and Mrs D were properly notified of the ERCs when they took out the 
fixed rate lending. And, for the reasons above, I dont think that SWB has to repay the 
ERC which was charged in this case. For the same reasons, I dont think that 
compensation in this case should be based on the ERC that Mr and Mrs D have paid. I 
also agree with our investigator, that its not appropriate to work out compensation solely 
on the basis of the hourly rate that Mr D himself charges.
But I do think that SWB let Mr and Mrs D down, and I think that it should pay a little 
more compensation than it has already paid. I understand this is likely to fall far short of 
what Mr and Mrs D would like, but I think that a total payment of £250 in this complaint 
would provide a fair and reasonable outcome in this case. And, as SWB has already 
paid £100 to Mr and Mrs D, that means my award would require it to pay £150 now. 
Thats what I currently propose to award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides replied to my provisional decision. SWB said that it was happy to pay the 
additional compensation Id suggested. And Mr and Mrs D said that they had nothing further 
to add, other than that they appreciated my recognising the failure of SWB in this instance.
Neither side has offered any further argument or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision, and I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank must pay Mr and 
Mrs D £150 in compensation, in addition to the £100 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman