DRN-3267452
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont reimburse him everything he lost 
when he fell victim to an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr W holds an account with NatWest. In 2020, he was looking to invest with the intention of 
gaining an additional income. He found a website offering an electronic trading facility. Mr W 
says he read reviews, both good and bad, and the website looked to be legitimate.
Mr W submitted his details and received a call back. The caller told Mr W that now was the 
best time to make an investment in forex (foreign exchange trading) and that he could make 
very good returns using their investment platform. 
Mr W initially made a payment using his credit card for £208.70 (issued by a bank other than 
NatWest). He says this smaller payment was to see how it went. 
Mr W says the trader then called him daily and helped him to choose investments using 
remote access to his computer. He was shown web pages that appeared to indicate he was 
making substantial percentage returns very quickly. The trader also sent him a contract 
account number and a trader number. All in all, he explains this started to reassure him.
A few weeks later, Mr W was persuaded to make a larger investment. He sent a payment of 
£4,400 by Faster Payments from his NatWest account. The payment was sent to a wallet 
held with a cryptocurrency exchange, set up in Mr Ws name. The trader helped Mr W in 
setting this up, via remote access to Mr Ws computer.
The supposed investments were made using transfers out of the newly created wallet 
account, apparently in the form of cryptocurrency.
The trader told Mr W that if he paid in more, they would look after him and hed get even 
better returns. Between 9 March and 11 March 2020, Mr W sent three further Faster 
Payments transfers totaling £33,900. At this point hed therefore invested a total of 
£38,508.70. 
Mr W says trading appeared to be going well until around ten days later when his account 
showed a crash in value over the weekend. Mr W says he didnt think this should have 
happened and that it must be negligence on the traders part. 
He was contacted on the Monday and the trader told him if he paid an insurance fee of 
£11,400, he could resurrect his account and carry on trading. Mr W did so. He says 
everything appeared to be going well again until the trader made some trades Mr W 
considered reckless and they had a falling out.
At this point Mr W was contacted by someone claiming to be a colleague of the original 
trader. He said the trader had been dismissed for reckless trading. Mr W was told he could 
either carry on trading or withdraw his funds. Mr W asked to withdraw his money. 
He was told his balance was around $127,000, so apparently his returns were around 100% 
within a matter of weeks. But to access this money he was told hed need to pay more first. 
Again, this seems to have been described as an insurance fee. He sent three further 
payments of £10,014, £9,000, and £1,000 to a wallet with a different cryptocurrency 
exchange. This new wallet had again been set up in Mr Ws name using remote access to 
his computer.
During the course of making these three later payments, NatWest temporarily blocked his 
account, and Mr W had to call to arrange to unfreeze it. It was explained to him the payment 
had been stopped by the fraud team, and they needed to check that it wasnt fraud. 
Mr W said that if his bank had concerns about it, hed want to check everything out before he 
would say the payment should go ahead. It then appears Mr W resubmitted the payment 
requests the following day, and these were successfully transferred.
However, Mr W did not receive the promised withdrawn funds into his new wallet. He was 
instead contacted by another individual saying he needed to pay them several bitcoins to get 
his funds back. Mr W at this point began to realise it was unlikely to be genuine and didnt 
send any further payments.
NatWest was unable to recover any money from the receiving accounts. It accepted a share 
of responsibility for the loss, accepting it could have done more to protect Mr W when he 
was making the payments. However, it thought Mr W hadnt carried out reasonable checks 
before sending his money, so he should share liability. It refunded Mr W £34,857, equivalent 
to half the total amount hed lost from his NatWest account.
Mr W didnt accept this and referred his complaint to this service for an impartial review. He 
said he thought he was simply investing harmlessly in the stock market via what appeared to 
be a reputable company. He thought NatWest hadnt done enough to protect him.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He thought NatWest had offered a fair settlement. 
The investigator explained that because Mr W was transferring money from his NatWest 
account to accounts held in his own name, the APP scam reimbursement code (the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model code or CRM Code) wouldnt apply. But further, he 
thought Mr W hadnt taken sufficient care in making the payments and hadnt taken heed of 
the warning signs that this might not have been legitimate. So the investigator thought it was 
fair that Mr W should share some of the blame. He thought NatWests offer was fair.
Mr W didnt accept this. He said some other victims of the same investment scam had 
received a full refund from their banks. Because Mr W didnt accept our investigators view, 
the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the investigator.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mr W. I can understand entirely why he feels so strongly that his money should be returned to him, and why he doesnt accept that 
NatWest isnt responsible to refund him fully here.
Its important to clearly acknowledge that Mr W has been the victim of a crime here. Hes 
explained about the significant impact this has had on him. Mr W was cruelly deceived by a 
scam that lead him to believe he was investing his money and making large profits. Hes 
been left out of pocket by a significant sum as a result of this scam.
However, the main cause of these losses was the scammer who deceived Mr W.  
For me to say NatWest is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank 
could and should have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its 
obligations in some other way. Id also need to find that Mr W had taken a reasonable level 
of care prior to making the payments that led to the losses.
A voluntary code exists to provide additional protection against APP scams (the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code  CRM Code). NatWest is a signatory to this code. But it only 
applies to payments made directly to another person  payments made to a customers own 
accounts arent covered by the CRM Code. That means the CRM Code provisions arent 
relevant to Mr Ws complaint  his payment instructions were to send money from NatWest 
to accounts held in his own name at the cryptocurrency exchanges.
However, while I therefore find the CRM Code does not apply here, that Code is not the full 
extent of the relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this.
NatWest accepts it was at fault, and could have taken further steps to protect Mr W. As 
NatWest accepts a share of liability, I do not need to consider that point further in this 
decision. The question that I need to decide is whether Mr W should fairly be expected to 
share some responsibility for what happened.
I have taken into account everything Mr W has submitted. It seems he had some doubts 
from the outset, explaining he had seen positive and negative reviews of the investment he 
found. After hed invested a relatively small sum, the good returns he believed had been 
achieved reassured him and persuaded him to invest more.
But even when the investment had apparently gone wrong and he was told he had to pay 
more money to continue trading (and when he says he thought the trader had been 
negligent) I cant see anything to suggest Mr W took any steps to validate the company he 
was dealing with. He says he thought the trader he was speaking to was based in London, 
but a quick search would have revealed this was not a firm regulated to trade in the UK. 
Mr W says he thought he was investing in stocks and shares or possibly foreign exchange 
trading, but was given no plausible explanation given for the significant returns being 
achieved  on the face of it, these seem too good to be true, as they turned out to be.
I have also to consider that when NatWest spoke to him and expressed concerns that this 
could be fraudulent, Mr W acknowledged the banks concerns but still went ahead and sent 
further payments.
Unfortunately, I think the attraction of the significant returns he was being shown led Mr W to 
ignore the apparent risks. I dont consider that Mr W took reasonable steps to protect 
himself, even when there were significant warning signs or when his bank alerted him to its 
concerns. It follows that I think it is fair and reasonable that the responsibility is split equally 
here between Mr W and NatWest.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont require NatWest to reimburse Mr W by more than the 50% figure it has already refunded.
In saying this, I want to emphasise again that I am very sorry to hear about what happened 
to Mr W and I am sorry he has lost out. He was the victim of a crime and a cruel scam that 
was carefully designed to defraud him of his money. I appreciate that the remaining money 
hes lost here remains a very significant sum. But in all of the circumstances, I cant fairly say 
NatWest should be held fully liable for what happened  I think it is only fair that Mr W also 
shares a portion of the liability. 
It is my finding that the refund NatWest has already made to Mr W is a fair settlement in all 
of the circumstances. I do not require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint National Westminster Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman