DRN-3614508
The complaint
Mr R complains about Santander UK Plc.
He says that Santander didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of a 
scam  and that Santander should refund him the money he has lost as a result of the scam.
 
What happened
Mr R was contacted by G by telephone. G explained that it was a very successful 
cryptocurrency trading firm.
G persuaded Mr R to open an account with R  an electronic money institution (EMI)  and 
to transfer funds to this account where it would later be used to purchase crypto, and lost to 
Mr R.
Mr R has also raised a separate complaint about R.
G persuaded Mr R to transfer his funds to his account with R. Mr R says that he only 
consented to the first payment of £15,000. He says that the further three transactions 
totalling £55,000, were not authorised by him.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. Mr R 
remained unhappy with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know that this will be 
disappointing for Mr R, so Ill explain why.
Was Mr R the victim of a scam?
It isnt in dispute here that Mr R was the victim of a scam. He was contacted out of the blue 
by G offering investment in crypto, persuaded to download Anydesk software onto his PC, 
and to transfer money to a new account with R, before using these funds to purchase 
Crypto. He was never able to access any funds after the transfer to Crypto had been 
completed, and later found poor reviews about G indicating that it was a scam.
Did Mr R authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr R isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
Mr R says that he only authorised the first payment of £15,000  and that he didnt authorise 
the next three payments totalling £55,000. He says that no one had access to his online 
banking details but believes that G maintained remote access to his PC and sent the further 
funds without his knowledge.
However, while I understand Mr R had been tricked into instructing Santander to make the 
payments and never intended the payments to go to the scammers, I think that he did 
authorise them. Ill explain why.
Mr R initially set up his account with R and tested that it worked with a small transfer of £20 
which he then returned to his Santander account. He then spoke with Santander when he 
made the first payment of £15,000.
I have also been presented with information from R, which show that Mr R used his trusted 
mobile phone to send the payments on to the crypto exchange  not his PC where he had 
downloaded Anydesk. He has confirmed that he didnt allow access to his mobile phone to 
the scammers. So, he would have seen the further payments in his account with R before 
completing these payments. If Mr R didnt authorise these payments when they left his 
Santander account, I think that he would have been surprised to see the funds in his account 
and contacted Santander at this point  but Mr R didnt do so. 
I can also see that Mr R accessed his online banking to make a payment a few days after 
the last transfer had left his account, so he would likely have seen the payments he says he 
didnt authorise has already left the account at this point  but he didnt complain to 
Santander until some months after the transactions had been made. 
I should also say that The PSRs state that consent is given when a customer uses the steps 
agreed for making a transaction  and its also possible to provide consent for someone to 
act on your behalf  so even if Mr R didnt actually key the transactions into his Santander 
online banking himself, it is possible he allowed access to his online banking through 
Anydesk to the scammers.
Recovery of Mr Rs payments
After Mr R made the payments, I wouldnt expect Santander to do anything further until it 
was notified of the scam.
I understand that Mr R feels his payments in relation to the scam should be refunded in 
accordance with the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. But it only applies 
when domestic payments (as the result of a scam) are sent to another person. Here Mr R 
sent payments to an account held in his own name. And the scam occurred when he moved 
his purchased crypto from that account to the scammer. Im satisfied the CRM Code 
wouldnt apply in this scenario.
Should Santander have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Santander reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Mr R made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
As Ive explained above, Im satisfied Mr R authorised the scam payments in question here  
so he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Santander should have taken proactive 
steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This leads me to consider the payments that Mr R made.
Mr R sent an initial payment to his account with R of £20  he has explained that this was to 
test out the account, and check that it worked.
Santander blocked this payment, although it was for a small amount. And spoke with Mr R 
about the payment he was making. It has provided a copy of this call.
In this, I can see that Santander asked him about the payment, and what it was in relation to. 
It checked with him if he had been approached by anyone, or if he had received any cold 
calls, been directed to download any software onto his computer, or told to open the account 
with R by anyone. Mr R confirmed that he had opened his account with R off his own back, 
without any outside influence, and that he was testing out his new account. He also said that 
he hoped it would be smoother next time as he intended to move more money. But Mr R 
wasnt truthful with Santander. Had Mr R provided accurate information to Santander at this 
point, and divulged important information such as the cold call he had received, that he had 
downloaded Anydesk on the instruction of G, and that ultimately he intended the funds to be 
paid from R to purchase crypto, this would have triggered Santander into providing a 
meaningful warning to Mr R, which could have prevented the loss. And as Santander wasnt 
given this information, Im satisfied it didnt miss an opportunity to uncover the scam.
Santander has also provided a copy of the call it had with Mr R when he made the first 
payment of £15,000. While he wasnt questioned about the possibility of a scam at this point, 
he confirmed that the payment was going to an account in his own name  which is a normal 
transaction many people make regularly, and as Mr R hadnt been forthcoming with relevant 
information in his earlier conversation with Santander, I am not persuaded that he would 
have provided any more information at this time even if Santander had questioned him 
further.
Was Mr R vulnerable?
Mr R is represented in his complaint by a third party, who have said that Mr R was 
vulnerable due to his age and lack of technical knowledge and computer literacy. They say 
that Mr R had only just begun to use online banking, which he had apparently been forced to 
do by Santander. But age doesnt automatically mean that someone is vulnerable or incapable of managing their own financial affairs. And as far as I am aware, Santander 
doesnt force people to use online banking  while there may be limited opportunity to 
access branches these days, telephone banking can also be utilised, and Mr R appears to 
have been using both a mobile app and his PC to conduct other transfers both before and 
after the scam took place.
I also havent seen anything in the call recordings to suggest that Santander should have 
considered Mr R as a vulnerable individual through his interactions with it.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr R now finds himself in. He has been 
the victim of a cruel scam and has lost a significant amount of money as a result of this. 
However, the loss suffered was ultimately caused by the scammers themselves, not 
Santander. And I cant ask Santander to refund the money lost when I dont think that it has 
done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman