DRN-1567819
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc didn't comply with the Direct Debit Guarantee.
What happened
Mr A says he changed energy supplier in December 2018 from a company I will call "O". He 
says that company ought to have collected a payment of £6.63 but collected a payment by 
direct debit of £140.14. Mr A says he asked Santander for a refund under the Direct Debit 
Guarantee (DDG) which it agreed to do, before taking the money from his account when O 
gave it evidence that it was entitled to the money.
Mr A says Santander has not complied with the DDG and its actions have caused him 
distress and inconvenience. He would like Santander to change its policies, apologise to him 
and pay him £50 compensation.
Santander says it has not made a mistake and refunded the money whilst it obtained further 
evidence. It says O provided a letter dated 7 December 2018 in which it confirmed it would 
take the money from Mr A's account by direct debit on 6 January 2019 for £140.14. 
Santander says it then took the money out of Mr A's account.
Mr A brought his complaint to is but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
explained that we are not Santander's regulator and so couldn't tell it to change its policies or 
procedures. The investigator thought Mr A hadn't cancelled his direct debit to O and this was 
a contractual dispute between them, and so not covered by the DDG. And that Santander 
hadn't made a mistake by debiting the money when O provided the letter.
Mr A doesn't accept that view and has raised a number of questions he would like answers 
to. In summary he says Santander has helped O and that there wasn't a contractual dispute 
between him and O. But O took money when he was no longer a customer and that amounts 
to fraud. Mr A says the investigator has misinterpreted the DDG about the definition of 
"organisation" and that his money should not have been given to O without his permission.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a similar overall view as the investigator and for similar 
reasons. I realise Mr A will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he 
feels about what has happened. I make clear to him that we are not the regulator of 
Santander, and so we can't punish a business or ask it to change the way in which it 
operates. I should also explain that its not our role to answer Mr A's questions but to decide, 
as in this case, if Santander has made a mistake or acted unfairly.
The DDG provides protection if there is an error in payment but can't be used to address a 
contractual dispute. It says if an error is made by the organisation then a customer is entitled to a full refund. And also says that if a refund is received that a customer is not entitled to, 
then it must repay it when asked to do so by the organisation. In this case the organisation is 
O.
There is no dispute that a direct debit was set up by Mr A to pay O and that direct debit was 
still in place in December 2018 into January 2019. I can see that O wrote to Mr A on 7 
December 2018 and told him it would take a payment out of his account on 6 January 2019 
for £140.14 which it did. Mr A hasn't told us why he didn't cancel the direct debit to O or if he 
challenged the amount of that payment when he received the letter.
There is also no dispute that Mr A says that amount was incorrect, and he has told us he 
considers O's actions fraudulent. As a result, Mr A asked Santander to intervene which I'm 
satisfied it did. I can see that Santander fairly refunded Mr A the money whilst it carried out 
appropriate enquiries. I'm satisfied that having looked at the e-mail exchange between the 
parties Santander told Mr A that-
"Whilst a refund can be provided under the terms of the Direct Debit Guarantee if an error 
has been made, you may be required to pay back the amount refunded if it is later found that 
an error has not occurred. In this situation the organisation that collected the Direct Debit is 
likely to seek payment from you, which may include legal action".
I'm satisfied that Santander told Mr A that he may have to pay the money back if an error 
didn't take place and explained that it may be O that seeks that payment. In this case I'm 
satisfied that Santander hasn't simply taken it upon itself to pay the money to O. But has 
acted in line with the DDG in circumstances where it had refunded the money and where O 
provided evidence that it was entitled to take the money by an agreed direct debit. If there 
was insufficient money in the account then I think it likely O would have asked Mr A for the 
money itself.
I don't think this situation is that same as a refund that an individual was not entitled to that 
must be paid back when an organisation asks for it back. I'm satisfied that refers to a 
mistaken refund for example and is not the same as what has taken place here. For the 
reasons I have explained I find this was a direct debit that Santander refunded whilst it 
investigated the circumstances of the payment . And fairly concluded O had provided 
evidence it was entitled to take the payment.
Mr A has said O's actions were fraudulent and says it wasn't entitled to take the amount it 
did. I'm satisfied in those circumstances that Mr A is describing a dispute between him and 
O. And I have explained that the purpose of the DDG is not to address a contractual dispute.
Overall I'm satisfied that Santander hasn't acted unfairly or made a mistake, and so I can't 
ask it to pay the compensation Mr A would like. I'm also satisfied that Mr A did authorise the 
payment to O by setting up the direct debit in the first place and in those circumstances 
Santander was following the instructions he gave it when it was set up.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman