DRN-2881779
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that Paragon Bank Plc (Paragon) asked her why she was changing the 
power of attorney (POA) on her mothers account (Mrs D). She considers this to be an 
invasion of Mrs Ds privacy. 
What happened
In April 2020 Mrs T called Paragon to apply for the relevant forms to be able to change the 
POA on Mrs Ds account. During this call, Mrs T was asked why the POA needed to change. 
Mrs T is unhappy that she was asked this question, she says its none of Paragons business 
and isnt necessary in order to change the POA on Mrs Ds account. She asked Paragon to 
apologise and offer her mother compensation for what she said was an intrusion of her 
privacy. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but she didnt agree with Mrs T that Paragon had 
acted inappropriately. She explained that it was a reasonable question for Paragon to ask so 
that they could ensure the correct process was followed when changing the POA on Mrs Ds 
account. Because of this, she said no error had been made and didnt award compensation. 
Mrs T disagreed with our investigator, she said;
1) Asking to change a POA is a generic question and there is no requirement for the 
business to ask who the POA is or which account the change will relate to
2) POA's are not registered over the phone, they must be requested by the business 
3) There is nothing which forces the donor to disclose the reason for their selection of 
POA
4) The POA document would inform the business of the information they were entitled 
to 
5) No other party who requires POA's ask why a donor is changing
As our investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When complaining to our service, Mrs T said she was distressed by Paragons attempt to 
infringe her mothers privacy and she would like an apology and compensation for this and 
the time she has had to spend addressing the matter. As our investigator has explained, Im 
unable to award compensation to Mrs T as she isnt an eligible complainant. This is because 
the accounts were in Mrs Ds sole name and Mrs T was acting as her representative. So in 
reaching my decision, Ive only been able to consider any distress Mrs D may have been 
caused as a result of the call in April 2020. 
Ive listened to the call Mrs T had with Paragon in April 2020 and Ive thought carefully about 
the question she was asked about changing the POA on her mothers account. 
At the start of the call Mrs T made it clear that she needed to change the existing POA on 
Mrs Ds account. Mrs T was put on hold for a few minutes whilst the adviser checked the 
account details.
When the adviser resumed the call, she said, if I can just ask, why is it that were needing to 
change the power of attorney?. 
Mrs T replied, because its a different power of attorney now [] I cant really see that its 
any of your business quite frankly.
The adviser then explained that Paragon would need approval from the existing POA to 
make changes to the account. Mrs T said that was alright and if she needed to fill out a form 
to just send to her.  
When Mrs T explained that the attorney had changed, the adviser was able to proceed with 
the call and take the information she needed from Mrs T so she could send her the relevant 
forms. So its for me to decide if that question was necessary and if by asking it, Mrs D has 
been caused distress and inconvenience. 
Paragon has explained that its part of its standard process to ask customers why changes 
are being made to an account. This is to ensure that the correct advice is given.  For 
example, if the existing POA had passed away or another POA was being added to the 
account alongside the existing POA, the process would be different for each.
I understand why Mrs T interpreted the question as she did, and I agree that the specific 
reason why the attorney was changing isnt something that her or Mrs D would need to 
disclose to Paragon in order to change the POA.  I also understand that Mrs Ds reasons for 
selecting or changing a POA is personal and private. 
But from listening to the call, I dont think thats what Paragon were asking here. Im satisfied 
the adviser only asked why Paragon needed to change the POA, and not why the POA itself 
had been changed. I think this question is reasonable to enable Paragon to correctly advise 
Mrs T of the relevant next steps. 
I also dont think this question was asked with the intention of obtaining information that was 
not necessary to help Mrs T and Mrs D. It might have been helpful for the adviser to have 
given more context before asking why the POA needed to change. But I cant agree that it 
breached Mrs Ds privacy and so it follows that I cant agree Mrs D was caused distress. I 
also have to keep in mind that it wasnt Mrs D on the call, it was Mrs T and even if Mrs T told 
Mrs D about what happened, I think its likely the distress would have been minimal.
Mrs T was kept on hold for approximately five minutes during the duration of this 16 minute 
call. I understand she was eager to have the forms sent to her, and it was inconvenient 
having to discuss this over the telephone. 
During the call Mrs T also disclosed that she has a brain injury and gets anxious when she is 
wound up. I understand the call was distressing, but I dont think this was done intentionally 
by the adviser. Paragon has explained that the adviser needed to check the process to 
remove a POA and add a new one  which I dont think is unreasonable. When the adviser 
resumed the call, she was able to progress things quickly for Mrs T, despite her becoming 
agitated and the relevant forms were sent two days later. I dont agree that Paragon has breached Mrs Ds privacy in asking the question that it did. 
Because of this, I agree with our investigator that compensation is not appropriate, and I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Ombudsman