DRN-2512055
The complaint
Mr W complains that the hire purchase agreement financed by Black Horse Limited and the 
static caravan which he acquired through it were misrepresented. He wants to receive 
compensation.
What happened
Mr W tells us that in 2016 he acquired a static caravan through a business Ill refer to as 
PH. The intention of this acquisition was for Mr W and his wife to reside permanently on the 
holiday park where the caravan was situated apart from two weeks each year when the park 
closed. In April 2018 he says he upgraded to a new home. Subsequently Mr W explains that 
having watched a TV programme he discovered that it was not permissible for him to use the 
static home as his main residence. He says that had he known this he wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the deal. He also states that the price of the caravan was misrepresented.
Black Horse told us that Mr W had signed the documents relating to the acquisition of the 
caravan and the licence agreement for occupation of the holiday park. And that these had 
both made clear that the caravan could not be used as a permanent residence. It didnt 
accept there had been any misrepresentation.
Two of our investigators have issued views. And both recommend that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. In the most recent view our investigator said that the signed 
agreements made clear the caravan can be used only as a holiday home not as a main 
residence.
Mr W didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that things havent worked out as Mr W intended. And I understand his concern at 
the situation he faced. Which from his point of view appeared to amount to a threat of 
eviction and /or sizeable financial loss.
Recently Mr W has advised us that the agreement was voluntarily terminated (VT) in 
November 2020. This allows a consumer to return goods and end a hire purchase 
agreement when 50% of the total cost of the agreement has been repaid. He said the 
caravan hadnt been used since May 2019.
Mr Ws complaint is that he was misled into believing he could use the caravan as his main 
or only residence. And that if hed known this wasnt permitted, he wouldnt have entered the 
agreement to acquire the goods.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA); and the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations of 2008 (CPUTR).
The CCA states that the provider of finance is liable for misrepresentations made by the 
dealer or credit broker relating to the goods or the finance agreement. Here, PH acted as 
both dealer and credit broker  so Black Horse is potentially liable if PH made any 
misrepresentations. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a 
consumer to enter an agreement and incur a loss as result.
The CPUTR requires the consumer to be given enough information which the average 
consumer would require in order to make an informed decision as to whether to proceed 
and acquire the goods.
Theres a clear dispute as to the exact nature of the information provided to Mr W. And he 
alleges the verbal statements made by PH representatives didnt match the paperwork.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ill deal briefly with a query raised by Mr W as to whether there might have been a breach of 
the Fraud Act in relation to the original price of the caravan. I wont go into specific details as 
its enough for me to say that its not my role to directly investigate allegations of fraud. Ive 
seen nothing that persuades me that the hire purchase agreement didnt reflect the price Mr 
W paid for the goods and / or services for which he contracted.
Although Im principally looking at the 2018 finance agreement the background goes back to 
2016. And its probable that what Mr W was told in 2016 had an impact on the negotiations 
in 2018.  Obviously, I wasnt present at any of the pre-contract negotiations in either year. 
And in the absence of sound recordings, Ive to look to what other information there is to 
decide what probably happened. 
Ive seen various signed documents including the 2018 finance agreement together with the 
attached Holiday Home Purchase Confirmation. Also the document checklist.
As an initial point, Im satisfied that if there were any material changes in the terms and 
conditions of the agreement in 2018 compared to 2016, then it would be necessary for Mr W 
to be told of these. I havent seen any paperwork for the 2016 deal but for the purposes of 
this complaint I will infer the prohibition on using the caravan as a main residence was also 
included in that.
I approach the circumstances of the 2018 deal on the basis that Mr W believed the nature of 
the transaction simply allowed him to use his new caravan home in the same way as the 
previous one.And from what I can see theres every likelihood that he would have continued to do so had 
he not become aware of a TV programme which seemingly raised alarm bells. In brief it 
seems an allegation was made by the programme makers that PH  at a nearby holiday 
site  was selling homes on the basis that they could be used as a main or permanent 
residence.  I understand that PH denied the allegation and said it would take enforcement 
action against anyone found breaching the relevant terms.
Static caravans on most holiday park sites arent usually considered to be dwellings for 
council tax purposes as they are not meant to be main residences. So anything in the nature 
of the occupation that might change that status is of importance. And is presumably one 
reason for fears about enforcement.
Mr W says he approached the manager of his site about his concerns and says he was 
advised that provided he was able to supply the right paperwork each year (which included 
details of another residential address elsewhere) he could live at the park full time.
Without knowing all the precise terminology used during the various conversations its not 
possible to be sure exactly what was said. And experience shows that parties to the same 
conversation often have different understandings of what is meant. I infer that what was 
being stated was that the provision of details of an alternative residential address elsewhere 
was considered by the management to be sufficient evidence of compliance  until such time 
as was proved otherwise. Ive no reason to think that was not correct.
Mr W  and I dont criticise him for this - took the view that because he believed the nature of 
his occupation meant he was treating the home as his only or main residence he would be at 
risk of eviction. Hence his decision to leave and ultimately VT the agreement.
The apparent friction between Mr Ws view and that taken by PH management appears to be 
related primarily to the issue of enforcement. And what Mr W is saying is that a blind eye 
was being turned to breaches of the agreement. Its not for me to say if Mr Ws perception is 
correct but its a truism that breaches of agreements usually only become problematic to 
those in breach if enforcement action is taken or seems imminent.
I dont apply the law in the same way a court might  and Im not required to use the rules 
about statutory interpretation of disputed phrases such as main or permanent residence. So 
its not for me to decide if Mr Ws occupation of the caravan amounted to a breach of the 
terms of the agreement. He apparently assumed it did and took what he saw as remedial 
steps.
The Holiday Home Purchase Confirmation form referred to not being able to use the home 
as a main residence. Whereas the document checklist refers to it not permitting the use of 
the home as a permanent residence. 
Although the title of a facility doesnt always provide a definitive guide to the services on 
offer, the term Holiday Home infers that the facility is being offered as other than a main 
residence.
I dont think it appropriate to use a strict mathematical approach to the meaning of these 
descriptions. It seems clear the intention of the conditions restricting use is simply to limit it 
to those who have accommodation elsewhere. And who wish to occupy the caravan park 
principally as a base for leisure and recreation  even if it is also used for other purposes. As examples, someone using their park home for leisure over long week-ends and bank 
holidays whilst maintaining an address elsewhere, wouldnt obviously breach the main 
residence restriction. Even if the proportion of time spent at the park was more than 50%. 
Equally, someone who spent much less than 50 % of their time living at the park might find it 
was considered their main residence if they didnt have an alternative address and their 
employment required them to travel around the rest of the time without another permanent 
base.
The requirement for the provision of an annual letter indicating that a park home owner had 
another address elsewhere would seem to be consistent with the management of the site 
taking at least some steps to check that the terms of occupation were being met. Whether 
that was a genuine or sufficient attempt at enforcement is not a matter for me to determine. 
In terms of any agreement between PH and park home owners it is up to the site 
management to enforce the conditions as it sees fit. If the local authority which licences the 
terms on which the park is used has any doubts then equally its up to that authority to take 
such enforcement measures as it deems appropriate. But as I mentioned earlier these are 
issues of enforcement. They only arise after the agreement is entered.
Looking at the documents that Mr W signed I find he knew, or ought reasonably to have 
known, that using the site as a main or permanent residence wasnt allowed. Whether or not 
that was likely to be enforced in practice does not alter the terms of the agreement.
I know that Mr W is likely to be disappointed by my decision. But Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman