DRN-4248794
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr J was involved in an incident and Advantage took his car for repairs. It couldnt complete 
these due to the lack of a part and so it deemed the car to be a total loss. Mr J was unhappy 
with this, but he accepted a cash in lieu of repairs settlement. Mr J was then unhappy as he 
said he was told he wouldnt have to pay his policy excess if he accepted cash in lieu of 
repairs. He said the car was returned to him with further damage. And he was unhappy that 
it took Advantage so long to deem his car to be a total loss. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought the 
policy excess would always have to be paid. She didnt see evidence that Advantage had 
further damaged Mr Js car. But she thought Advantage took too long before it declared the 
car to be total loss and she thought it should pay Mr J £150 compensation for this. 
Mr J replied that he accepted this. But Advantage replied that it hadnt caused any avoidable 
delays. Advantage said Mr Js car had been driveable and repairable after the incident. 
When it was taken for repairs, it was found that one part was unobtainable. So it said it 
promptly declared the car to be a constructive total loss. It said Mr J didnt accept its decision 
for a month. Advantage asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J said his car was now being repaired. And I can understand that he has found the claims 
process frustrating and stressful. Advantage has a responsibility to deal with claims fairly 
and promptly. 
Mr J has accepted the Investigators view that Advantage wasnt responsible for the further 
damage to his car and that his policy excess would always be payable. Im satisfied that she 
was correct for the same reasons as stated above. So Ill not consider those concerns 
further here. 
What remains for me to consider is whether Advantage caused any avoidable delays in the 
claim and what impact this may have had on Mr J. So Ive looked at the timeline of events 
provided by Mr J and Advantage.
Mr J made a claim on 22 October 2022. His car was drivable and so Mr J was kept mobile 
whilst Advantage located an approved repairer. I can see that Advantage warned Mr J that 
the global parts shortage would mean that it would take longer to repair his car. And 
Advantage explained that it was prioritising non-drivable cars. So I think Advantage 
reasonably managed Mr Js expectations at the start of the claim. 
Mr J said Advantage took the car for repairs on 7 January 2023. Advantage said it took the 
car on 20 January 2023. But it also told us this was the date the repairers ordered the 
needed part and when it found that the part wasnt available. 
Advantage later said Mr J deferred the repairs until 12 February 2023. But I havent seen 
evidence to support this and so Ill rely on Mr Js statement to us. From what I can see, Mr J 
was provided with a courtesy car whilst his car was at the repairers, so he was kept mobile. 
Mr J said he contacted the repairer six weeks later for an update. He said the repairer told 
him that it couldnt obtain one part and it was discussing options with Advantage. Advantage 
told us that the repairer knew the part wasnt available on 20 January 2023. And I think 
discussions should then have been had with Advantage to look at the options. 
But the repairer confirmed to Advantage on 27 February 2023 the part was not available, 
and it was on back order with no lead time. So I think this took longer than Id expect and so 
it caused an avoidable delay in the claim. Advantages engineers decided the same day that 
the car was a constructive total loss, and it made a settlement offer to Mr J.
Mr J was unhappy with this as he was able to locate the part online. Advantage agreed that 
it would reimburse him if he obtained the part, and its repairer would then fit it. The repairer 
declined to do this as it could not guarantee this part and so Advantage made Mr J a cash in 
lieu offer three days later. 
Mr J accepted the offer on 2 March 2023, but he disputed that he should pay the policy 
excess. Rather than pay Mr J an interim settlement, which it did a month later, Advantage 
investigated the complaint. Mr Js partner collected the car on 7 March 2023, but the 
payment wasnt made until 29 March 2023. The dispute was still unresolved, so I cant see 
why Advantage didnt make the interim payment sooner. I think this was a further avoidable 
delay.
So Mr J was unable to arrange his repairs for a further month. Mr J was without a courtesy 
car after the cash payment was made and, as his cars MOT had expired, he had difficulties 
getting estimates for its repair. 
Our Investigator recommended that Advantage should pay Mr J £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by the delays in his claim. And I think thats in keeping with our 
published guidance where errors have caused trouble and upset over a period of months, as 
in Mr Js case. So Im satisfied that £150 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr J £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman