DRN-2371424
The complaint
Mr L on behalf of Mr and Mrs M has complained that Legal & General Insurance Limited 
(L&G) unfairly declined part of a claim under their home insurance policy for accidental 
damage to their drainage system.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms property has a foul drainage system consisting of a septic tank which 
discharges into a drainage field. 
Following the emptying of their septic tank Mr and Mrs M say they became aware that there 
was a problem with their drainage system. After taking advice they made a claim for 
accidental damage to their septic tank.
L&G appointed a specialist to carry out investigations. It didnt find any damage to the 
septic tank. It said it found a section of pipe leading from the septic tank to the drainage 
field had been damaged by tree roots and replaced that. It also said the drainage field had 
failed but said that wasnt covered by the policy.
On the basis of its specialists report L&G declined to carry out any further repairs. It said if 
the system still wasnt working properly after the drainage field had been replaced, it would 
carry out further investigations. 
Mr L said the repairs carried out by L&Gs specialist were ineffective. He questioned 
whether it had carried out any repair to the pipe. He thought L&G should accept the claim 
for damage to the drainage field or pay the ongoing costs of emptying the septic tank.
Mr L brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think the 
drainage field was covered by the policy. He also said there was no evidence that L&Gs 
specialist hadnt carried out the work it claimed to have done and thought the problem was 
with the drainage field. He thought L&G had acted reasonably in offering to carry out further 
investigations once the drainage field had been replaced.
As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have to prove their claim in the first instance by showing that damage to their 
drainage field was caused by something covered by the policy. They have accidental 
damage cover for buildings. The definition of buildings in the policy includes:
iii) permanently connected:
Fa) drains,  pipes  and cables  for which  you are legally  responsible ;
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as Sudden, unintentional and unexpected 
physical damage that can be seen.
L&G said the drainage field wasnt permanently connected. It said there was an outlet pipe 
from the septic tank which ended at the drainage field. Ive seen a photo which supports this 
description.
But even if the drainage field were to be considered as permanently connected, Im not 
persuaded that it suffered accidental damage as defined in the policy. Its generally 
accepted that drainage fields have a limited lifespan and at the end of that time they 
become clogged up through normal use and stop working. Mr and Mrs Ms drainage expert 
said it believed the drainage field has been compromised and is non-functioning. Theres 
no suggestion in its report that the drainage field had suffered accidental damage.
L&Gs specialist said it found the ground in the drainage field was sodden and black. It 
thought the drainage field had failed and a new one should be installed. It said there was no 
sign of the drainage field having suffered accidental damage from tree roots. Having thought 
about all the information carefully, Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs M have shown on the 
balance of probabilities that the drainage field suffered accidental damage.
Mr L said that where an insurer has chosen to repair damage, its liable to ensure the repair 
is effective and lasting. I agree. In this case L&G said its specialist carried out a repair to an 
underground pipe which was clogged with tree roots. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that 
this repair has failed or that it is responsible for the ongoing problems with the drainage field. 
Ive also seen no evidence to show that a section of pipe wasnt in fact replaced at all.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I dont think L&G treated them unfairly in declining 
their claim for damage to the drainage field.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman