DRN-2818497
The complaint
Mr B complains that Equifax Limited wouldnt permit him to open an account without his 
providing additional information about his identity. He wishes to access his credit file and 
obtain his credit score without needing to supply the additional information.
What happened
Mr B tells us that he tried to obtain a copy of his Equifax credit file and score. But he couldnt 
access it as Equifax needed to confirm his identity. He says he feels Equifax is likely holding 
incorrect information about his account management as hes been refused a mobile phone 
contract. But he says his credit file shouldnt have any adverse information on it. He explains 
that he was told that the phone application was declined due to Equifax advising the 
prospective lender not to offer credit to him.
Equifax told us that when Mr B had called in December 2020, in order to activate his 
account, hed been unable to pass the security verification process. So it had asked him to 
provide two items of personal identification documents to complete the process. It also said 
that as it wasnt a lender it wouldnt advise if credit should or should not be given. And that 
lenders have their own methods of calculating credit scores.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Equifax was entitled to require identification verification. And that it wouldnt be able to offer 
him a reason why hed been turned down for a mobile phone contract as the prospective 
lender wouldnt share the reasons for its decision. She confirmed that Equifax credit scores 
arent shared with lenders.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view. As its not been possible to resolve this 
complaint, an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B feels strongly about this matter. And I understand his concern if it seems 
that other credit reference agencies are giving him a better credit score that Equifax. I also 
accept that hed want to know why his application for a mobile phone contract had been 
declined. 
I should say at the outset that this service doesnt have power to require a business to 
change its processes. Or to direct what documents it should require in seeking to verify a 
customers identification.
Credit reference agencies (CRA) each have their own way of recording the financial 
information with which theyre provided. And their own methods of calculating the scores. 
Not all businesses report to each of the CRAs, so its not unusual if there are some 
variations in credit scores between different CRAs.
I understand that it can be inconvenient to be asked to provide additional information. But
I dont find that Equifax did anything wrong in requiring Mr B to verify his identity before 
allowing him to access his credit record. Its in all our interests that security checks are 
enforced to reduce the likelihood of personal information being accessed by those without an 
entitlement to see it.
Ive seen nothing to show that Equifax is recording any details of Mr Bs credit history 
inaccurately. Or that it gave any advice to the business that declined his application for a 
mobile phone account. I agree with our investigator that if Mr B feels this application was 
refused unfairly, hed have to take that up with the relevant business.
In summary, I cant see that Equifax has acted other than correctly in the circumstances. I 
shant be asking it to do anything else to resolve Mr Bs complaint.  Accordingly, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman