DRN-2890860
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to respond to his letter, and failed 
to be supportive when he told it about his financial difficulties and poor mental health.
What happened
 In June 2019 Mr G took out a personal loan from NatWest for nearly £10,000. In October of 
that year, he became unable to work due to having had a mental breakdown. (He later lost 
his job permanently.) In that month he wrote to NatWest to tell the bank about his change in 
circumstances and his health, and to ask for interest and charges to be frozen until his 
position improved. But NatWest did not respond to that letter. There is still no explanation as 
to why. As a result, NatWest continued to send Mr G offers of further credit, which he found 
to be unhelpful for someone in his position.
Towards the end of November, Mr G phoned NatWest. He says that the call handler was 
unhelpful and unsympathetic, and that the bank offered no solutions other than defaulting his 
account, which Mr G did not want. The call became too much for him, and he handed the 
phone to his mother, who was also upset by the call. Mr G raised a complaint. (Meanwhile, 
he still made his loan repayments in October, November and December, but stopped making 
payments in 2020.)
In January 2020, NatWest upheld Mr Gs complaint. Although it could not find a recording of 
the phone call, it accepted Mr Gs description of it, and of the effect it had had on him. It 
could not explain why the letter had not been dealt with promptly, but it accepted that its 
customer service had been poor. NatWest apologised and cleared Mr Gs arrears (his first 
missed payment, about £195) and arrears interest.
Mr G was not satisfied with that response, and so he brought this complaint to our service. 
He asked for NatWest to waive the entire loan balance (nearly £9,000 at the time).
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint, on the ground that she thought NatWests 
apology and compensation of nearly £200 were enough. Mr G did not accept that opinion, 
and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said £195 was a drop in the ocean for a 
bank with NatWests resources.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I am currently minded to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Although I accept that Mr Gs mother was also distressed by the phone call in November, 
I am unable to award compensation for that. That is because under the rules which set out 
the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service, she is not an eligible complainant 
(because she was not a party to the loan agreement). I can only award compensation for 
Mr Gs own distress or inconvenience.
According to NatWests own internal notes, it appears that somebody at NatWest received 
and read Mr Gs letter on 6 December, a week after the phone call. It is not clear why it took 
that long for that to happen, but I agree it is poor service. I also accept Mr Gs description of 
the phone call, and I think that NatWest was right to concede that he received poor service 
on that call. All the call handler did was offer to default Mr Gs account, when he was still 
expecting to return to work.
For those two issues  the poor service in the November phone call, and the failure to deal 
with the October letter in a timely manner  I think that waiving one monthly payment was 
fair compensation for Mr Gs distress. The amount involved, approximately £195, is in line 
with the level of award our Service would typically make if NatWest had done nothing. I dont 
think it would be proportionate to require NatWest to write off a debt of around £9,000 as 
compensation to the two issues this complaint is about.
For these reasons, I think NatWest has done enough to compensate Mr G for the distress he 
experienced as a result of the phone call and for not receiving a timely response to his letter. 
But I have also gone on to consider whether NatWest should have done more to help Mr G 
through his financial difficulties at the time, since Mr Gs complaint is that NatWest failed to 
respond adequately to his requests for assistance.
Mr G complained to NatWest in December 2019, and then referred his complaint to our 
Service in January 2020, immediately after receiving NatWests final response. So I cannot 
consider whether NatWest ought to have done more to help him since early January. But 
I can consider whether it ought to have done more to help him up until then  not just to 
compensate him for the things he has complained about, but also to help him deal with his 
financial difficulties. And I do not think that waiving one monthly payment (Januarys) was 
enough.
Mr Gs letter and phone call were pleas for help from someone who had lost his source of 
income and was experiencing mental health problems. So NatWest was under a duty to 
respond positively and sympathetically. I am currently not persuaded that it did.
Before I continue, I will set out some relevant regulations and guidelines which I have taken 
into account.
The 2016 Standards of Lending Practice, in the chapter about customers in financial 
difficulty, says:
Firms should apply an appropriate level of forbearance, where, after having made 
contact with the customer, it is clear that this would be appropriate for their 
situation. (Paragraph 7.)
Firms should consider freezing or reducing interest and charges when a customer is 
in financial difficulty. (Paragraph 9.)
Regulations made by the Financial Conduct Authority say:
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration. (CONC 7.3.4.)
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include (1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties 
and is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make token 
repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if interest 
and charges continue to be applied); 
(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a 
customer to recover from an unexpected income shock (CONC 7.3.6.)
In its final response letter to Mr G, NatWest appeared to concede that its call handler should 
have done more to help Mr G during the call. The letter read:
I also agree that when you had contacted the bank to discuss your account on 29th 
November 2019 the agent who assisted you was unsupportive and offered no 
solution other than to default on your loan.
I think NatWest was right to say that, since the regulations and guidelines I have quoted 
above do not suggest that defaulting a loan is the only way to help a customer.
However, in NatWests submissions to our investigator, the bank said that Mr G had not 
been eligible for financial assistance in the form of forbearance, because NatWests policy is 
only to offer this to customers who are in short term difficulty, and who are likely to be able to 
repay their arrears after a short period, which would typically be about three months. 
NatWest also told my colleague that it would not suspend interest on an account unless and 
until it was defaulted.
I cannot accept that a policy of never freezing interest on an account until it defaults is 
compatible with the regulations and guidelines I have quoted above. I think that NatWest 
fettered its discretion by not considering alternatives to a default, and that it contravened the 
rules by ruling them out.
I would agree that it would often be reasonable for a lender to default a loan if it has been in 
arrears for three months.1 But Mr Gs account did not fall into arrears until January 2020. As 
Ive said, he kept his repayments up to date in 2019. So at the time of the phone call, and 
when his letter was reviewed a week later, it would still have been reasonable to consider 
alternatives to a default. Mr G still intended to go back to work  he had not yet lost his job, 
and NatWest did not know that that was going to happen later (in March).
Its obviously impossible for me to know what NatWest would have done instead, if its call 
handler had been willing to consider alternatives. But for the purpose of fairly resolving this 
complaint, I think it is reasonable for me to consider one plausible course of action which it 
was open to NatWest to take, in order to decide how much better off Mr G might have been 
if the bank had acted differently. The bank could have agreed to suspend interest for the 
three months, starting with the interest which fell due on the same day as the phone call  
that is, for November, December, and January  and then to reassess Mr Gs position after 
that.
The interest charged in those three months, which I currently consider it reasonable for the 
bank to have waived in November 2019  or to refund now  was, respectively, £49:10, 
£53:39, and £51:03. The total comes to £153.52. I am currently minded to order NatWest to 
refund that total, in addition to what it has done already.
1 I have had regard to the Information Commissioners Offices 2016 guidelines Principles for the 
Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies.NatWest could also have allowed Mr G to make no repayments for three months, starting 
with Decembers payment (which was due two days after the phone call). But that does not 
necessarily mean that NatWest would have waived them; it might have just allowed Mr G to 
go into arrears by three payments, and he would still have been liable for them. So for that 
reason I am currently not minded to order the bank to refund Decembers payment.
I currently intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further submissions I receive from 
the parties  I am minded to order National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr G £153.52
Responses to my provisional decision
NatWest accepted my provisional decision. Mr G did not reply. So there is no reason for me 
to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order National Westminster Bank Plc to pay 
Mr G £153.52.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman