DRN-2258725
The complaint
Mr G complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited, declined his car insurance claim 
following an accident. For the sake of simplicity, Ill refer to Admiral throughout.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr G was involved in a car accident during poor weather conditions. His 
claim was declined by Admiral because the tread depth of his rear tyres was found to be 
below the legal limit. Mr G says his tyres sustained damage both during the accident, and 
during his drive home. He says hed bought his car new and had it regularly serviced, and 
there was no evidence that the tyres werent roadworthy before the accident took place. Mr 
G also says that the bad weather played a significant contributory factor in the accident. So, 
his claim should be honoured, at least in part.
Mr G says that the accident had left him without a vehicle, with a £20,000 repair bill and 
outstanding finance payments. This has caused him a great deal of stress. He wants Admiral 
to pay for the repairs to his car.
In December 2019, Admiral declined Mr Gs claim because the condition of his rear tyres 
had contributed to the accident and this breached the terms of his insurance policy.
Mr G complained and, in January 2020, Admiral sent their final response letter. They 
explained theyd instructed first an auto services company and, then, an independent 
assessor to inspect Mr Gs vehicle. The independent assessor concluded that the depth of 
Mr Gs tyre tread had been a contributing factor towards the accident.
Admiral further said that Mr Gs policy booklet contained an exclusion, which stated that he 
was obliged to make sure [his] vehicle is roadworthy. And that if an accident happened and 
the condition of the vehicle, caused or contributed to the accident, then the policy wouldnt 
provide cover. So, because Mr G was in breach of his policy on account of the condition of 
his tyres, and these had caused or contributed to the accident, Admiral were unable to cover 
his claim. Mr G didnt accept this and, in February 2020, referred the matter to this service.
In September 2020, our investigator sent out her view. She said she didnt think Admiral 
needed to do anything further to resolve Mr Gs complaint. This was because the term 
relating to roadworthiness and the term relating to the condition of the vehicle causing or 
contributing to the accident, allowed Admiral to decline the claim. She pointed out that 
Admiral had got an independent assessor to examine Mr Gs car as part of their damage 
assessment. And the assessor had found both the rear tyres on the car had a tread of zero, 
which was below the legal limit. In his report, the assessor said that notwithstanding the bad 
weather at the time of the accident, the tyres had contributed to the accident.
The investigator also made clear that the policy terms stated that it was the duty of the 
policyholder to ensure his vehicle was kept in good condition. And it wouldnt be covered if 
this wasnt the case. As Admiral had concluded that the poor condition of the tyres 
contributed to the accident on the basis of the assessors report, she didnt think theyd acted 
incorrectly or unfairly in declining Mr Gs claim. So, she wouldnt be asking Admiral to do 
anything further in respect of this part of the complaint.
In respect of the polices advice that Mr G drive his car home after the accident, our 
investigator said that Admiral had addressed this in their final response letter. And they 
couldnt comment on the actions of the police or the thoroughness of their inspection. So, 
she didnt think that Admiral had acted unreasonably here either. 
The investigator also acknowledged that in the cars annual service in April 2019, no details 
of the condition of the rear tyres were recorded, other than that they were OK. And as the 
tyres hadnt been changed since the car was bought in April 2018, it was reasonable to 
conclude that while they might have been roadworthy in April 2019, theyd be more worn 
after the further 5,000 miles Mr G had driven subsequently. So, she thought Admiral acted 
fairly and reasonably in deciding not to settle Mr Gs claim.
Mr G was unhappy with this and argued that the terms of his policy werent fair. He said his 
car was well-maintained and the tyres had done little over half their advised mileage. And it 
wasnt possible to tell the tread depth of his tyres before the accident, or its impact on the 
outcome. He also said the condition of his car wasnt the sole cause of the accident because 
the poor weather conditions were another significant contributory factor. He suggested it 
would be fair for Admiral to pay him a settlement of approximately 50% of his claim.
Our investigator considered Mr Gs submissions but her decision remained the same. She 
said that while the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority confirmed the importance for 
insurers to ensure fairness in dealing with claims, shed considered all the evidence and 
whether Admiral had treated Mr G fairly and reasonably in declining his claim.
In particular, she mentioned Mr Gs points about the servicing of his car and the contents of 
his last service report, especially with regard to the tyres. She reiterated that the engineers 
report stated that the tyres were already in a condition which meant they were illegal at the 
time of the accident and this hadnt been caused during the incident or driving the car home.
In respect of Mr Gs point about the poor driving conditions, our investigator explained that, 
notwithstanding these, his policy was clear that if the condition of the vehicle caused or 
contributed to the accident, no cover would be provided. So, she repeated that she thought 
Admiral had handled the claim fairly and didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr G remained unhappy with this response and asked for his case to be reconsidered by an 
ombudsman. So, the case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for essentially the same reasons as our 
investigator. Let me explain why.
Ive looked at Mr Gs policy booklet, and under General Conditions of Your Cover, Care of 
your vehicle, the terms state:
You or any person covered by the policy mustmake sure your vehicle is roadworthy.
It goes on to state that if: the condition of the vehicle, caused or contributed to the accident, 
no cover will be provided.So, Im satisfied that its Mr Gs responsibility to ensure his vehicle is roadworthy. And that, in 
the event of an accident, if the condition of the vehicle contributed to the accident, the policy 
wont provide cover. So, I think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to rely on these terms.
Mr G has also suggested that these are unfair policy terms. Ive considered this but I dont 
agree. If a policyholder fails to keep their car roadworthy, I think its self-evident that this 
increases the risk of an accident and therefore the risk that Admiral, as the insurer, would be 
exposed to. So, I dont think its unreasonable for them to explain that cover wont be in 
place if a lack of proper maintenance causes or contributes to an accident. 
Ive also looked at the report of the independent assessor dated 22 November 2019. This 
states that: the tyre gauge was reading zero on both rear tyres which was illegal and 
would certainly not pass a MOT. The assessor concluded that Mr Gs car was not 
roadworthy at the time of his inspection. And on the basis of his findings, I agree.
Mr G has said that its impossible to be sure about the condition of his tyres immediately 
before the accident, however, and suggested that significant damage was also caused both 
during the accident and / or on his journey back home from the scene of the accident. So, for 
this reason, he says the assessors report cant be relied on. But the assessor also 
commented that the suggestion the damage had occurred during the accident was 
impossible. Specifically, he said that if excessive tyre wear had occurred during the 
accident, he would have expected the tyres to have a flat spot. But this isnt what he 
observed and the wear was consistent around the tyres. He also said that the pattern of 
wear to the tyres would have been different if theyd become so worn during the drive home.
Mr G also argued that the police allowed him to drive his car home but, as Admiral have 
said, this was a decision for the police and is not something either they, or I, can comment 
on. So, I dont think Admiral have behaved unreasonably here either. In any case, as the 
assessor found this journey hadnt caused the condition of the tyres, I think its fair for 
Admiral to rely on that conclusion when they made their decision about the claim.
 
Mr G also said that the annual service on his car in April 2019 hadnt disclosed any problems 
with his tyres or indicated that they required replacement. So, Ive looked at the service 
documents too. And while Mr Gs statement is correct, although his tyres may have been 
roadworthy in April 2019, they would inevitably have suffered from further wear from the 
additional 5,000-plus miles driven between the date of the service and the date of the 
accident in November 2019. So, I dont believe this evidences that the tyres were in a 
roadworthy condition at the time of the accident.
In summary, Admiral declined Mr Gs claim because he hadnt met the policy terms and 
conditions in respect of the general upkeep of his car and because the condition of his rear 
tyres had contributed to the accident. So, I think that Admirals reasoning was wholly in line 
with their policy terms and the evidence provided by the assessor. And, overall, I think their 
decision to decline Mr Gs claim was fair and reasonable and Im not going to ask them to do 
any more to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman