DRN-3202439
The complaint
Mr H complains that EUI Limited declined a claim made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H has a home insurance policy underwritten by EUI which covers his buildings and 
contents, amongst other things.
He made a claim in July 2020 after he discovered that water was entering his home through 
a leak (or leaks) in the roof. He says the insulation in his attic was saturated and the ingress 
of water was causing stains to appear on his ceilings. 
EUI declined the claim. In short, they said there was no insured peril, the damage predated 
the inception of Mr Hs policy and was due to poor workmanship and poor previous repairs. 
And Mr H had had the current repairs carried out before theyd had an opportunity to assess 
the damage.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and complained to EUI. And when they maintained their stance, 
he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think EUI had done anything wrong. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case about what Mr Hs policy does and does not cover. It covers 
damage caused by storms  which is what Mr H says caused the damage. 
It does not cover damage or issues which pre-dated the inception of the policy. This is true 
of almost all insurance policies of this type. 
It doesnt cover damage caused by poor design or workmanship  or damage caused in the 
process of affecting repairs. Again, this is in line with most other buildings insurance policies.
It also contains a condition that the policyholder, when making a claim, must not agree to 
have works carried out unless and until they are agreed by EUI. Again, this is a usual feature 
of this type of policy.
When Mr H contacted EUI to make the claim, he told them hed had on-going issues with the 
relevant area of his roof. These started more than 18 months previously  and Mr H had had 
repairs carried out another two times in the 12 months after that.
He also said hed now employed a new builder to carry out the most recent repairs. That 
builder had told him the issue was with the lead used to line one of the valleys in the roof  
to take water to the gutters and so away from the house. 
This lead had been laid in a single piece  which the new builder said was bound to split - 
and would continue to do so, if replaced in the same way. Hed repaired the roof by laying 
new lead in three separate overlapping pieces.
Mr H doesnt now dispute any of this. And I think its very clear that weve identified the 
reason (or at least one of the reasons) for the ingress of water into Mr Hs attic and onto his 
ceilings.
The cause of that ingress of water is clearly poor workmanship (originally), and poor repairs 
(Mr H says repairs were carried out twice in the 12 months after the original incident) by 
previous builders.
Thats not covered by the policy, as EUI have pointed out. Nor is anything which predates 
the inception of the policy. 
If we go back 18 months from the date of the claim (in July 2020), to when Mr H says the 
issues started, we arrive at around January 2019. Mr H took out his policy with EUI in 
September 2019, some nine months or so later.
Mr H says the damage to his roof wasnt only in the area where hed previously experienced 
these issues. 
He says theres another lead-lined valley, which had become damaged and blocked by 
debris. And he says that build-up of debris  and possible damage to the lead caused by 
slipped slates  was caused by storms in January and/or February 2020.
If that were true, then some of the damage to Mr Hs roof would be covered, all else being 
equal. Storm is a peril covered under the terms of the policy.
Mr H says when his previous roofer carried out repairs on the other valley (in 2019), he 
would have noticed any build-up of debris or damage to the lead in the valley in question  
and would have mentioned this to Mr H. 
So, the debris was carried into the valley by the high winds and rainfall of storms Ciara and 
Dennis in early 2020. And any damage to the lead must have occurred in 2020 too  and 
again would have been caused by the storms.
Ill leave aside the question of whether Mr Hs previous roofer is to be relied upon, given his 
work on the other valley, which appears to have needed repairs on three occasions in a 
short space of time and in which the single piece of lead eventually had to be replaced 
altogether.
If I were to accept Mr Hs view on the cause of the issues with the second valley, Id have to 
believe that a storm or storms in January or February 2020 led directly to damage which he 
only reported to his insurer in July of that year.
That is, at the very least, a bit of a stretch, given the lapse in time between the storm(s) and 
the claim. Mr H says the lead may have been punctured by slates dislodged by the storm(s), 
but I think the water ingress might have manifested itself well before July if that were the 
cause of the leak.Theres also a possibility that the debris caused a blockage which gradually backed up the 
water trying to escape through the valley, causing the leak to occur. 
If that were the case, I think it would still be a stretch to say the storm was the principal 
operating cause of the problem. 
From the photographs we have, it appears that the debris causing the blockage is a 
combination of moss, soil, twigs and bits of tile or brick. 
Some of that may have been carried to that location by the storm(s), but much of it might 
have found its way there in any rain or wind. And it may also indicate that the roof hadnt 
been kept well-maintained over a period of time  especially the moss and/or soil.
Id also say that the principal reason for the leak in that case wasnt so much the storm(s) as 
the fact that the valleys werent cleared. Mr H has questioned whether thats fair  he asks 
how often one might be expected to check roof valleys or gutters and clear them. 
I take Mr Hs point, but Id say it might be reasonable for an insurer to expect that a 
policyholder would carry out those checks as often as necessary, given all the 
circumstances  for example, the recent weather conditions, the state of the roof beforehand 
(for example, whether there was moss growing on the roof), the narrowness of any valleys or 
gutters etc.
I havent given full consideration here to the point about whether Mr H got the repairs carried 
out prematurely. I know the policy says that policyholders making a claim should wait for 
approval / agreement from EUI before commissioning repairs. 
But Mr H has pointed out that when he rang EUI to make the claim, he got an automated 
response which said due to COVID it may take EUI some time to get back to the caller. 
I dont think it was entirely unreasonable for Mr H to go ahead with the work in that case, 
given all of the circumstances.
However, I think thats beside the point given the other reasons  in my view legitimate and 
justified  which EUI have for declining the claim.
In short, much of the damage to Mr Hs roof was due to poor workmanship or design and/or 
poor repair. 
If any of the damage was due to other factors, its very unlikely  given the six months or so 
between the storm(s) and the claim being made  that the storms were the effective cause of 
any damage.
So, I cant conclude that its unfair or unreasonable for EUI to decline Mr Hs claim, based on 
the information and evidence he himself has provided. Im satisfied their decision on the 
claim is justified when I consider the terms of the policy and how theyve been applied in this 
case.
I should say that if Mr H provides EUI with any further information or evidence to support his 
view that the storm(s) caused the damage, I would expect EUI to take that into account and 
to look again at the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman