DRN-1730672
 
The complaint
Mr J says Provident Personal Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly. He says Provident 
didnt make proper financial checks to see if he could afford the lending. And this led to him 
having extreme financial problems. In particular he says that his ongoing debt was sold to a 
third party and he entered into an arrangement to pay this loan, and some other credit, that 
ended in 2018.  
What happened
This complaint is about six home collected credit loans Provident provided to Mr J between 
November 2006 and December 2010. Ive set out below an overview of Mr Js borrowing 
based on the information that Provident provided us.  
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm (weeks) date ended
1 17/11/2006 £500 144 27/03/2007
2 30/07/2007 £1,000 50 04/03/2008
3 30/12/2008 £700 57 14/12/2010
4 23/03/2009 £300 106 01/12/2020
5 24/11/2009 £1,000 55 01/12/2009
6 14/12/2010 £1,725 55 outstanding
 
I understand that loan 3 is a solve loan. This loan wouldve been started to repay 
an outstanding debt Mr J had with Provident. Provident says that no interest was charged, 
although Mr J may have incurred costs. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Provident was wrong to have 
approved loan 6. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He thinks that all of the 
lending was wrong. So, as no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost credit - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint. 
I cant consider loan 1 as it was sold before April 2007. I dont have the power to consider 
any home credit loans that were taken out before this date.  
And Provident accepted our adjudicators opinion about loan 6. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So I wont be making a decision about 
this lending. But Ive included loan 6 in my putting things right section below for 
completeness.
Provident hasnt been able to supply all the information about the checks it did before 
approving these loans. And Mr J has also been unable to supply much information about his 
circumstances at the time of sale. This is understandable given the time that has passed 
since the loans were arranged. 
The information I have shows that Provident is likely to have looked at Mr Js income and 
expenditure before lending. I think this would be proportionate in respect of loans 2 and 3. 
Loan 2 was still early in the lending relationship. And there was a break in the lending 
between loans 2 and 3. So it would be reasonable for Provident to think that Mr Js 
circumstances mayve improved. So I dont think that Provident was likely to be acting 
incorrectly when it approved loans 2 and 3. 
In respect of loans 4 and 5 it is possible that Provident should have made more detailed 
check into Mr Js circumstances before approving these loans. But as I said above, Mr J 
hasnt been able to provide enough information to allow me to say with any degree of 
certainty what Provident wouldve seen if it had made further checks. So Im also not 
persuaded that Provident was acting incorrectly when it approved loans 4 and 5. I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Provident was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr J mightve been having at the time. And so I dont think its reasonable 
to uphold his complaint on this basis. 
So, overall, I think Providents decisions to lend for loans 2 to 5 were likely to be reasonable 
and Im not upholding Mr Js complaint about them. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr J paid on loan 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
all entries about loan 6 should be removed from Mr Js credit file.
If Mr J still owes Provident any of the principal balance he borrowed on loan 6 then, instead 
of the above, for loan 6 Provident should remove all the interest and charges applied to the 
outstanding balance. Provident should then re-work the account as if all payments made by 
Mr J went to towards the principal. But importantly, Provident needs to make sure that Mr J 
doesnt repay more than the principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mr J hasnt repaid the principal he borrowed Provident can deduct this from 
the remainder of the compensation. If, Mr J has already paid enough to repay the principal 
then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple* interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
And if Provident no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the 
amount owed, then it should buy it back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled to make any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr J.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident to take off tax from this interest. Provident must 
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Js complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman