DRN-3173935
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly applied a marker to his credit file after he 
opened a new credit card account.
What happened
Mr H said he took out a Santander credit card and a few weeks later received a text to say 
his account hadnt been paid. Mr H immediately paid the small outstanding balance. And he 
asked why the direct debit hed set up hadnt gone through.
Mr H said he was told he hadnt set up a direct debit. But he hadnt received a statement or 
anything to show there was a balance that needed paying. Santander placed a marker on 
Mr Hs credit file for the non-payment and Mr H wants this removing. And he wants an 
apology and compensation for the loss of earnings while he was sorting this out.
Santander said it couldnt find any evidence of an error on its part. After looking at the credit 
card application it said Mr H hadnt opted to set up a direct debit. And it was therefore Mr Hs 
responsibility to make manual payments by the due dates. 
Santander said any credit file impact due to late payment had been applied correctly. The 
amount and due date of the credit card account was detailed on the statement issued 
through online banking. This was confirmed to Mr H during his application. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Santanders response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could see Mr H had been asked a number of 
questions when applying for the credit card. And hed ticked no when asked if the method of 
payment was direct debit. 
Our investigator could appreciate how mistakes might be made when completing online 
applications. But she couldnt say Santander had acted unfairly. Itd set up Mr Hs account as 
hed requested. And the terms and conditions of the account made it clear statements would 
be delivered through online banking unless the customer opted otherwise. 
Our investigator asked Santander to provide details of any emails sent to Mr H to confirm 
hed received notification that a statement was now available in his online banking. 
Santander confirmed emails had been successfully delivered to Mr Hs email account. So 
our investigator couldnt say Santander had done anything wrong in applying the late 
payment marker when Mr H had missed the deadline on his account. And she wouldnt be 
asking it to remove the marker from his credit file. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. Hed never received any emails from Santander 
about his statement. So he didnt know a payment was due. Mr H said hed recently received 
one from Santander to an old email account. And hes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr H has experienced. I can understand his frustration 
that a credit card application has resulted in a marker on his credit file. So Ive looked very 
carefully at everything thats happened to see if Santander has made any mistakes. And if so 
what it needs to do to put things right. 
When Mr H applied online for a new credit card he responded to a series of questions to 
confirm his preferences. Ive looked at screenshots of the application process and this 
included questions about credit limit increases and whether or not Mr H intended to make 
payments to the account by direct debit. 
The application shows Mr H replied no to paying by direct debit. So it wouldve been Mr Hs 
responsibility to make sure a manual payment reached his credit card account by the due 
date each month.
I do appreciate that it is sometimes easy to tick or untick the wrong box when completing 
forms online. But its the customers responsibility to make sure they answer each question 
correctly and as they intended. And if the customer confirms that the details theyve entered 
are correct I cant hold Santander responsible for setting up the account as Mr H had 
indicated. That wouldnt be fair.
At the end of the application process Mr H ticked to confirm he accepted the key document 
and terms and conditions of the account. And he ticked to say he understood that 
statements and other important information would be sent electronically. Finally Mr H ticked 
to confirm hed read and understood the information and documents provided in the 
application process.
Electronic delivery is part of the terms and conditions of the Santander account. Its not 
unusual as businesses move towards a paper-free model. And Ive not seen anything to 
show Mr H contacted Santander to request paper statements instead.
Mr H says he never received any emails alerting him that a statement had been produced. 
So he didnt know a payment was due. And its unfair that Santander has affected his credit 
file when he didnt know he had to do anything.
Santander said Mr H wouldnt have received any additional information about online banking 
as he already had existing credentials before his application. And although Mr H says this 
was the only account he had with Santander I can see he recently received a message from 
Santander about a replacement card. This was sent to an email Mr H had used previously. 
So its likely Mr H had an account with Santander at some time in the past  even if a 
different email address had been used for that particular account.
I understand how frustrating this must have been for Mr H. And I dont dispute Mr Hs version 
of events. Hes adamant he never received any email notifications about an account 
statement. And I can see our investigator requested further evidence from Santander that 
the emails had been sent. 
Santander has provided electronic confirmation of emails sent to Mr Hs email address in 
April and May following the opening of Mr Hs credit card account. Both emails are marked 
as delivered. And each has been sent to the same email address Mr H has used in his 
correspondence with this service. While I dont doubt Mr Hs version of events, this shows the emails were successfully 
delivered to Mr Hs email address  even if Mr H was unaware of them for whatever reason. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on everything Ive seen I cant 
say Santander has done anything wrong. It set up the credit card account using the 
information provided by Mr H. This included the instruction that no direct debit payment 
method would be used. Mr H confirmed the details hed entered were correct. And that he 
understood that statements and other important correspondence would be sent to him 
electronically. 
Regardless of why Mr H didnt see the emails from Santander, I do think Mr H shouldve 
been aware that hed recently set up a credit card account. And if the card had been used 
then a payment would be due at some point. Although Santander did send Mr H statement 
notifications it is also Mr Hs responsibility to monitor his account and make sure everything 
was okay and that any payment deadlines were met  especially after opening a new 
account. 
Santander has a duty to correctly reflect how an account is being used to the credit 
reference agencies. And Ive not seen anything to suggest it made an error when it applied a 
late payment marker to Mr Hs account. 
So Im afraid I cant ask Santander to remove the marker from Mr Hs credit file. And I wont 
be asking it to do to anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman