DRN-2860265
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded her £450 she lost to a scam 
whereby she paid for goods but never received them.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when she wrote to 
Barclays upholding Miss Hs complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so 
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Miss H sent £450 via mobile banking to an account controlled by a fraudster on       
12 June 2020.
Miss H had successfully bid for a fridge freezer on an online auction website, but was 
advised by the fraudster that they were having problems with the money transfer 
service linked to that website.
Miss H was asked to pay by bank transfer instead. She was also given the 
fraudsters phone number to make contact easier. Miss H reviewed the fraudsters 
account on the auction website and found there were a number of positive reviews. 
On this basis she agreed to make the payment.
After making the payment, Miss H attempted to contact the fraudster to ensure the 
funds had been received, but her messages wouldnt go through. Miss H also saw 
the fridge freezer advertisement had been removed so tried to call the fraudster, but 
her calls wouldnt connect. At this point Miss H realised shed been the victim of a 
scam and contacted Barclays.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is 
a voluntary scheme Barclays has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have 
fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer has not met their 
requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Barclays has said Miss H ignored the following warning when making the transfer to the 
fraudster which it considers to be effective:
Could this be a scam?
If somebody else has asked or pressured you to make this payment online, such as through 
a social media or dating site, then you should take time to think about it before sending the 
payment.
We recommend that you speak to someone impartial as well.
It also said Miss H hadnt done enough to check the legitimacy of whom she was paying.
Barclays contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money. But no funds remained in 
the recipient account. 
Miss H brought her complaint to our service as she wasnt happy with Barclays decision. 
One of our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator didnt think the warnings provided by Barclays were effective. She said the 
warning wasnt relevant to the scam Miss H fell victim to, and that Miss H wasnt pressured 
by the fraudster to make the payment.
The investigator also found Miss H had a reasonable basis for believing she was making a 
legitimate purchase through a genuine seller. Miss H has said that the fraudster had been 
knowledgeable about the item and able to provide further photos when asked. Shes also 
said the fraudster had good feedback on the website from other customers.
The investigator said Barclays ought to have fully reimbursed Miss H at the time she made 
her claim and so should refund Miss H the £450 she lost to the scam, together with interest 
on the refund at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined her claim to the date 
of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 16 April 2021, with a deadline for 
responding of 30 April 2021. That deadline has passed and, about a month later, the bank 
has still failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Barclays to the 
investigators initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already have and to take account of Barclays failure to reply to the 
investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Miss H ought to have been fully reimbursed when 
she notified Barclays of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not she met her 
requisite level of care. I believe she did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator 
has already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for Miss H to have 
received a full refund at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Miss H ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay Miss H
the £450 Miss H lost as the result of a scam  within 28 days of receiving notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Barclays declined Miss Hs claim under the CRM to the 
date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman