DRN-1521050
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) lent irresponsibly to her.
 
What happened
Miss H took out a single loan with Cashfloat in July 2019. The loan was for £300. It was due 
to be repaid by three monthly instalments of around £146.
Miss H says she had short-term loans with several other lenders at the time, as well as 
significant credit card and overdraft debt. Shes explained that she was already struggling to 
pay her regular outgoings when she took out the loan with Cashfloat. She believes that if 
Cashfloat had carried out sufficient checks, it should have realised that she couldnt afford 
the loan, and it should have declined her application.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss H could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Cashfloat has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss H. It asked her about her 
income and expenditure. And its explained that then it compared her answers to statistical 
data, to check whether what Miss H had said about her living costs might be too low. And it 
carried out a credit check before agreeing to the loan.
I think that the checks Cashfloat did before giving Miss H the loan were sufficient. Given the 
amount Miss H needed to repay, what was apparent to Cashfloat about her circumstances at 
the time, and the fact that this was her first loan with the Cashfloat, I dont think it would have 
been proportionate for Cashfloat to ask her for the amount of information that might have 
shown the lending was unsustainable. Based on the information that it had, I think it would 
have looked to Cashfloat as if Miss H would be able to afford the monthly instalments on the 
loan relatively comfortably. And Im not aware of anything in the information Cashfloat should 
have been aware of which I think ought to have prompted it to take further steps to check 
Miss Hs true financial position independently.
Ive borne in mind that Miss H has mentioned that another lender has been found to have 
lent irresponsibly to her. But we consider each case independently, and Ive reached my 
decision taking into account all the information that Miss H and Cashfloat have provided in 
this case.
Im sorry to hear about the financial difficulties Miss H has experienced, and I know shell be 
disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think that Cashfloat 
was wrong to give this loan to her. So I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman