DRN-3358980
The complaint
Ms M complains through her representative that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely 
Loans lent her money on high cost loans she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Oakbrook provided the following loans to Ms M (using figures rounded up or down):
Date Amount Term 
(months)  Monthly 
instalmentRepaid
Loan 1 28/3/2015 £1,000 30 £53 By loan 2
Loan 2 5/10/2016 £1022 36 £49 By loan 3
Loan 3 2/11/2017 £1279 36 £61 By loan 4
Loan 4 26/10/2018 £1558 36 £74 Paid up*
*So far as Im aware.
She complained that she had to keep seeking top up loans and that she had difficulty finding 
the money to make repayments, which led to her missing some payments.
Oakbrook said that for each loan it obtained credit information. The reports are not available 
but the data was incorporated into its affordability assessments. It says it verified her income 
for each loan and says there were no difficulties with her repaying each loan (although the 
first three loans were paid off by each subsequent loan at the time). It believes the loans 
were affordable.
Ms M has sent in her bank statements for the period around each loan.
Our adjudicator said that for each loan the data showed that Ms M shouldnt have been lent 
the money. This was because of her commitments at the time of each loan, set against her 
income.
Oakbrook didnt respond to the adjudicators view, so the matter has been passed to me for 
further consideration.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Oakbrook complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms M 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms M would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Oakbrook to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Ms ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Oakbrook had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Oakbrook had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms M undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Oakbrook to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms M. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The third point above is particularly relevant, Ms M asked for and was given top up loans to 
repay each previous loan. This disguised any difficulty she might have had in repaying each 
loan as the period between each loan kept getting shorter. She was on a low salary 
throughout the period of these loans, so I think for each loan that Oakbrook should have 
carried out a thorough assessment of her finances.
loan 1
Ms M declared an income of £9,000. Oakbrooks own assessment showed that, after 
accounting for the loan instalment, she would have had a disposable income of about £40 a 
month. She had also been in considerable debt before  she had arrangements with four 
credit providers and with seven debt collectors to make payments of £1 a month. Oakbrook should have taken those factors into account. I dont think that on its own assessment Ms M 
was able to afford the loan. So I dont think it made a fair lending decision.
loan 2 
I think the information that came to light in respect of loan 1 should have alerted Oakbrook to 
carry out further checks. I wouldnt say it should have obtained bank statements, but those 
statements nevertheless would have given useful information.
Whilst Oakbrook assessed that Ms M could afford the loan, with a monthly disposable 
income of over £648, this was based on a monthly income of £872. Her salary from her bank 
statements was more like £305 a month. She had to rely on payments from others to keep 
her account in credit. The payment arrangements on those eleven accounts continued. 
Based on her commitments and her income I think this loan was unaffordable leaving her 
with a negative disposable income.
loans 3 and 4 
Again I think Oakbrook should have been alerted to carry out more extensive checks on 
Ms Ms circumstances. Her credit commitments, and her arrangements on defaulted 
accounts remained the same. And again I think her income was overstated (as Oakbrook 
would have discovered had it carried out more extensive checks). Her pay, according to her 
statements didnt go above £325 a month. In light of her history and her repeated requests 
for a top up, I think if Oakbrook had carried out those further checks it would have found the 
loans to be unaffordable. I note that it did refuse further top ups after loan 4.
In respect of all four loans I dont think Oakbrook made fair lending decisions.
Putting things right
Ms M has had the capital payment in respect of both loans, so its fair that she should repay 
this. So far as the loans are concerned I think Oakbrook should refund all interest and 
charges as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to all four loans.
Treat any payments made by Ms M as payments towards the capital amounts on each of 
the four loans.
If Ms M has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8%* simple 
interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Oakbrook should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Ms M.
Remove any adverse information about the loans from Ms Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakbrook to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman