The complaint
Mr M complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in November 2001. The 
policy protected the repayments on a mortgage which Mr M had taken out with Nationwide 
earlier that year. It could have paid out for up to twelve months if Mr M had become 
unemployed.
This decision deals only with Mr M's mis-sale complaint about the original sale of the 
PPI policy to him by Nationwide in 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
The mortgage and PPI policy were taken a long time ago. So its not that surprising to me 
that not all the documents likely to have been produced at the time are still available. 
Businesses arent required to keep such records for this period of time. And I wouldnt really 
expect Mr M to recall - in detail - everything that happened from so long ago either. So in 
cases like these, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the 
limited and incomplete information available to me. This includes what I know, more 
generally, about Nationwides standard processes and procedures for such sales from 
around this time. 
Nationwide says that, as the mortgage and PPI were taken out so long ago, it cant be sure 
of how the sale took place. But it seems that Mr M decided not to take out PPI cover at the 
time he was arranging his mortgage. I say this because Nationwide has provided a copy of 
Mr Ms mortgage application, on which Mr M ticked a box to say he didnt want PPI and 
signed underneath to confirm this decision. The PPI was then arranged some months later, 
in November 2001, when the mortgage had already been running for some time. 
DRN-1597383Theres nothing Ive seen that suggests Nationwide approached Mr M directly at this time to 
sell him the PPI policy. For example, it doesnt look like any significant terms or conditions 
attached to Mr Ms mortgage changed then. So it seems most likely that Mr M decided for 
himself at that time that he now wanted this type of cover. The cover selected only gave 
Mr M protection for unemployment and for a sum significantly greater than his monthly 
mortgage repayments. So this also makes me think that Mr M, himself, decided to take out a 
PPI policy with Nationwide in November 2001, choosing the cover he thought suited his 
circumstances best at that time. 
Unfortunately, Nationwide dont still have a copy of the PPI application form which Mr M is 
likely to have needed to complete for the insurer to set up his policy in November 2001. But 
its provided a record of a call which appears to have been made by Mr M at the time, 
correcting his name on policy documents.
So, taking account of all the information available to me, I think that Mr M actively chose to 
take out the PPI policy, knowing that it was optional. But I can understand why he might not 
recall this now.
Mr M says the PPI was recommended to him by Nationwide. But Nationwide says that, in 
keeping with the standard way in which it sold such policies, no advice would have been 
given to Mr M. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Nationwide departed from its 
normal practice in this case and advised Mr M to take out the policy  based on a bespoke 
assessment of his specific circumstances at the time.  So I think this is most likely to have 
been a non-advised PPI sale. This means that Nationwide didnt need to ensure that the 
policy was suitable for Mr M. But it did still need to give him enough information so that Mr M 
could decide if it was right for him.
With so little information now available about how the PPI was sold to Mr M, I cant be sure 
that the information Mr M received from Nationwide about the policy was as good as it could 
have been. But from what I know of his circumstances at the time, I dont think better 
information would have changed his mind about buying it. I say this because:
 
Mr M appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations
 
Mr M says he didnt need the cover the policy provided because he was entitled to a 
three month notice period and compensation payment from his employer if hed lost 
his job. He also says he had some savings he could have used to make his monthly 
mortgage repayments if hed needed to. But Mr M chose to take out the policy, so it 
seems he wanted the type of cover which it gave him. And this policy would have 
paid out in addition to these other means and, potentially, for longer than his 
employee benefits, alone would have lasted. I can see that, in making his original 
complaint to Nationwide, Mr M said he had savings worth between three and six 
months of his salary at the time of this PPI sale. More recently, Mr M has said he had 
some £50,000 of saving at that time. However, he says hes unable to obtain any 
documentary evidence of these savings, but points to the fact that he was able to 
make a large lump-sum repayment off his mortgage not that long after the sale as 
evidence that he had these savings at the time. But I dont think that the fact he could 
make a large repayment on his mortgage after the sale does show he had these 
savings then. And even if Mr M did have these savings, I dont think this means that 
its more likely than not that he wouldnt still have wanted the cover the PPI gave him 
if hed been given better information about the policy. On balance, I think it seems more likely that Mr M wanted this cover if he became unemployed so that he would 
still have had his savings and employee benefits available to use on things other than 
making his monthly mortgage repayments. And the fact that Mr M seems to have 
chosen to further increase the scope of his PPI cover after the sale  even though 
the size of his mortgage appears to have been reduced by then - also seems to me 
to suggest that he wanted this additional PPI protection, notwithstanding his other 
means. And so, I think taking the PPI was an understandable decision for Mr M to 
have taken at the time given his apparent desire to be well protected if he was 
unfortunate enough to lose his job. A mortgage is, after all, a big financial 
commitment  one where ones home is, potentially, at risk if things go wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr M. And as the premiums
were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled by Mr M if it no longer met his
needs.
So, having carefully considered all the available information, together with the specific 
reasons Mr M has given for still disagreeing with the adjudicators view, I dont think that 
Mr M has lost out by anything that Nationwide may have done wrong when it sold him this 
policy.
This means Nationwide doesnt have to compensate Mr M for all of the cost of the PPI. But 
Nationwide does have to compensate Mr M for some of the cost of the PPI because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell
Mr M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has compensated Mr M for the amount of commission
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in
this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society doesnt have to 
compensate Mr M for all of the cost he paid for the PPI. But Nationwide Building Society 
does have to compensate Mr M for any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
Nationwide Building Society doesnt have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Simon FurseOmbudsman