DRN-4453231
The complaint
Miss Ps complaint is about delays and the general handling of a number of claims she made 
on her Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) legal expenses insurance policy.
All references to RSA include their claims handlers. 
What happened
Miss P made three claims for professional negligence on her RSA legal expenses insurance 
policy. She says she sent RSA all of the documents relating to those claims, but they failed 
to process them properly. She complains of delays, the panel firms reaching outcomes she 
didnt think were accurate as well as RSA failing to deal with her complaints properly.
Miss P wants an apology from RSA, financial compensation, her claims processed in a 
timely manner and for all the questions shes raised to be addressed.
RSA considered Miss Ps complaints and accepted that there were a number of service 
failings on their part. They said that in relation to one of her claims, Miss P asked to be 
called back twice, but her calls werent returned. RSA apologised for this and offered Miss P 
£50 in compensation for this. They also recognised that there was a delay of about 2 months 
in Miss Ps files being properly shared with the panel firm appointed, for which they also 
apologised and offered her £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Beyond this, RSA didnt agree they had done anything else wrong.  Unhappy, Miss 
P referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered Miss Ps complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
she thought the compensation RSA had offered her was adequate to compensate her for the 
impact of the distress and inconvenience theyd caused. The investigator didnt think RSA 
was responsible for the actions of their panel firms and that where there were delays, RSA 
chased them in a timely manner. Miss P doesnt agree, so the matter has been passed to 
me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Miss Ps complaint against RSA. 
Miss P has made both detailed and lengthy submissions about her complaints against RSA. 
I dont intend to address them individually. Thats not intended to be disrespectful to Miss P. 
The approach Ive taken to determining her complaint is representative of the informal 
service we provide. 
I can see that Miss P has also made a number of other submissions after she made her 
complaint to RSA, which RSA havent had the opportunity to address. I wont be considering 
those here because the nature of the service we provide means that both parties need to be 
given the opportunity to properly consider each others cases and comment on them 
accordingly. And we dont generally consider additional or new submissions made after the 
time for a business to comment on them from the outset has passed. 
Looking at the nature of the complaints Miss P has made, I agree that there were service 
failings by RSA. RSA themselves accepted this was the case with regard to returning Miss 
Ps calls and allocating one of her claims to a panel firm in a timely manner. Miss P has also 
talked about a time where RSA failed to respond to one of her emails. In addition, shes 
unhappy that RSA didnt acknowledge her initial complaint and didnt relay the apologies of 
the panel firms to her. Even if I upheld all of these complaints, I wouldnt award more than 
the £150 RSA have offered to compensate Miss P for the failings theyve accepted. Thats 
because Im not persuaded there was a significant impact on Miss P beyond the frustration 
and inconvenience caused that warrants a higher award. So, I think that the amount RSA 
have offered adequately compensates her for the complaints shes made in respect of the 
service she received. I know Miss P feels she should be entitled to more in light of her health 
conditions, but I think the sum offered is enough to recognise the added stress this might 
have caused her in her particular circumstances and its consistent with the types of awards 
we make in similar matters.
I appreciate that Miss P is unhappy with how the panel firms dealt with her claims, but I cant 
comment on that. They are separate firms of professionals with their own codes of conduct 
and a separate regulator. If Miss P remains unhappy with their actions, she can complain to 
them directly or to The Legal Ombudsman. From what I can see, when Miss P raised 
concerns with RSA about queries shed raised that werent responded to, RSA addressed 
these by chasing the panel firm for responses where needed. Thats in line with what I would 
expect to see. 
Miss P is also unhappy about the conclusions the panel firms reached in respect of her 
claims- specifically that they didnt have reasonable prospects of success. Its a requirement 
of virtually all legal expenses insurance policies that any intended claim has a reasonable 
prospect of succeeding. Miss Ps policy is no exception. That means her claims needed to 
have over 51% prospects of success in order for RSA to cover them.
Our role isnt to evaluate the advice being given to an insurer by a firm of Solicitors or a 
Barrister. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the insurer has 
acted fairly. So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont 
generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or 
based on factual mistakes. RSA did this. And they obtained a Barristers opinion where they 
thought this was more appropriate. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. If Miss 
P remains unhappy with opinions shes received, she can challenge them by obtaining her 
own legal opinion from a legal professional of equal standing to the professionals that 
provided the advice. If that happens, Id expect RSA to reconsider her claims.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint against Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman