DRN-1734954
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold him mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policies in 2000 
and 2001.
What happened
Mr B initially arranged a mortgage with Lloyds in 2000 and during this time he was also sold 
an MPPI policy. In 2001, Mr B then applied for a further advance and at the same time was 
sold another MPPI policy. Both of the sales took place in a meeting.
Mr B says Lloyds mis-sold him the two MPPI policies. He says he had enough sick pay and 
savings and didnt need the cover. He says he didnt need the policies to protect him against 
any claims for his medical condition, that he says didnt affect him day to day. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr B doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint for the following reasons:
I looked into whether Mr B was given a choice to have the policies. I did this by 
considering both parties recollections and any documentation provided from the time of 
each sale. 
Mr Bs recollections about the two sales were not detailed. This is understandable due 
to the many years that have passed since the date of each sale. So, I looked at the 
sales documentation provided from that time to obtain an understanding as to what 
more likely happened.
I reviewed the sales documentation that was completed by the parties at the time of 
each sale. I have been able to see on both occasions in 2000 and 2001 that Mr B 
completed a separate application form and that the policy was presented as optional. 
I think, after considering the documentation provided and what I know of how Lloyds 
sold policies at that time, it is more likely that Mr B was advised it was a good idea to 
have the insurance to protect his mortgage repayments, and he took the cover on that 
advice in 2000 and again in 2001.
Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Mr B in 2000 and 2001, but it doesnt 
look as if these two policies were unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time of each sale. I say this because Mr B says he had good sick 
pay (between 3-6 months at the time of each sale) and savings, but I think the benefits 
provided by the policies would have been of use to him in a time of need. Having the 
policy in place would mean Mr B could use any provisions to cover other expenses. I 
think, on balance, Mr B would have found the cover the policies provided useful for any 
extended period of unemployment or sickness. I can also see no other reasons such as a 
significant or restrictive term that would make the policies unsuitable for him either. Mr B 
had a medical condition around the time of the sales, but he has been clear to our service 
that it didnt affect him from day to day. So, any restrictive terms on pre-existing medical 
conditions within either policy wouldnt have made the policy unsuitable for Mr B.
I cannot be sure if Mr B would have received the costs of the policies clearly but even if 
he had received all the information on this during each sale, I dont think it would have 
changed his mind to have the cover for the reasons that I have already given. The MPPI 
policies were reasonably priced compared to similar policies available at the time of 
each sale and to the monthly repayment. And Mr B could have cancelled the MPPI if it 
did become unaffordable in 2000 and 2001.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policies didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr B wouldve been affected by any of these based on what I have already 
concluded.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but on balance, I do not uphold his 
complaint for the reasons that I have given.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman