DRN-2434236
The complaint
Mr B complains about poor service from The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited in connection with setting up his pension payments.
What happened
Mr B had four pension plans administered through Royal London. His anticipated retirement 
date was July 2019, but there were a number of delays in setting up Mr Bs pension 
payments. Three of Mr Bs pensions came into payment in March 2020. The fourth came 
into payment in June 2020.
Mr B considered Royal London should backdate his pension payments to July 2019, in line 
with his expected retirement date.
Royal London accepted some of the delay in connection with the first three pensions 
couldve been avoided if its service had been better. It wasnt willing to backdate the pension 
payments, but it paid £600 compensation to Mr B.
Royal London also accepted there had been some delay in sending a retirement pack to Mr 
B in connection with his fourth pension. It paid a further £100 in connection with this.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
although there had been some delay by Royal London, the process had taken longer than 
anticipated because Mr B had changed his mind about the basis on which he wanted to take 
his pension. 
So she wasnt persuaded that the business was fully responsible for the pensions being paid 
later than Mr B had wanted. As such, the investigator didnt find that Royal London should 
backdate the pension payments as Mr B wanted. In the circumstances she was satisfied that 
the compensation paid by the business was reasonable.
In response to the investigators conclusions, Mr B accepted that his pension payments 
couldnt be backdated to July 2019. But the annuity for his fourth pension was being paid 
annually in advance. This had started in June 2020, which was a year later than Mr B had 
expected. As the payment was a year late, Mr B said Royal London should bring forward the 
date of his next payment to December 2020.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see there was a lot of confusion around the basis on which Mr B wanted to take his 
pension benefits. During the decision making process he requested a number of different 
quotes, and delays in obtaining the figures meant it took longer than it might have done to 
bring his pensions into payment.
Royal London accepted its service couldve been better in connection with the policies 
ending 921, 335 and 206. It paid compensation of £600 which I consider is reasonable in the 
circumstances. From what Ive seen, it seems Mr B has accepted its not reasonable for 
Royal London to backdate the payments for those policies to July 2019.
The fourth pension is for the policy ending 234. Mr B wanted to receive the annuity 
payments for this policy annually in advance. 
I understand there was some delay by Mr B in returning the application forms, which Royal 
London received in November 2019. Payment was made in December 2019, but Mr B 
contacted Royal London to find out why it hadnt been backdated to July 2019.
During that enquiry he found out the value of his policy was higher than when hed received 
his original quotes. He decided to return the payments hed received, and take tax free cash 
and asked for calculations based on an annual payment (rather than monthly). I understand 
this information was sent to Mr B in early January 2020, but he remained unhappy that the 
payment wasnt being backdated to July 2019.
Revised quotes were sent in May 2020 and the application form was completed in June 
2020. Payment was made in July 2020, backdated to the date of the application form.
Mr B maintains that the payment for policy ending 234 was a year too late. So he considers 
it reasonable for Royal London to bring forward the date of his next payment to December 
2020. 
But Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to ask Royal London to do that. From 
what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Royal London was responsible for the original forms 
not being received until November 2019. Once it was in receipt of Mr Bs instructions, it 
processed them promptly so that his pension came into payment in December 2019.
As Im not persuaded that Royal London unreasonably delayed payment of Mr Bs pension, I 
dont consider it had to backdate the payment to July 2019 at that point.
When Mr B contacted Royal London in December 2019 he decided to change the basis on 
which the pension was paid. Royal London provided the information Mr B needed without 
delay at that point. 
Royal London accepts there was some delay in providing updated quotes in April and May 
2020. It has paid £100 in recognition of this. 
Im satisfied that Royal London set up Mr Bs pension in line with his original instructions in 
December 2019, and it was his decision to change the basis on which it was paid. Despite 
the slight delay in April and May 2020, overall Im not persuaded that Royal London was 
responsible for the eventual timing of Mr Bs pension payment. Which is why I wont be 
asking it to bring forward the date of Mr Bs next pension payment as he would like.
I consider the £100 Royal London has paid in connection with the policy ending 234 to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman