DRN-3776730
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) accused him of using abusive 
language and inappropriate behaviour in branch, and that it has added notes to that effect to 
his customer file.
What happened
Mr T visited one of the banks branches on 15 April 2021. He says he was asked to put a 
mask on by a member of staff, but he is exempt due to a medical condition. He says the 
member of staff was very abrupt with him, so when he left, he says he calmly told the staff 
member he did not think she had a very pleasant manner.
Four days later Halifax sent Mr T a letter saying he had been verbally abusive in branch, and 
that if there were any further incidents of this nature then it may consider closing his account. 
Mr T was very upset by this letter, so he wrote to Halifax to complain.
Halifax looked into Mr Ts concerns but did not agree it had done anything wrong. It 
maintained that its branch staff felt he had behaved inappropriately. Mr T referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator did not recommend Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She considered, 
based on the available evidence, that Halifax had acted fairly. Mr T asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
I have weighed up the available evidence from both sides. As some of it is incomplete and 
contradictory, my decision is based on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely given the evidence I do have. 
There is no CCTV footage available to show what happened in branch on the 15 April 2021. 
The branch has provided testimony from its staff members that Mr T was verbally abusive 
and had behaved inappropriately. Having considered the branch testimony I am persuaded 
that some altercation/conflict occurred which led to the decision being made to write to Mr T 
to warn him that future incidents could lead to his account being closed. 
I appreciate that Mr T does not agree that he said anything abusive or that he behaved 
inappropriately in any way, and I accept in the absence of CCTV there is not the conclusive 
evidence Mr T would like. But Im satisfied that Halifax staff felt sufficiently concerned with 
Mr Ts behaviour in branch to take steps to warn him of the potential consequences of such 
behaviour. I think this is significant and dont think on balance the staff would have taken 
such action unless there were concerns about what Mr T had said or done that day. It 
follows that I consider it was therefore fair and reasonable for Halifax to write to Mr T to warn 
him about his behaviour.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman