DRN-1227834
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) settled a third party claim in 2014 without telling him. Hes also unhappy that NFU 
settled the third party claim costs including a personal injury claims for the other driver and 
passengers. Mr B wants NFU to remove the claim. 
What happened
In September 2014 Mr B hit another car from behind at a roundabout. He reported it to his 
insurer, NFU. In April 2019 Mr B discovered that NFU had settled a claim including personal 
injury claims from the other driver and passengers. Mr B complained to NFU about its 
decision to settle the claim and for failing to tell him it had done so. He said hed taken 
photos of both cars at the time and they showed no damage had occurred. 
NFU accepted that it had failed to update Mr B about the third party claim. It said it 
attempted to contact him by phone once in November 2014. However, it said that its 
decision to settle the third party claim was correct, based on the evidence it received and the 
circumstances of the incident.
Mr B remained unhappy and asked us to look at things for him. Our investigator explained 
that we dont decide liability. But we can look at whether an insurer reached its decision 
reasonably and in line with the policy. The investigator was satisfied that NFU had done this. 
Mr B didnt agree. He wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we cannot decide liability as this is the role of the courts. We 
can look at whether an insurer reached its decision to settle a claim reasonably and in line 
with the policy. 
NFUs policy has a term Ive seen in most  if not all motor insurance policies. This term 
allows NFU to take over the defence and settlement of a claim. This means NFU might make 
a decision Mr B disagrees with, but the policy allows NFU to do this. We dont disagree with 
this term in principle provided the insurer can show it treated its customer fairly when 
applying it.
Theres no dispute that an incident took place in September 2014 and that Mr Bs car hit the 
rear of the other drivers car. I understand how strongly he feels about the details of the third 
party claim. He says the photos which hes provided show no damage to either vehicle. He 
wasnt given the opportunity to provide such evidence to NFU at the time as he didnt know 
there was a third party claim.NFU received an engineers report from the other drivers representative. The repairs were 
consistent with the area of impact and for a low impact collision. Medical evidence was 
provided to support the personal injury claims. Causation wasnt in dispute. And so in light of 
the evidence provided by the third party  I dont think on balance that the photos Mr B had 
would have made a difference to the decision NFU reached. Mr Bs policy with NFU allows it 
to make a decision to settle a claim rather than risk significant costs of pursuing the matter. It 
relies on its knowledge and experience of dealing with and settling claims.
NFUs notes show a record of an attempt to call Mr B to give an update on the claim in 
November 2014. Mr B says he didnt receive this call. NFU accepts that it didnt do enough 
to update Mr B and I agree. I think NFU should have kept Mr B updated at key stages of the 
claim but it failed to do so. NFU apologised to Mr B for its failing here. 
But I cant ask NFU to remove the claim from Mr Bs record. The incident happened and a 
claim was made, which NFU settled. I understand Mr B will be very disappointed with my 
decision. And I think NFU failed to keep him updated about the claim. But I think its decision 
to settle the third party claim was reached reasonably and in line with the policy. So I dont 
think the outcome would have changed even if NFU had done more to keep Mr B updated. 
This means Im not asking NFU to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman