DRN-4140711
The complaint
Mr W complains about advice he received from WPS ADVISORY Ltd (WPS) in relation to 
the transfer of benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. 
What happened
Mr W held deferred benefits in a DB scheme from a period of previous employment. The 
scheme was subject to a buy-out by an insurer, which was announced in 2020. As part of 
this, Mr Ws former employer arranged for members of the scheme to have access to advice 
from WPS about their pensions, and the employer would cover the cost of this.
In September 2020, the DB scheme provided a transfer valuation of Mr Ws benefits. The 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) at that time was £215,067.50.
Mr W took up the option of receiving advice from WPS. WPS completed a fact find to gather 
information about Mr Ws circumstances and objectives. Mr W was 52, in good health, 
married with three children, two of which were financially dependent, and he worked full time 
as a contractor. Mr and Mrs W owned their own home and three further investment 
properties (one of which was held jointly with Mrs Ws parents) providing additional rental 
income. They had mortgages totalling £60,000 but also had savings of an equivalent 
amount, earmarked to repay the mortgages in full. WPS recorded that Mr W was interested 
in retiring at age 55 but accepted this might not be affordable and instead he may switch to 
working part time for a few years. He and Mrs W expected to need an income of at least 
£2,035 per month in retirement. 
WPS also noted that while, prior to the pandemic, Mr W mayve been more willing to take 
risk, he was now more risk averse and wasnt looking to take risk for several years.
On 10 November 2020, WPS gave Mr W its written recommendation. WPS said its analysis 
showed that the cost of replacing the benefits hed be giving up was £357,134, over 
£142,000 more than the CETV. Mr W could not access benefits from his pension at that 
time, based on his age, and he had no clear need for additional income or capital from the 
pension. It also noted that Mr W was uncomfortable with risk. As a result, it didnt think a 
transfer at that time was in his interests as he could revisit this when he did come to retire. 
The report noted there were risks associated with this recommendation  including that any 
future transfer value could be lower (or higher). But WPS advised him not to transfer his DB 
scheme benefits.
Mr W retained his benefits in the DB scheme. The insurer later became responsible for 
providing the benefits due under the DB scheme as part of the buy-out.
In 2022, Mr W obtained a CETV from the insurer, which was now his pension provider. The 
CETV at that time was just under £124,000.
Mr W complained to the insurer as he felt this value had been calculated incorrectly. That 
complaint was considered separately by our service under a different reference. 
Mr W also complained to WPS about the advice hed been given as he now felt this was 
unsuitable and that a transfer shouldve been recommended. He said WPS hadnt made him 
aware that the transfer value could fall so substantially and says it had said this would not 
occur.
WPS rejected Mr Ws complaint. It said the advice it had provided was suitable as there was 
no reason at the time for Mr W to give up the guaranteed benefits the existing pension 
provided. It said it had explained that transfer values could change. And in any event, while 
the CETV had changed, because of market conditions making the cost of replicating benefits 
more favourable, Mr W retained his guaranteed benefits.
Mr W asked our service to look into the matter. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He thought the advice to retain Mr Ws benefits 
was suitable, particularly bearing in mind the regulators position that the starting assumption 
when considering a DB transfer is that it will be unsuitable. And he was satisfied that WPS 
had explained that transfer values could fluctuate in the future and that it wasnt possible to 
predict by how much. He accepted WPS had said it thought the transfer value falling by half 
was unlikely, but he didnt think this was unreasonable.
Mr W did not accept the Investigators opinion. He said the adviser should not have 
expressed the opinion that a significant fall in value was unlikely, noting this has proven not 
to be the case. He also says the relationship between transfer values and interest rates and 
how CETVs were calculated shouldve been explained more clearly to him. Without this, 
Mr W says he wasnt given clear enough information to allow him to make an informed 
decision. And his CETV was at a level unlikely to be achieved again and he wouldve acted 
differently, if this had been explained. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Ws complaint in less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats been said 
its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the 
complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS).  And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The crux of the complaint is that the advice WPS provided to Mr W was unsuitable and 
incomplete and has led him to lose out on a higher transfer value.As Ive explained, as part of the proposed buy-out of the DB scheme, Mr Ws former 
employer arranged for advice to be available to scheme members from WPS. Because of 
the transfer value of Mr Ws pension benefits he was required to take regulated financial 
advice before he could transfer. That transfer value was not enhanced because of the buy-
out. While his former employer was covering the cost of the advice, Im satisfied that WPS 
was acting independently and for Mr W when it provided him advice. And Mr W wasnt 
restricted to taking advice from WPS and he couldve approached a different adviser at his 
own cost, if he so chose. 
WPS role, as a regulated financial adviser, was to consider Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives, have regard for the relevant rules and regulations  not least COBS 9 which 
deals with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation and assessing suitability 
and the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer  and 
recommend what it believed to be in Mr Ws best interests. It also had to bear in mind that 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And so, WPS 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ws best interests.
Mr W has said it was always his intention to transfer his pension and access his pension 
benefits flexibly, including taking tax-free cash. And he only delayed doing so because WPS 
indicated his CETV would not fall substantially. Notwithstanding that WPS role wasnt just to 
put in place what Mr W mightve wanted, this objective being set in stone isnt reflected in the 
information from the time. Ive seen a copy of the information WPS recorded as part of its 
fact finding and have been provided a copy of the call in which all of this was discussed. And 
while Mr W was interested in potentially retiring from age 55, he was clear that he also felt 
this may not be affordable and that he may alter his working arrangements instead from that 
age. He was also clear, in my view, that he didnt have a specific need to access a lump sum 
and didnt know if he would or should access this. And he explained the purpose of speaking 
to WPS was that, with so much about future circumstances unknown, he wanted advice 
about what he should do.
Looking at the information recorded at the time, Im satisfied that WPS understood Mr Ws 
circumstances before giving advice - which was in line with what it was required to do. 
Having taken these circumstances into account WPS recommended that Mr W should not 
transfer his benefits  setting out the reasons in a written report. 
Again, although Mr W has indicated he disagrees, I dont think at the time of the advice he 
said that it was his firm plan to transfer his pension and access this flexibly. He was clear in 
his discussions and correspondence with WPS that he didnt know how hed access benefits 
and wanted advice. So, I think it was reasonable for WPS to conclude that he didnt need 
flexibility in his pension benefits at the time.
Mr W did indicate that he and Mrs W expected to require a certain level of income, which the 
DB scheme wouldnt alone have provided. But the DB scheme was only part of their income 
provisions  they were receiving rent from investment properties and Mr W had other 
pension provisions. So, I dont think he needed to transfer to be able to draw a greater 
income from this policy. And I dont think he was likely to improve his benefits by 
transferring.
Mr W explained to WPS he was risk averse. The DB scheme would provide Mr W with a 
guaranteed escalating pension in retirement and provided the option to take a tax-free lump 
sum. There was no risk involved to Mr W in respect of these benefits  the DB scheme or 
the insurer, if the buy-out went ahead, had to provide them. So, these benefits were appropriate to his attitude to risk. 
WPS was required to carry out a transfer analysis by the regulator. And as part of this, it was 
required to produce a transfer value comparator (TVC)  an estimate of what sum of money 
the consumer would need to invest at that point on a risk-free return basis to provide 
equivalent benefits to the DB scheme at retirement. Mr W was being offered a CETV of 
£215,067.50. The TVC estimated Mr W would need to invest £357,134 on a risk-free basis in 
order to replicate the benefits the DB scheme would provide at age retirement. So, the CETV 
wasnt enough at that time to replicate the guaranteed benefits of the DB scheme. And if the 
CETV was invested on a risk-free basis wouldve resulted in him receiving lower benefits at 
retirement. In order to make up that deficit, Mr W wouldve had to achieve growth in his 
pension, through investments. These wouldve involved a greater level of risk than Mr W 
indicated he was comfortable with. And given the size of the shortfall and the relatively short 
time until retirement, it appears unlikely that this level of growth couldve been achieved. And 
so, Mr W was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value as a result of transferring and 
investing in line with his attitude to risk. 
The DB scheme pension also provided a spouses pension in the event Mr W were to pass 
away before Mrs W. This was also guaranteed and would escalate while in payment. And, 
given Mr W explained to WPS that Mrs W had limited pension provisions of her own, I think 
this wouldve been a useful and valuable benefit.
Taking all of this into account, and particularly the regulators position on DB transfers, I think 
it was reasonable of WPS to conclude that a transfer was not in Mr Ws best interests. He 
doesnt appear to have had a need to transfer, he was likely to be worse off as a result and 
the DB scheme couldve been useful to him in retirement. And this was the position even 
taking into account the CETV being offered. So, I think the recommendation WPS made  
that he not transfer  was suitable.
Mr W has said that he has lost out on the higher transfer value by not transferring at the time 
and that he only did so because of incomplete or misleading information WPS provided. 
Specifically, he says he was reassured that the CETV would not decrease substantially.
The written recommendation states that any future transfer value may be lower (or higher) 
should you consider transferring in the future. And this statement is in the section of the 
report titled risks associated with my recommendation. So, I think WPS was clear that the 
transfer value was not guaranteed. The details from the DB scheme were also clear that the 
CETV was only valid for three months and would be subject to recalculation  something 
which Mr W indicated an awareness of to WPS. So, I think he was aware that this could 
fluctuate.
Mr W says the adviser reassured him over the phone that this wouldnt fall substantially. 
WPS has provided our service with copies of the call recordings that it holds. During these 
discussions, the CETV that was available to Mr W was discussed a number of times. Mr W 
made mention that this was higher than it had been the year before. And this figure was 
clearly something he was thinking about. But again, WPS was clear in those conversations 
that what the CETV would be in the future was unknown and it could go up or down. Which 
Mr W acknowledged.
Mr W did ask, in one call Ive heard, whether it was likely for example that the CETV could 
fall by half, although he acknowledged WPS potentially couldnt answer  indicating he again 
knew the value could fluctuate. The adviser did say in response that they thought this level 
of reduction was unlikely. Mr W says that opinion should not have been expressed, it was 
not reasonable, he relied on that reassurance, and it was because of this he didnt pursue a 
transfer. Mr W has also said that he believes a further call took place in which WPS stated even more firmly that the CETV would not decrease. But I havent seen evidence of this or 
anything to suggest the information WPS has provided is incomplete.
I dont think that statement by the adviser was unreasonable. The CETV is an estimation, 
based on a number of assumptions, of the amount of money required to provide equivalent 
benefits outside of the scheme. While, with the benefit of hindsight, significant changes to 
market conditions over the last couple of years have resulted in a reduction in those costs 
and in CETVs, I dont agree with Mr W that couldve been reasonably predicted at that time. 
So, I dont think the adviser saying they thought this level of decrease was unlikely was 
unreasonable. And as Ive explained, WPS had also explained several times, including in 
writing, that the CETV was not guaranteed, could fluctuate and was an unknown. Something 
which Im satisfied Mr W did understand. 
And, while Mr W now says this was crucial in his decision to accept the advice, Im satisfied 
transferring was not something that Mr W had already decided on when he contacted WPS. 
So, Im not convinced this one discussion point, when considering that Mr W was clear he 
wanted advice from WPS about what was best for him, the conversations between Mr W and 
WPS totalled several hours and it provided written reasons for its recommendations, did 
result in him acting differently than he otherwise wouldve done.
And again, the advice that WPS provided to him  that he shouldnt transfer  was in my 
view suitable and in his best interests based on his circumstances. And this took into 
account the CETV as it was. And Mr W still holds the same guaranteed benefits under the 
DB scheme, now provided by the insurer, he was always entitled to. So, has not lost any of 
those benefits.
Mr W also says that WPS shouldve explained to him how CETVs are calculated and the 
factors that go into this. And says that without this, he wasnt in an informed position. But I 
dont agree. CETVs are complex, take into account a number of different factors and 
assumptions and for that reason are usually calculated by actuaries. WPS was not in a 
position to explain all of the assumptions the DB scheme or the insurer would use. WPS did 
explain that they could go up or down. And it did talk about the association with gilt and 
annuity rates, to illustrate that they are different to the fund value of a unit linked pension. 
But beyond that, I dont think it reasonably needed to provide further explanation beyond that 
they could fluctuate and were unknown  which it did, particularly given its advice was not to 
transfer even accounting for the CETV. 
Overall WPS recommended that Mr W should not transfer his benefits and explained why. 
And, in my view, that recommendation was suitable for Mr W. So, in the circumstances, I 
dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman