DRN-2743380
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them with 
a cash refund, after cancelling their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs J purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, 
covering them for holidays up to 50 days at one time, in Europe. They paid £104.27 for the 
policy, which included a discount on the policy of £19.31  to cover them from 
1 February 2020, until 31 January 2021, when cover would end. The policy included cover 
for four medical conditions Mr and Mrs J declared.
On 18 April 2020, because of the coronavirus pandemic, and its impact on travel, 
Mr and Mrs J contacted Great Lakes to cancel their insurance policy and request a refund of 
the premium paid. At this point, Great Lakes said it could cancel the policy for them  and 
offer a pro-rata refund. But this was in the form of a credit voucher worth £78.27, rather than 
in monetary form. Mr and Mrs J could then use the voucher to buy a new annual multi trip 
insurance policy. The new policy they could buy would cover them for a period of 15 months, 
for the price of 12 months, at the market rates at the time of purchase. 
At this point, Mr and Mrs J didnt want to accept the voucher offered, and they left the policy 
running for the time being. However, on 1 June 2020, Mr and Mrs J contacted Great Lakes, 
and said they had decided they now wanted to cancel their insurance policy and receive a 
cash refund.
Following this, Great Lakes said it couldnt provide Mr and Mrs J with a cash refund for their 
policy  because the terms and conditions of the policy didnt provide for a refund, after the 
14-day cooling-off period had elapsed. Instead, Great Lakes said it could offer a pro-rata 
credit voucher, which Mr and Mrs J could use towards purchasing either of the following, 
based on their market rates at the time;
A new annual multi trip insurance policy, which would provide them with cover for 15 
months, for the price of 12 months;
A deferred annual policy. The policy would be for a period of 12 months, and 
Mrs and Mrs J could defer the start of the policy for 12 months, from the date of its 
purchase;
A UK only annual multi trip policy, which, subject to terms and conditions, 
Mr and Mrs J may be able to upgrade the destination later.
Mr and Mrs J didnt feel this was fair. They said they felt they should be provided with a cash 
refund, as they had been unable to travel, and they would not be planning future travel, 
given the pandemic. And, they explained that Mr J was suffering from anxiety as a result of 
the global pandemic, and so they wouldnt travel whilst Mr J was feeling this way.
Because Mr and Mrs J remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this service for 
an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 1 February 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the policy was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs J with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated based 
on the remaining premium from the date Mr and Mrs J first requested cancellation of the 
policy on 18 April 2020, to the end date of the policy on 31 January 2021. 
The investigator also clarified that this voucher could be used as per the options above, as 
well as for a single trip UK travel insurance policy if Mr and Mrs J wanted Great Lakes to 
look into this option. The above offers would be valid indefinitely, but that this could change 
at any point. And, once one of the above options were selected, the new policy would need 
to be bought immediately. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. They felt that Great Lakes position forced them to take out 
another travel insurance policy they didnt want  particularly given that Mr J was suffering 
from anxiety. They felt Great Lakes was taking unfair advantage of the situation  and that a 
cash refund would be best. Mr and Mrs J said they now felt a lack of trust in Great Lakes, 
and also noted that if Great Lakes went into administration the voucher would be of no use 
to them.
Because Mr and Mrs J remained dissatisfied, their complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make, a 
claim.If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling-off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because;
Mr and Mrs J first called Great Lakes to cancel their insurance policy on 
18 April 2020  which was outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. There is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. 
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund 
after the cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives 
examples of what would be considered exceptional circumstances which include 
bereavement or changes in the policyholders health. Whilst I can appreciate why 
Mr and Mrs J wanted to cancel their insurance policy, I dont think their reasons for 
cancelling the policy reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional 
circumstances. I say this because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, 
which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion to offer a refund is intended to cover. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. And in the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is fair and 
reasonable. It provides a proportionate refund to Mr and Mrs J, based on the date 
they initially called to cancel their policy on 18 April 2020.
I think a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
case. I do appreciate Mr and Mrs Js concerns in relation to current uncertainty, and 
that the pandemic had caused Mr J anxiety. But I dont think the terms of the voucher 
are unreasonably restrictive. It does recognise the unprecedented circumstances Mr 
and Mrs J find themselves in. 
Im also satisfied the value attached to the voucher is fair. Great Lakes calculated the 
voucher amount from the date Mr and Mrs J first called about cancelling the policy  
18 April 2020, to the date the policy was due to end. This meant there would be 289 
days of the policy unused, where Great Lakes werent on risk - which equates to 
£78.17 of the premium paid. As this offer reflects the fact Great Lakes was not on risk 
for the 289 days after the policy was cancelled. And, I dont think Great Lakes has 
treated Mr and Mrs J differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set 
and calculated the voucher amount in this case. Overall, Im satisfied Great Lakes 
offer is fair. And so, I wont be requiring it to do anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has now 
offered Mr and Mrs J is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do 
anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman