DRN-2674111
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Santander UK Plc took too long to process their mortgage 
application as their completion date was approaching. They also complain about poor 
customer service, and about a delay in refunding an early repayment charge.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs A applied for a mortgage with Santander, to fund the purchase 
of their new home. In February, they applied to amend the mortgage to increase their 
borrowing. The completion date for their purchase was in March. As the completion date 
approached, they became concerned that the mortgage was not going to be in place in time, 
and Mr A took to phoning Santander every day, several times a day. The mortgage was in 
place four days before the completion date, but Mr and Mrs A complained that Santanders 
delays had caused them severe stress. They had worried that Santander had lost their 
application.
In addition, Mr and Mrs A complained that when Santander refunded an early repayment 
charge (EPC), it had sent them a cheque, and this had caused unnecessary delay. They 
also complained about poor customer service, such as promising that a manager would call 
Mr A back but then failing to do so. Santander paid them £200 for the customer service 
failings, but did not accept the other criticisms. Mr and Mrs A, being dissatisfied with that 
response, brought this complaint to our service.
Santander denied that it had ever lost the mortgage application. It said there had been a 
short delay because its underwriters had needed to check whether they were supposed to 
be considering the original application or the amended one. The underwriters had asked the  
sales team to confirm with Mr A which application he wished to proceed with. This had been 
done, but there had then been a technical problem with Santanders IT systems which had 
delayed things by another couple of days. Nevertheless, the mortgage had been in place in 
time. Santander argued that even if there had been no delays, it would still have been the 
case that the mortgage would have been approved only a short while before the completion 
date, and so this was always going to have been a stressful experience for Mr and Mrs A. It 
had been their choice to proceed with the property purchase without having the funding 
already in place.
Santander explained that although the mortgage payments had all been made from Mr As 
sole account, the mortgage was in Mr and Mrs As joint names, and so it had been 
necessary to pay the EPC refund to both of them. It had therefore sent them a cheque. It 
accepted that there had been some customer service issues, but said that £200 was fair 
compensation for these matters.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She did not agree that the application had 
been lost, because once Mr A had confirmed which application he wished to proceed with, 
Santander had approved the mortgage without asking him to re-submit any information, 
which it could not have done if it had lost his information. The uncertainty had arisen 
because Mr and Mrs As solicitors had accepted the original mortgage offer instead of the 
new one. She did not think any of the delays in dealing with the application were significant, 
and she noted that Mr and Mrs A had been able to complete their purchase on time. She 
accepted Santanders explanation for the sending a cheque for the EPC refund. She thought 
£200 was fair compensation for the other issues.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it, for broadly the same reasons as my colleague.
Mr and Mrs A have withdrawn their complaint that Santander lost their mortgage application. 
So I have focused on the reasons it was delayed.
There were in fact three reasons for the delays in dealing with the application, not two, but 
they still only add up to a few days in total. Even if none of these delays had happened, the 
mortgage would still not have been approved until mid-March, only a couple of weeks before 
the completion date. So I think the process was always going to have been somewhat 
stressful for Mr and Mrs A even if everything had run smoothly, because of the timescales of 
the property purchase and of the mortgage application, which were proceeding 
simultaneously.
The three causes of delay were, in chronological order:
Mr As employer sending Santander letters which it could not accept,
The uncertainty over which application Mr and Mrs A wished to proceed with,
A technical delay due to a software issue.
On 31 January, Santander asked Mr A to provide his latest monthly payslip. He promptly 
provided this. Santander asked for some more payslips in February, which were also 
provided promptly. But then on 3 March, Santander asked Mr A for written confirmation from 
his employer about one of his benefits. Santander told him This will need to be on headed 
paper  and signed and dated. An unsigned letter was provided on 5 March, which 
Santander did not accept. Santander repeated its request on the same day. A signed letter 
was provided on 9 March, but although it was informative, it did not actually answer 
Santanders specific question. An acceptable letter was provided on 20 March, and this was 
forwarded to the underwriters the same day, 17 days after Santander had first asked for it. 
None of this delay was Santanders fault.
The uncertainty about which sum Mr and Mrs A wanted to borrow arose because their 
solicitors wrote to Santander to accept the original mortgage offer in principle (apparently by 
mistake and not in accordance with their clients instructions). That was not Santanders 
fault, but more importantly, I think it was reasonable of Santanders underwriters to seek 
clarification about this matter. They asked for clarification on 16 March, this was obtained 
from Mr A on 20 March, and the mortgage was approved on 24 March. That took eight days. 
The completion date was 30 March.
Mr A has argued that this took an excessive amount of time. But given that Santander had 
other mortgages to consider too, I think it was carried out within a reasonable timeframe.
I have seen the internal emails between Santanders different departments about this issue. 
It seems clear that the bank staff appreciated the importance of clearing up the issue and 
recognised that the completion date was near, and they treated the matter urgently. I think 
this matter was handled properly.There was then a three day delay in communicating to Mr and Mrs A the decision to approve 
the mortgage, which did not happen until 27 March. That was due to the banks software not 
allowing the staff to finalise the mortgage on its systems. That was unfortunate, and it was 
certainly an error by the bank. But the mortgage was still arranged in time for the purchase 
to complete on the agreed date, and without causing any financial loss to Mr and Mrs A. The 
primary reasons for the mortgage not being finalised earlier  and it could have been done a 
couple of weeks earlier  were not matters for which the bank was responsible. So I think 
that the earlier delays overshadow this one in significance.
I can deal with the remaining matters shortly. I think that Santanders explanation for paying 
the ERC refund by cheque is reasonable. When Mr and Mrs A complained that a cheque 
was not convenient because they could not go to a branch to cash it because of the 
coronavirus pandemic, Santander arranged to send a faster payment to their joint account 
with another bank instead.
Finally, I think that £200 is fair compensation for the customer service issues for which that 
sum was paid.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, on the ground that the compensation 
Santander UK Plc has already paid is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman