DRN-3694628
The complaint
Miss G complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a claim she made 
on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss G was due to fly abroad on 18 February 2022. However, due to a UK storm, her flight 
was delayed for around five and a half hours. As her plans had been hindered by the 
disruption, Miss G decided not to travel. She made a claim for the costs of her lost trip and 
other ancillary expenses.
IPA turned down Miss Gs claim. While the policy covered travel disruption, IPA said the 
policy terms required a policyholders public transport to have been delayed by more than 12 
hours. In this case, Miss Gs flight had only been delayed for around five and a half hours. 
So it concluded that her claim wasnt covered by the terms of the insurance contract.
Miss G was unhappy with IPAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Gs complaint should be upheld. She considered the policy 
terms and conditions. She didnt think Miss Gs situation was covered by the travel disruption 
section of the policy. And so she felt it had been fair for IPA to turn down the claim.
Miss G disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss G, I think it was fair for IPA to turn down 
her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Miss Gs policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether IPA 
treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Miss Gs 
contract with IPA. Miss G made a claim under Section 3 of the policy  Travel Disruption. 
The relevant term is set out on page 32 of the policy and says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Table of Benefits for your reasonable 
additional accommodation and public transport travel expenses (up to the standard of your 
original booking) so that you may continue your trip If your trip is disrupted due to:
 a catastrophe or
 the public transport on which you were booked to travel being cancelled or delayed for at 
least 12 hours, diverted or redirected after take-off or
 you are involuntarily denied boarding and no suitable alternative is offered within 12 hours.
Its common ground that Miss Gs flight was delayed due to a storm. Miss G considers a 
storm to be a catastrophe and she thinks that therefore, her claim should be covered under 
this section of the policy. Ive looked carefully at IPAs definition of a catastrophe, which is 
detailed on page four of the contract. And I agree that IPA has included a storm within the 
specified list of catastrophic events. However, the definition also includes the requirement for 
the catastrophe to mean that a policyholder cant use their booked accommodation.  
In this case, the storm didnt result in Miss G not being able to use her booked 
accommodation  theres no suggestion that her pre-booked accommodation abroad was 
affected by the storm conditions. So had Miss Gs flight not been delayed, it seems to me 
that Miss G wouldve been able to stay in her booked accommodation as planned. 
This means that I need to consider the second limb of the travel disruption cover. This states 
that in order for cover to apply, a policyholders public transport (which includes a flight) 
must have been delayed for at least 12 hours. Ive seen evidence from Miss Gs airline which 
shows that her flight was delayed for five hours and 26 minutes. As such, I dont think it was 
unfair for IPA to conclude that her claim wasnt covered under this limb either.
And in either case, I think the travel disruption clause makes it clear that IPA will pay claims 
for a policyholder to continue with their trip if the trips disrupted because of one of the listed, 
specified events Ive set out above. Here, Miss G didnt incur any expenses in trying to 
continue with her trip  instead, she decided against travelling at all. So for all of these 
reasons, I dont think IPA acted unfairly when it concluded that Miss Gs claim wasnt 
covered by the travel disruption section of the policy.
Ive carefully considered the remaining policy terms and conditions. And while I sympathise 
with Miss Gs position, as I appreciate shes been left out of pocket, I simply dont think there 
are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct IPA to pay her claim. Overall, I find 
that it was fair and reasonable for IPA to conclude that Miss Gs claim wasnt covered by the 
policy terms and to accordingly turn it down.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman