DRN-4006507
The complaint
Mr C complains that Alphabet GB Limited didnt include an outstanding debt from his 
deferred payments when it gave him a settlement figure for his finance agreement.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr C entered a personal contract hire agreement with Alphabet for the 
supply of a car. Mr C agreed to repay the loan over 47 months, with monthly instalments of 
£444.98. 
In May 2020 Mr C applied for a three-month payment deferral, due to Covid 19 impacting his 
income. Alphabet agreed to defer Mr Cs payments between June and August 2020. And in 
an email confirming the deferral in May 2020, it explained that the deferred payments would 
be added to the agreement, and this would push up Mr Cs monthly repayments. It said it 
would let him know the details of the repayment plan once the deferral period had ended.
Mr C says Alphabet didnt tell him about the repayment plan but in September 2020, 
resumed taking direct debit payments for his normal rentals, with an additional payment of 
£32.56 a month added to clear the deferred payments. 
In March 2022, Mr C decided to terminate the agreement early before its end date in 
February 2024. The early termination quote said the £370. 82 (plus VAT) settlement figure 
didnt include any deferred payments. The car was collected, and the agreement was 
terminated on 31 March 2022. Alphabet advised Mr C to keep his direct debits open, it 
continued to take the £32.56 payments up until June 2022. At which point Mr C cancelled his 
direct debits as he assumed no further payments were due. Alphabet said there was an 
outstanding balance of £618.82, which it required Mr C to pay, as full payment of the 
deferred instalments hadnt been received.
  
Mr C complained to Alphabet, he thought any outstanding balance should have been 
included in the settlement quote. He said it failed to give him any information about the 
deferral repayment plan and didnt provide monthly statements to show his payments 
towards the arrears, so didnt think it was fair for Alphabet to ask him to pay an outstanding 
balance.
 
Alphabet agreed that it didnt notify Mr C that it would start taking an additional £32.56 a 
month for the remainder of the agreement. It apologised and paid him £75 to reflect this. Mr 
C remained unhappy; he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator was of the view that whilst Alphabet hadnt given Mr C specific information 
about the repayment plan, it had told him the deferred payments would be rebilled across 
the remainder of the agreement, in the circumstances she thought the £75 compensation 
payment was fair and she didnt think Alphabet had made a mistake in asking Mr C to repay 
the outstanding balance.
Mr C disagreed, he asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, I have to base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered the whole file, including Mr 
Cs recent submission, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
And our rules allow me to do this, this reflects our informal, free service as an alternative to 
the courts.
Mr C acquired his car under a personal contract hire agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service can look into complaints about it. 
In May 2020 Alphabet granted Mr C a three-month payment deferral (three £444.98 
instalments totalling £1,334.94). In an email on 13 May 2020 Alphabet confirmed it had 
granted a three-month payment deferral and explained that it would spread the deferred 
payments over the remaining term of the agreement, he was advised that this would 
increase his monthly payments. However, it also said it would let Mr C know how much this 
additional amount would be. Alphabet accepts it didnt do this and it has apologised and paid 
Mr C £75 to reflect this, in the circumstances I think this is fair.
Mr C says that Alphabet should have sent him monthly statements, so he could see a 
breakdown of the arrears, and whilst I agree this wouldve been helpful, Alphabet were under 
no obligation to do this.
 
In any event, Alphabet had been taking the additional payment of £32.56 a month from 
September 2020, and this continued after the car was collected in March 2022, up until June 
2022, when Mr C cancelled the direct debit. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mr C 
queried or disputed these payments at the time and given the email on 13 May 2020 
confirmed that the deferred payments would be credited to the remainder of the agreement, I 
think Mr C shouldve been aware that these payments were towards his unpaid deferred 
payments.
And if Mr C hadnt opted to end the agreement early, Alphabet would have simply continued 
to take the additional payments on top of his monthly instalments for the remainder of the 
agreement to repay the deferred payments.
Mr C says he has previous experience of another finance company including the deferred 
payments in the settlement figure, but Alphabet failed to do this. The termination quote sent 
on 21 March 2022 says;
Your request for an early settlement figure brings to an end any concessionary arrangement 
that we may have agreed with you in relation to the deferral of your monthly payments. This 
means that any deferred amount is now repayable. As the settlement figures assumes that 
all deferred payments have already been paid, you will have to repay any unpaid deferred 
amount in addition to the settlement figure quoted. Please note that you will not pay any 
more than the amount due to settle your agreement. Excess mileage and damage recharges 
can still be charged if applicable on the vehicles return.
So, whilst I appreciate Mr C would have liked to have the deferred payments included in the 
settlement figure, I think the termination quote here made it clear that any unpaid deferred 
amounts wouldnt be included in the settlement figure.I accept that Mr C would have found Alphabets reference to debt collection frustrating when 
it contacted him to ask for the remaining balance to be paid, but I dont think Alphabet made 
a mistake when it required him to pay the remaining unpaid deferred amount. So, I wont be 
asking Alphabet to take any further action in relation to this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, but this decision is the final stage of 
our process, so we wont be able to comment further, and if Mr C doesnt accept my 
decision, he is free to pursue this matter through the courts, if he wishes to.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman