DRN-2915878
The complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua closed and defaulted his credit card
account despite asking for help while experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. I said: 
Mr P had an Aqua credit card. Mr P experienced some financial difficulties in 2019 and his
account fell into arrears. Aqua sent Mr P arrears notices and in August 2019 he called to
discuss options. During the call, Aquas agent attempted to transfer Mr P to another
department in order to discuss options. But Mr P has told us the call wasnt transferred.
Aqua says the call was transferred but Mr P had left.
Over the following weeks, Aqua sent Mr P more arrears letters and notices of its intention to
close and default his credit card. Mr P says he sent Aqua emails but wasnt contacted
further. Aqua says that as no payment arrangement or agreements were reached, it closed
and defaulted the account in January 2020. The debt was later sold to another business.
Last year, Mr P complained to Aqua and said it had failed to offer a reasonable level of
assistance. Aqua didnt agree and said it had no record of receiving a dispute from Mr P
about the debt or emails and letters asking for help. Aqua didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought
Aquas decision to close and default the account was reasonable given the arrears. But they
also recommended Aqua pay Mr P £100 for the inconvenience caused by not calling him
back in August 2019. Aqua didnt accept and asked to appeal. Aqua confirmed that after the
call was prematurely ended Mr P failed to call back. It also said there was no record of Mr P
asking for assistance by email, letter or any other means. As Aqua asked to appeal, Mr Ps
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I havent been persuaded that Aqua acted unfairly in this
case. Ill explain why.
Mr P missed some payments and called Aqua in August 2019 to discuss his options. I
understand Mr P was being passed to another team at Aqua and was on hold for some time.
But, the call recording Ive listened to doesnt show he was cut off. I heard Aqua discuss Mr
Ps account and situation between two members of staff. When the new call handler took
over the line it still appeared to be connected. The call handler spent several minutes trying
to raise Mr P but ended the call when no response was received.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint and said Aqua shouldve called him back. Whilst I
agree thats a step Aqua couldve taken, I think its also reasonable to say the same of Mr P.
He had already called Aqua and whilst I understand calling back wouldve caused a degree
of inconvenience, I think it was clear no arrangement or payment plan had been put in place.
I also think its reasonable to note that Aqua sent Mr P a default notice around a week later.
The notice of default explained Mr P either needed to make a payment by 3 September 2019
or call Aqua to discuss options. I appreciate Mr P had previously done that, but Im satisfied
it was clear than no arrangement or agreement had been put in place when he called. And
the default notice made it very clear that his account would close and be defaulted if no
payment or contact was received before 3 September 2019.
Mr P has told us he sent emails to Aqua and tried to use its online contact service but didnt
receive a response. Mr P hasnt provided us any email evidence that shows his attempts to
contact Aqua after his call failed. Aqua has no record of receiving online contact from its
website.
Mr P has sent us an email he tried to send to Aqua on 1 August 2019 that bounced back, but
that predates the call in question. In addition, Mr P has sent us an email he received from a
third party business acting on Aquas behalf on 12 September 2019 asking him to get in
touch. I can see that business gave Mr P a range of options for making contact but none was
received.
Whilst I take Mr Ps point that he tried to contact Aqua after his call ended in August 2019, 
Im satisfied the business continued to contact him about the outstanding arrears and lack of
payment plan. I havent found that Aqua failed to act in a positive and sympathetic manner.
I agree with the investigator that it doesnt appear Mr P was in a position to agree a
repayment plan that wouldve prevented the default. I have to take into account that Mr P
appears to have been aware his account remained in arrears and that Aqua continued to
send monthly statements until January 2020. No payments were received for an extended
period and Im satisfied Aquas decision to close and default the account was fair and
reasonable.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but for me to award compensation Id have to be satisfied that
Aqua made an error that unreasonably impacted his situation. In this case, whilst Aqua
couldve called Mr P back I think its fair to say thats a step he could also have taken. And
Aqua has provided a substantial level of evidence to show it continued to correspond with Mr
P about his account and the arrears after the call took place. Ultimately as the arrears
werent cleared and continued to accrue Im satisfied Aqua took a fair decision to close and
default the credit card, in line with the terms. Im afraid I havent found grounds to award
compensation to Mr P in this case.
I invited both parties to respond with any new comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Aqua responded and said it accepted my 
provisional decision. 
Mr P responded and said that after his call was cut off he felt discouraged to call again. Mr P 
also said Aqua had his full contact details and couldve done more to get in touch, beyond 
sending him letters. Mr P said he had held his account for 18 months before it was closed 
and defaulted and feels there was a disproportionate level of responsibility placed on him as 
the borrower to make contact with Aqua and discuss his account. Mr P has explained he 
wants Aqua to remove the default and allow him to repay the outstanding balance. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ps comments and points hes raised. As I said in my provisional 
decision, I didnt find Aqua had cut Mr P off when he called. And whilst Aqua couldve called 
Mr P back, I also think its fair to say he couldve done the same. I still think thats the case. 
After the call was ended, Aqua continued to keep Mr P updated with information about what 
was happening with his credit card. Aqua sent Mr P letters its required to provide under the 
rules setting out its intention to close his account and report a default. Aqua also continued 
to send Mr P statements showing the status of his credit card. I remain satisfied that Aqua 
sent Mr P clear information about the outstanding balance, status of his account and its 
intention to close and default the credit card. 
Mr P has pointed out my provisional decision didnt mention his offer to reinstate the account 
and repay it. But the account was closed and defaulted, after no payment arrangement was 
agreed. Businesses have to report accurate information about how accounts were managed, 
and Im satisfied Aqua has done that in this case. I havent found grounds to tell Aqua to 
remove the default from Mr Ps credit file. 
Ive very sorry to disappoint Mr P but I still think Aquas decision to close and default his 
account was reasonable, for the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision. As I 
havent found that Aqua made a mistake or treated Mr P unfairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman