DRN-3737624
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt allow him to cancel a loan within the 14 
day cooling-off period.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr P took out a loan with HSBC. Around a month later he decided to apply for 
a top up loan as he needed additional funds. He tried to arrange this over the phone, but he 
says nobody from the loan department answered. HSBC advised him to apply online.
After he submitted his application for further borrowing online, Mr P says he realised the 
interest wasnt affordable. He says there was no option for him to cancel his application 
online, so he phoned HSBC the next day. However, he says HSBC refused to cancel the 
loan, despite his request being within the 14 day cooling-off period.
Mr P raised a complaint with HSBC who said he would only have been able to withdraw from 
the agreement within the first 14 days, without paying any interest, if hed had funds 
available to repay the full balance. As Mr P had used £13,547 of the new loan to repay his 
existing loan, he no longer had the funds available to close the new account. It said the loan 
agreement forms state that withdrawing from a loan will not reinstate any previous lending 
that has been repaid.
Mr P remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
looked into the matter and didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that HSBC had made Mr P aware of the terms and conditions of the loan and had acted in 
line with these.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said he had evidence for the top up 
loans. He asked that the case be passed to an ombudsman and provided some further 
information to be considered - including a detailed account of what happened, bank 
statements and a screenshot of the application for top up loans. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr P I have considered all his points, even if Ive not addressed each of 
them individually. Ive focused on what I believe is most relevant to the outcome of his 
complaint.
Mr P says he applied for a top up loan for £1,600. However, HSBCs records show that he 
made an online application for a loan of £15,150 on 10 June 2022. This was to be paid off in 
60 monthly instalments of £359. Its records indicate that Mr P gave home improvements as 
the reason for the loan and requested that his existing loan be closed off. 
HSBC has noted that Mr P phoned on 14 June 2022, asking that his top up loan be 
cancelled and for the money to be taken back as the interest rate was high. The notes show 
that HSBC told Mr P his previous loan agreement couldnt be reinstated. There was a 14 day 
cooling-off period, but he would need to pay the loan off in full. 
Mr P appears to have electronically signed a loan agreement for borrowing of £15,150 on 10 
June 2022, where he agreed to its terms. 
The terms of the loan give the right to withdraw from the agreement within 14 days. 
However, it also says: If the loan is to repay any other borrowing from us, withdrawing from 
this agreement will not reinstate your existing agreements. These will end when we sign this 
agreement and apply this loan to repay everything you owe under those agreements.
Mr P has commented that he wasnt able to cancel the agreement when he realised that the 
monthly repayments were unaffordable. But HSBC has provided screenshots of its online 
process. Im satisfied from this that Mr P would have been given clear information about the 
new loan repayments and costs before committing to the additional borrowing.
I can see that Mr Ps current account was credited with £15,150 and £13,547 was debited 
from his account to a loan repayment a/c on the day of his application. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr Ps existing loan was paid off when he made the new application. Given what it says in 
the loan agreement, I cant say it was unfair of HSBC to have refused Mr Ps request to 
cancel the new loan (without incurring any interest or charges), when he wasnt able to repay 
the full borrowing of £15,150 within 14 days of his loan application. 
Mr P says he has evidence that he took out a top up loan for £1,600 which was separate to 
his initial loan. Hes sent a screenshot to show the application for top up loans. This says:
Top up your existing borrowing
Your existing loan is paid off and replaced with a new one.
Youll have 1 new monthly repayment and fixed APR.
Your existing loan APR will change to a new APR, which could be higher. Find out 
why.
If you change your mind, you cannot reinstate your existing agreement. Any amount 
repayable would be based on the total of the new loan.
I think its clear from this screenshot that a top up of borrowing involves replacing an 
existing loan with a new one. The wording also makes it clear that the original loan cant be 
reinstated if the applicant changes their mind. So, I think this screenshot supports what 
HSBC has said. 
Mr P has commented that HSBC deducted £294 from his bank account for his initial loan on 
13 June, when the new loan repayments of around £359 were meant to start in August 2022. 
Hes provided a bank statement that shows the £294.31 being taken.  However, it was 
deducted from Mr Ps bank account only a few days after he applied for the new loan, so I 
think its likely that HSBC had already called for the direct debit at the time of his application. 
According to HSBCs notes, when Mr P spoke to HSBC on 14 June, he was told this 
payment could be reversed.  And the bank statements HSBC has provided show that this 
amount was credited back into his bank account on 15 June. So, Im not persuaded that 
HSBC did anything wrong here.I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr P, but having considered his points and 
reviewed all the available evidence, Im satisfied HSBC has acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman