DRN-3084178
The complaint
Mr S, on behalf of B (a limited company), complains that Parkside Insurance Brokers Ltd 
failed to disclose relevant information to an insurer when arranging a commercial insurance 
policy.
What happened
Following a fire at Bs premises in 2013, a claim was made on an insurance policy which had 
been arranged by Parkside. The insurer declined cover for the claim and voided policies held 
by B as it said that relevant information hadnt been disclosed.
The insurers decision to decline cover and void policies was the subject of a previous 
complaint to our service. I issued a final decision on that complaint and concluded that while 
the insurer hadnt been entitled to void previous policies, it did have grounds to void the 
policy on which the claim had been made. This was because County Court Judgments 
(CCJs) registered against B hadnt been disclosed when the policy had been renewed in 
2013 and, if they had been, the insurer had demonstrated that it wouldnt have provided the 
policy to B.
After receipt of my final decision, B advanced a further complaint against Parkside. Solicitors 
instructed by Mr S said that hed told Parksides representative, Mr R, about the CCJs prior 
to renewal in 2013 but that this hadnt been disclosed on the proposal form which was sent 
to the insurer prior to renewal. It was denied that Mr S (on anyone acting on Bs behalf) had 
had sight of the proposal form and that a signature on the form which purported to be Mr S 
was not his. It was also argued that the consequences of non-disclosure hadnt been 
properly explained to Mr S when the policy was renewed and that Parkside hadnt properly 
discharged its obligations to B.
Our investigator didnt think Parkside had done anything wrong. He wasnt satisfied that 
there was enough evidence to show that Mr S had told Mr R about the CCJs. Mr S didnt 
agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by addressing the matter of the proposal form and the suggestion that a signature on 
this has been falsified by either Mr R or someone else acting for Parkside. This wasnt part 
of Bs original complaint to Parkside, and as such Im unable to consider this as part of my 
decision. Mr S appears to agree that the signature issue wasnt referred to in his original 
complaint but argues that, because Parksides response to the complaint referred to the 
renewal proposal from having been signed, our service should consider this. 
It seems to me that any reference made by Parkside to the renewal form in its response was 
made without knowledge that Mr S was alleging that the signature on the form wasnt his. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that this point was raised with Parkside prior to it issuing its final 
response. The rules of our service mean that we cant consider the merits of a complaint (or 
elements of a complaint) which hasnt been presented to the financial business complained 
about.
That being said, within this decision, Ive noted Mr S account that he didnt sign the forms in 
2011, 2012 or 2013, and that signatures were falsified on these. I havent referenced these 
forms within my findings. What isnt clear from what Mr S says about the forms which werent 
apparently signed by him is on what basis he thought insurance was being arranged, or what 
information about him and his business was being disclosed to his insurer in order to secure 
cover on an ongoing basis. 
Mr S says that he told Mr R about the CCJs in discussions between them prior to the 2013 
renewal of the policy. His account doesnt suggest that a formal meeting to discuss the 
policy and Bs needs took place, indeed suggesting that all of Bs insurance needs over a 
period of several years were handled by way of informal discussions, usually when Mr S was 
giving a cheque to Mr R to pay for policies arranged by Parkside. Mr S solicitors refer to a 
cheque paid by B for £1100 in May 2013 as being a possible date when Mr S told Mr R 
about the CCJ.
Mr S position is that the policy was paid for after October 2012. Its not possible to get Mr 
Rs account of his discussions with Mr S, as he died before this complaint was made. Mr R 
left the UK in October 2012, returning for around six weeks in April and May 2013, and then 
leaving again in late May 2013. This leaves a relatively short period in which the disclosure 
could be made to Mr R by Mr S, as from his account and the evidence of Mr Rs travels, it 
would have had to have taken place some time in April or May 2013.
 
Parkside denies that the cheque from May 2013 was paid to it. In support of its position its 
sent us receipts and bank statements which suggest the final payment made by B in respect 
of the 2012 policy was in January 2012. In May 2013, the only amount owed by B to 
Parkside was less than £50, which it said would be rolled over into the amounts due for the 
2013 renewal. 
I conclude that theres insufficient evidence to support Mr S contention that he told Parkside 
about the CCJs. His account that he told Mr R about the them at the same time as he made 
a payment for the policy isnt supported by the records of Mr Rs travel and the payments for 
the policy  the balance was paid off by January 2013 at a time when Mr R wasnt in the UK, 
so the suggestion that Mr R and Mr S met to arrange payment of the premium doesnt seem 
to be supported by the evidence. And if there was no meeting to arrange payment, then the 
CCJs then it seems to me, on balance, its more likely the CCJs werent disclosed.
Im also aware that in 2013 Mr R had over 30 years experience in insurance and broking. On 
that basis, I think its reasonable to say that if hed been informed of a CCJ having been 
registered against B, hed have known this was important information and something that an 
insurer would need to know about when placing any insurance or renewing existing policies. 
If hed been told by Mr S that a CCJ was registered against B in May 2013, then I think its 
likely that hed have taken action in response to that. Theres no dispute that he didnt take 
action, which I think goes to support that theres insufficient evidence of a disclosure having 
been made.
Im not persuaded that B has been able to show, on balance, that the CCJs were disclosed 
to Mr R or anyone at Parkside prior to the renewal in 2013. It follows that I dont need to 
consider whether Parksides actions following the disclosure were reasonable. 
 
Having argued Mr S did declare his CCJs to Parkside, his solicitors go on to say, in effect, 
that if he didnt declare them, then Parkside didnt do enough to warn him of the consequences. This seems a contradictory argument to me and its not reasonable to say 
that Parkside didnt tell Mr S of the importance of disclosing information when his complaint 
is, in effect, that he disclosed the CCJs but this wasnt acted on appropriately. 
In 2013, when B took out the policy in question, the relevant law governing the policy was 
the Marine Insurance Act 1906. This placed a duty of utmost good faith on the parties to an 
insurance contract. This meant that the parties were required to disclose every circumstance 
they knew, or should have known, which would influence an insurer in deciding whether to 
underwrite a risk or the premium to charge.
Mr S also refers to a letter Parkside sent to B prior to the 2013 renewal which said, in part, 
You are reminded of your duty to disclose any alterations of material fact in the risk since 
the completion of the original Proposal Form, or since last renewal. On that basis, Im 
satisfied that Parkside had highlighted the importance of disclosing material facts. 
Im aware that Mr S (through his solicitors) says his limited level of education means he 
should have been considered an unsophisticated buyer of insurance. Im not persuaded that 
this is the case. Mr S had been taking out insurance to cover his businesses for many years, 
and it seems to me that its reasonable for Parkside to have concluded that as a result of this 
Mr S would have been aware of his obligations to disclose material facts when taking out 
insurance. 
What this means in this case is that Mr S was under a duty to disclose the CCJs when he 
renewed the policy  irrespective of the proposal forms which he now disputes having 
signed, there were previous proposal forms which it isnt disputed he signed for earlier 
policies which asked about CCJs, and set out the importance of disclosing information. It 
follows that Mr S should reasonably have known that insurers were likely to want this 
information and so should have disclosed it to Parkside who could then have communicated 
it onto the insurer.
Im satisfied that there was enough information provided to B (and Mr S) over the course of 
his dealings with Parkside that he should reasonably have known that CCJs needed to be 
disclosed as part of a renewal process. 
So in summary I conclude that enough information had been provided over the course of his 
dealings with Parkside to Mr S (and B) that they would (or should) have been aware of their 
duty to disclose CCJs and the importance of providing all material facts and the impact this 
could have on any policies held by B. I wont be upholding the complaint or asking Parkside 
to do anything more.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman