DRN-4360662
The complaint
Mr L complains that Robert Graham Harvie trading as R G Harvie (RGH) gave him 
unsuitable advice to transfer the benefits from his former Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS) to a section 32 plan. Mr L believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr L is represented in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision. 
What happened
Mr L had benefits in a former OPS. I understand that in 1988, an adviser called on him at 
home and advised him to transfer his OPS benefits into a section 32 personal pension plan 
with another provider  which Ill refer to as provider P. And that the transfer took place on 
19 January 1989.
At the time of the advice, Mr L was 31 years old and employed. He was single and had no 
financial dependents.
There is very limited documentation available from the time of the advice. But RGH is listed 
as Mr Ls agent on the transfer paperwork, as is a named adviser. The schedule issued on 2 
February 1989 also stated: This contract was sold through an independent intermediary. 
Mr L originally complained to provider P in December 2022 about the advice. It said it hadnt 
provided advice for the transfer. And directed Mr L to RGH. Mr Ls representative forwarded 
his complaint to RGH in February 2023.
RGH replied to the complaint. It said itd never had contact with Mr L and that it hadnt 
advised him on his pension arrangements.
Unhappy with this response, Mr L brought his complaint to this service.
RGH told this service that it hadnt advised Mr L on his pension transfer. It said that the 
adviser named on the documentation relating to the transfer hadnt worked for it, but for a 
business which had become part of provider P. It said that this issue had previously been 
identified in three other cases with provider P that had been placed through its agency 
without its knowledge around 1988/89, one of which had already been considered by this 
service. RGH said that itd asked provider P to remove the three cases from its agency. 
RGH provided evidence that in the case placed through its agency without its knowledge 
that this service had already considered, we had decided that the business which had 
become part of provider P had given the advice. 
RGH said it had no initial documents or suitability letter for Mr L. It said it had asked Mr Ls 
CMC if it could forward copies of any correspondence from it, or details of who had called on 
Mr L, but received no response. RGH also said that Mr L recalled that the adviser had visited 
him at home. It said its business was office-based. And that itd never made home visits for 
new pensions business.
Our investigator first considered whether the complaint had been brought in time. She felt 
that although it had clearly been brought more than six years after the event being 
complained about, Mr L hadnt become aware that he had cause for complaint until hed 
seen an online advert in 2022. And as hed complained within three years of this awareness, 
she felt the complaint was within this services jurisdiction.
Our investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint. She said that although it 
was likely that RGH had facilitated the transfer, there was no documentary evidence that 
RGH had advised Mr L. And that even if it had, there was no evidence to indicate what the 
advice was. So she couldnt consider whether any advice had been suitable. And therefore 
she couldnt reasonably uphold the complaint. 
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points through his CMC: 
- It felt our investigator considered that RGH was likely to have facilitated the transfer. 
But had found no evidence to show that RGH had advised Mr L, or what advice had 
been given. It was concerned about this view, as it felt it ignored Mr Ls recollection of 
events. 
- It said that Mr L had said that his adviser had visited him in person and had strongly 
advised him to transfer his pension, bringing three different quotes/projections on 
how well his pension would do if he transferred. He said hed also been told that his 
pension had been performing at a low rate and that hed make more money if he 
transferred. 
- In summary, it said that Mr L had received advice to transfer his pension from RGH, 
and that hed acted upon that advice. But even if he hadnt, it said that the evidence 
showed that RGH was recorded as the agents who acted for Mr L at the time and 
who had facilitated the transfer. It said that if this was the case then it had failed in its 
duty of care to Mr L, as it shouldve known that the transfer wasnt in his best 
interests. 
- It felt that as our investigator seemed to consider it was likely that RGH had 
facilitated the transfer, despite it claiming not to have done so, that RGH wasnt 
telling the truth. It felt that it wouldnt have merely facilitated the transfer without 
giving advice to do so.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I considered the merits of this case, I considered whether the complaint had come to 
this service in time. I agree with our investigator  and for the same reasons she gave in her 
view - that this case is within our jurisdiction. 
Having considered the merits of this case, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr L. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
The documentary evidence from the time of the advice, and Mr Ls testimony, both suggest 
that he did receive advice to transfer his pension from his OPS. So Im satisfied that he was 
advised to transfer.However, RGH has explained that it wasnt the advising agent in this case, despite being 
listed as such on the documentation from the time. 
Our investigator considered that RGH was likely to have facilitated the transfer, but not 
advised on it. But, from the documentary evidence and testimony Ive seen, I dont agree 
that RGH was involved in the transfer at all. Im persuaded that the named adviser on the 
documentation from the time of the advice wasnt connected to RGH at all. And if provider P 
had actioned RGHs request to remove Mr Ls case from its agency, Im satisfied that RGH 
wouldnt have been asked to consider this complaint. 
Even if I did consider that RGH had facilitated the transfer  which I dont - I couldnt fairly 
and reasonably uphold the complaint. I say this because theres no evidence about what the 
advice said. So its not possible to determine whether any advice Mr L was given was 
unsuitable at the time. 
As I noted earlier, I dont doubt that Mr L was advised on his transfer. But I cant reasonably 
say that RGH was responsible for that advice. Therefore I cant fairly or reasonably uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman