DRN-4094902
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost when he was the victim of 
two scams.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In August 2022 Mr K was contacted though social media by an anonymous person who 
threatened to release sensitive photos and videos of him unless he paid £2,000. To prevent 
it being released, and thereby avoid his family and friends from seeing it, Mr K sent the 
money to the scammer. The funds were made via debit card payment to a third-party 
electronic money institution (EMI) before being sent to the scammer.
Shortly after this, in an attempt to have the scammers social media account taken down, 
Mr K contacted a third-party individual offering these services on social media. Mr K sent 
three payments to this individual through another EMI, which were also funded by debit card 
payment. When the individual continued to ask for further payments, and having not 
received the services offered, Mr K realised hed been scammed again. 
The relevant transactions are:
Date Type Payee Amount
29 August 2022 Debit card transaction EMI 1 £2,000
30 August 2022 Debit card transaction EMI 2 £128.09
21 September 2022 Debit card transaction EMI 2 £49.45
24 September 2022 Debit card transaction EMI 2 £96.70
Total: £2,274.24
Mr K reported the scams to Santander but the bank didnt refund the money he lost. In short, 
they said:
The £2,000 card payment was sent to an account in Mr Ks own name with the EMI. 
And so, he would need to contact the EMI about investigating the scam payment.
The three card payments relating to the second scam was declined, albeit later re-
raised as a dispute. They were awaiting Mr K to return disclaimer forms but they 
explained, given the payments were made for money transfer purposes, the services 
had been provided. 
They acknowledged that, when Mr K called to report the first scam, there was a 
misunderstanding and theyd incorrectly looked at a different (legitimate) £2,000 bill 
payment made at around the same time. To apologise for the inconvenience and 
delay caused by this they credited Mr Ks bank account £150.  
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator didnt 
think Santander had to do anything further. She said she didnt think the payments Mr K 
made were unusual or suspicious enough, based on his typical account usage, to have 
expected Santander to have intervened before releasing them. And that even if Santander 
had attempted to recover the funds by way of chargeback, its unlikely it wouldve been 
successful as the EMIs provided their service (that being processing Mr Ks payment 
instructions). So, she didnt think Santander were responsible for the loss Mr K had suffered. 
Mr K disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. He added that while he 
authorised the payments, this was done under distress  as he had to send the money or the 
scammers would send the photos and videos to his friends and family. Mr K also said the 
payment was out of character as why would he open a new EMI account at around midnight 
to transfer funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr K has been the victim of two separate, albeit indirectly linked, scams. I 
appreciate the threat of blackmail wouldve been extremely distressing to Mr K and so, I 
dont underestimate the impact this has had on him both financially and emotionally. I must 
however consider whether Santander is responsible for the loss hes suffered. And while I 
know this wont be the outcome Mr K will be hoping for, I dont think they are. It follows that I 
dont think Santander has acted unfairly by not refunding the money hes lost. Ill explain 
why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that Mr K knowingly made the 
payments from his Santander account. I appreciate Mr K was blackmailed into sending the 
first payment for £2,000, and later tricked into making the £274.24 payments when trying to 
get the original scammers social media account removed. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the 
payments were authorised by Mr K. So, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs) and the terms of his account, Santander are expected to process the payments and 
Mr K is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Santander to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr K to Santander (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity.
The first payment, for £2,000, was sent to an account held in Mr Ks name. Having reviewed 
Mr Ks current account statements, I saw that in the three months prior to this scam 
payment, Mr K made four undisputed transactions of between £1,049 and £4,000 in value. 
Because of this, I dont think the £2,000 payment wouldve stood out to Santander as 
suspicious or out of character based on Mr Ks typical account usage. Ive noted Mr Ks point 
that the payment was out of character as why would he have opened a new EMI account at 
around midnight to transfer funds. But while the EMI account was newly opened, Santander 
wouldnt have known this when processing the payment. And so, while Mr K was sadly 
falling victim to a blackmail scam, I dont think this ought to have been apparent to 
Santander from the payment instruction Mr K made.The subsequent three card payments were made to another account held in Mr Ks name. 
They were also of a much lower value  being less than £130 individually  and made over a 
period of time. So, for similar reasons to the first scam payment, I dont think these payments 
wouldve stood out to Santander as suspicious or out of character based on Mr Ks typical 
account usage.
Overall, I can find no reason why Santander ought to have intervened before processing 
Mr Ks payment instructions. As a result, I cant reasonably conclude that they could or 
should have prevented his loss.
Ive considered whether, on being alerted to the scam, Santander could reasonably have 
done anything to recover Mr Ks losses, but I dont think they could. The only possible option 
for recovery here, given the payments were made by debit card, would have been via 
chargeback claims. But given these transactions were for the transfer of funds via the EMIs, 
I dont think any chargeback claim would have likely been successful as Mr K had already 
sent the funds to the scammers from his EMI accounts. And its likely any attempted 
chargeback claims for the disputed payments wouldve resulted in the EMIs defending them 
on the basis they did what they were asked to do  that being the funds were credited to 
Mr Ks own EMI account which was set up and utilised by him.  
In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr K being the victim of what was clearly 
a cruel scam. But it would only be fair for me to direct Santander to refund his loss if I 
thought the bank was responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. 
Everything considered, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold Santander liable in these 
circumstances. It follows that I will not be asking it to take any further action.
On a final note, Ive considered the compensation Santander paid for the delay in 
considering the scam case (due to the error of initially raising it against the wrong payment). 
And although this doesnt undo the loss Mr K has suffered, I think £150 paid is a reasonable 
amount to recognise the delay. So, I wont be increasing it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman