DRN-3727962
The complaint
Mr D and Mr J complain that Santander UK Plc applied an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) 
when they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
Mr D and Mr J took a fixed rate mortgage product with Santander in September 2019. The 
product had an expiry date of 2 December 2022. Theyre unhappy that Santander applied an 
ERC of more than £7,500 when they redeemed their mortgage in late 2021.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He didnt think Santander had made a mistake when 
it applied the ERC. He said that he was satisfied that Mr D and Mr Js 2019 mortgage 
agreement said that an ERC of 3% would apply if the mortgage was redeemed on or before 
2 December 2022  which it was. He thought that the ERC applicable to the Cs mortgage 
product was calculated fairly and in a reasonable way. He said that as the information 
relating to the way the ERC was calculated was commercially sensitive so he wasnt able to 
share that with Mr D and Mr J.
Mr D and Mr J remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. Mr J made a number of points that Ive 
considered below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as out investigator. Ill explain why.
Ill begin by saying that the ERC was clearly documented in the 2019 mortgage offer that 
was sent Mr D and Mr J before they took out the mortgage product. Im satisfied that they 
accepted that offer and the ERC associated with it. So when Mr D and Mr J paid off their 
mortgage, it wasnt unreasonable for Santander to charge the ERC that theyd accepted as 
part of the contract theyd entered into. 
Its clear that Mr D and Mr J feel that the ERC they were charged was disproportionate. Mr J 
has said he now understands that their mortgage was a cliff edge mortgage in the sense 
that it allowed Santander to impose the equivalent of 22 months mortgage payments if the 
mortgage was redeemed 1 week before the end of term. He has questioned how that can be 
justified. He has said he now knows that very few mortgage providers apply such an ERC. 
He says his research has suggested that other lenders regard cliff edge mortgages as unfair 
and not in the spirit of FCA (Financial Conduct Authority) guidance.
I think it would be helpful for me to say at this point that in order to be able to lend to 
consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with loans made to customers such 
as Mr D and Mr J, there are costs associated with borrowing that money. When the lender 
decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money for, it has to include an 
assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included in those risks is that 
some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens some of the money 
expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains liable for its own 
cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing early, there may 
be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to 
them of consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage 
basis. However, its more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of 
mortgages (of a similar type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation 
will be based on a lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment 
of future conditions. The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also 
fulfils the regulators requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage 
what the ERC will be and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
Mr D and Mr J think the ERC they were charged was disproportionate because it was more 
than the amount of interest that would have been paid to Santander over the remaining term 
of the interest rate product. As Ive said above there are many factors that are taken into 
account when an ERC is calculated. Under the rules, provided the charge is a reasonable 
pre-estimate of the loss suffered by Santander if the mortgage is paid early, it can make the 
charge. 
Ive seen the evidence of the calculations. I appreciate that Mr J doesnt think such 
information is commercially sensitive. However, Im afraid I disagree. Im satisfied that the 
calculations cant be made publicly available as theyre commercially sensitive and 
confidential. Im also satisfied that the amount charged in this case was a reasonable pre-
estimate of loss. So it follows that I dont think the ERC should be refunded.
Mr J has also asked the Financial Ombudsman Service (amongst other things) to provide 
the cost methodology and cost components permitted by the FCA in this area. Im afraid it 
isnt for our service  an informal dispute resolution service  to do this. But its open to Mr J 
to ask the FCA for this information.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman