DRN-2949939
The complaint
Mr M complains Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCRF) financed a fitted kitchen which 
is of unsatisfactory quality. He asks for a full refund of the cost of the kitchen.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For ease I 
repeat it here.
Mr M is represented in his complaint by Mrs M, but I refer to Mr M throughout my decision.
Mr M purchased a new kitchen supply and installation from a company I will call M. The 
total cost of the kitchen was £13,000.00. After paying a deposit of £2,000 the remaining 
£11,000.00 was funded by a fixed sum loan agreement funded by OCRF in May 2019, over 
a term of 60 months by monthly payments of £230.89.
After the kitchen was fitted Mr M complained to company M that it wasnt up to his 
expectations. It agreed and offered compensation of £1500, but it then went into 
administration and Mr M received no compensation and was left with a substandard kitchen.
In September 2019, Mr M contacted OCRF to tell them company M was no longer trading, 
and he felt there had been a breach of contract under the Consumer Credit Act and so 
asked for a Section 75 claim to be raised.
On investigation, OCRF agreed that a breach had occurred and sought quotations for the 
kitchen to be put right. As they were unable to source a company to complete the remedial 
work, they arranged to reduce the loan balance by £7,380.00.
Mr M was very unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to this service. He said 
it will cost more than OCRF has offered to put the kitchen right and he also wants the £1500 
compensation offered by company M.
An investigator looked into things for Mr M. H issued his first view acknowledging Mr M has 
suffered a breach of contract and looked to see if OCRF has been fair and reasonable in its 
offer of redress. Overall, he thought it had attempted to resolve matters and the price 
reduction offered was fair and reasonable.
Mr H disagreed and made further submission he asked to be taken into consideration. 
The investigator issued a second view after considering the new information but still felt the 
offer of redress from OCRF was fair and reasonable and didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr H disagreed, he asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional findings I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with OCRF in May 2019 to acquire a kitchen. 
The contract included the provision of items and the installation. This complaint is against 
OCRF as the finance provider. I explained under the regulations OCRF can be held liable if 
there was a breach of contract in the installation of the kitchen. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) sets out that the goods must be of satisfactory 
quality and that services delivered with reasonable care and skill. In this case that means 
that all the ordered parts needed to be delivered and be fit for purpose and that the 
installation needed to be to a reasonable standard.
The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr M has a claim for breach of contract against the 
supplier, he can also bring that claim against OCRF. There appears to be no dispute that Mr 
M did not get what he originally paid for. The issue seems to be whether the supplier has 
gone far enough to put this right. 
I said I can see Mr M, had detailed discussions with the supplier who also agreed the work 
was substandard and offered to correct it and pay £1500 compensation, but the company 
then went onto administration.
Mr M then has had extensive discussions with OCRF ever since the kitchen was fitted. 
Despite this, they have not been able to agree a resolution that they are all happy with. This 
has been going on for over two years and I said it isnt surprising to me, that Mr M has been 
very frustrated by it all.
Mr M wants to reject the kitchen. The contract has been breached. Although there is a report 
from an independent company detailing what remedial works are needed, the same 
company does not wish to carry out those remedial works. So, I looked closely at the detail 
of the remedial work needed in the quote. It said the work needed included:
300 Larder Gable Gap
300 Larder to be pull out door, bowed
Oven unit doors hard to open
New plastered ceiling
Centre drawer front different colourWall plastering in rough condition
Worktops swollen with bad seal at sink
Wrong sink fitted (Undermount)
Stop cock blocked in with no access
No shelves in sink unit
Doors badly out of adjustment
Worktop joints not sealed or bolted
Extractor not ducted, blowing into cupboard
Chip out of door above extractor
End Gable of breakfast bar, Gap in floor
The total price of repairs: £6150.00 + vat = £7380.00
I said I was persuaded looking at this extensive list of remedial works needed that even if the 
remedial works were carried out the kitchen still would not be satisfactory. I recognise that 
OCRF are saying the finance agreement will be reduced by the quote for remedial work. But 
ultimately, I said I dont think that provides proper redress for Mr M. I agreed with Mr M when 
he says, the independent company doesnt want to undertake the remedial work because 
that will still leave him with a less than satisfactory kitchen. So, I said, Im of the view, OCRF 
has agreed a breach of contract has taken place and Mr M is entitled to reject the kitchen for 
breach of contract.
In the circumstances, I consider that OCRF is liable to Mr M under section 75 for breach of 
contract. Further, I consider that its fair and reasonable that Mr M be allowed to reject the 
kitchen because of this breach and so I said Im upholding his complaint.
I also took into account the amount of time that has passed and the sheer frustration this 
must have caused when attempting to function in a substandard kitchen for this length of 
time. I understand the supplier made an offer of £1500 compensation and to undertake the 
remedial work before it went into administration. I said although I cant fairly hold OCRF 
liable for the offers made by the supplier, as the matter has dragged on for a long time, I 
intend to make an award of distress and inconvenience.
I explained although I appreciate Mr M has obtained quotes for a replacement at nearly twice 
the cost, my remit is to look at what is fair and reasonable. In complaints such as this where 
something has gone wrong, this service looks to put a consumer back in the position he 
would have been in had he not taken out the contract or been unfortunate enough to have 
had this experience.
I said I intended to direct Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited to:
1. Refund to Mr M all the payments he has made under the loan agreement, including 
the deposit. 
2. Pay interest on the deposit and all the refunded loan repayments at the rate of 8% 
per year simple. The interest is to be calculated from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement. 
3. Cancel the loan agreement and remove any information it has registered on Mr Ms 
credit file about the loan agreement. 
4. Arrange for the kitchen to be removed with reasonable skill and care at a time that is 
reasonably convenient for Mr M. At no cost to Mr M If the parties cannot agree on this then they can bring this issue only back to this service. 
5. Pay Mr M £750 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from the interest I have awarded 
above, it must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr F can reclaim the 
tax if he is able to.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond to my provisional decision.
Mr M accepted the findings. He also pointed out that the £1500 compensation was for the 
mess the workmen left the house in and not for the poor quality of the kitchen.
OCRF requested an extension to consider the findings, which was granted. When it 
responded it agreed with the decision and said it had cancelled the finance agreement and 
would comply with the refund of monies once it had sourced a third party to remove the 
kitchen and appliances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both Mr M and OCRF for their responses to my provisional decision. 
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Also, Ive reviewed the complete file again 
and revisited my provisional decision. 
Neither Mr M nor OCRF have sent any new information or reasoning in response to my 
provisional decision. It follows I have reached the same conclusions and for the same 
reasons as I set out in my provisional decision and repeated above.
OCRF has said it is in the process of appointing a 3rd party company to carry out the removal 
of the kitchen and appliances. It may need access to the property to carry out an 
assessment and confirm the date and details of the removal. This should be carried out at 
the convenience of Mr M but within a reasonable timescale.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I direct Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited to:
1. Refund to Mr M all the payments he has made under the loan agreement, including 
the deposit. 
2. Pay interest on the deposit and all the refunded loan repayments at the rate of 8% 
per year simple. The interest is to be calculated from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement. 
3. Cancel the loan agreement and remove any information it has registered on Mr Ms 
credit file about the loan agreement. 
4. Arrange for the kitchen to be removed with reasonable skill and care at a time that is 
reasonably convenient for Mr M. At no cost to Mr M If the parties cannot agree on 
this then they can bring this issue only back to this service. 
5. Pay Mr M £750 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from the interest I have awarded 
above, it must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr F can reclaim the 
tax if he is able to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman