DRN-4353888
The complaint
Mr R complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined his claim for storm 
damage.
Great Lakes use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Great 
Lakes includes these agents.
What happened
In December 2022 Mr R made a claim on his home insurance following the collapse of a wall 
in his garden. He thought this was due to strong winds. Great Lakes didnt think that there 
were storm conditions at the time but sent its loss adjuster to inspect the damage. 
The loss adjuster noted that the wall was suffering from wear and tear and didnt think there 
were any storm conditions in the days leading up to the damage. Great Lakes agreed and 
declined the claim saying that the damage wasnt caused by an insured event. 
Mr R wasnt happy as he thought the damage had been caused by a storm and that it should 
be covered under the policy. Mr R complained but Great Lakes maintained its decision. It 
said that there were no storm conditions at the time of the damage and that the wall showed 
signs of wear and tear which may have contributed to its collapse. 
Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld as there was no evidence of a storm. She also didnt think it unreasonable for 
Great Lakes to conclude that there was evidence of wear and tear. Mr R didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy. Theres no dispute that 
storm damage is covered. The policy doesnt, however, contain a definition of storm. Where 
this is the case, we usually say that a storm involves violent winds, generally accompanied 
by rain, hail or snow.
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, we ask three questions: 
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused? 
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm? 
Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend 
that a storm complaint is upheld.  
So, the first question is whether there was a storm event. In order to determine this, we look 
at weather records and reports  and any other available evidence. 
Ive considered the weather in the days leading up to the damage and looked at data from 
the nearest weather station to Mr Rs house. The peak wind gusts recorded were 26mph on 
18 December 2022 and 36mph on 19 December 2022. This is similar to the wind speeds 
obtained by Great Lakes. These wind speeds are not high enough to indicate storm 
conditions. Ive also considered the wind speeds recorded at other local weather stations but 
none of these record winds strong enough to be considered a storm. 
Weather stations are not usually in the exact location of the damaged property, but they still 
provide useful evidence of the likely weather conditions experienced at the property at the 
time. Mr R makes the point that the nearest weather station is eight miles away and further 
inland. I appreciate that there can be local conditions that affect the weather at a particular 
location, so Ive looked at all the available evidence to see whether there is anything else to 
indicate there were storm conditions. 
Mr R obtained two quotes from local builders who both mention bad or stormy weather. I 
dont find these particularly persuasive as they are primarily quotes for repairs and only 
provide vague information about the weather. Mr R also obtained a letter from a brickwork 
contractor who says that in his opinion the damage was probably caused by strong gusts of 
wind. Whilst Ive taken this into account, strong gusts of wind dont necessarily mean there 
was a storm. A storm is not the same as mere bad weather - storms arent that frequent and 
normally involve more extreme weather conditions. I have to be satisfied that the damage 
was caused by violent storm winds  and I havent seen any evidence of this. 
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only the damage 
caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered - in this 
case a storm. Whilst I sympathise with Mr Rs position, on balance I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Great Lakes to find that there were no storm conditions. 
Great Lakes also said that the wall was showing signs of wear and tear - which is excluded 
under the policy  and that this could have contributed to the walls collapse. Mr R disputes 
this and Ive seen the video hes taken. However, as theres no insured peril and therefore 
no claim, theres no need for me to go on to consider whether it would be fair to exclude the 
damage for wear and tear. 
Mr R has said that the loss adjuster who came to inspect the wall, told him that the claim 
would be covered. This is denied by Great Lakes  and the report and comments Ive seen 
from the loss adjuster give no indication that the claim was being recommended for 
acceptance. I appreciate that Mr R feels quite strongly about this, but I havent seen anything 
to suggest that the loss adjuster was persuaded into changing their opinion.
Mr R has referred to a case study that appears on our website and says that the 
circumstances are similar to his. We consider each complaint on its own particular merits 
and, as Ive said, I havent seen any evidence to show that the damage in this case was the 
result of a one-off storm event. 
Great Lakes declined the claim because it couldnt find any evidence that the damage was 
caused by an insured peril, and I think that Great Lakes acted reasonably in doing so. I know 
that this will be a disappointment to Mr R, but I dont think Great Lakes has done anything 
wrong and Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman