DRN-3797798
The complaint
Ms W, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information Morses has provided, here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
Loan Start Date End Date Capital 
AmountInterest 
amountTerm Repayment 
amountWeeks 
Live
1 14/11/2019 19/06/2020 £250.00 £175.00 34 £12.50 31
2 13/03/2020 02/10/2020 £250.00 £175.00 34 £12.50 29
3 19/10/2020 11/06/2021 £700.00 £490.00 34 £35.00 33
4 15/06/2021 16/02/2022 £700.00 £525.00 35 £35.00 35
Ms W complained and Morses responded to say that it had carried out checks and it 
considered Ms W could afford the loans when she applied for them.
Ms W disagreed and referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of 
our adjudicators looked at it and thought that Morses ought not to have approved loan 4 for 
Ms W.
Morses disagreed and gave reasons why, and the unresolved complaint was passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ws complaint in part and have explained why below.
Ms W didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this 
I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms W had with 
Morses. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she 
took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 4 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history 
with Ms W, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Ms Ws case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say 
this because:
At this point she had been indebted to Morses for around 19 months.  
Ms Ws first loan was for £250 and having reviewed the credit search Morses had 
carried out for her at that stage, then it knew from the beginning that she had 
defaulted and delinquent accounts. The most recent default being relatively close in 
time to when Ms W applied for loan 1. And so, I think that by the time 19 months had 
passed and Ms Ws loan requests had increased from £250 to £700 for the second 
time, knowing what it did know about Ms W then I think it ought to have appreciated 
Ms W was likely borrowing to meet an ongoing and increasing need. And this 
indicated her problems may have been worsening.  
So, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Ms Ws indebtedness was unsustainable. 
Ms W regularly was provided with a new loan a very short time after she had settled her previous loans 
Ms W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan 6 was 
taken out about 19 months after Ms Ws first. And it was for a larger amount. Ms W 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an 
extended period.
I appreciate that Morses feels that the checks it did were enough to show the lending 
was affordable. But I think the lending pattern itself shows the loans werent 
sustainable. 
I think that Ms W lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing at loan 4 because:
it had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ws indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit over an extended period.
the length of time over which Ms W borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Ms Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loan 4 and Morses should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms W at loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms W loan 4.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms W towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 4, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything it has already refunded.B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms W 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms W the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Ws borrowing for loan 4 meant any information recorded about 
it is adverse, so it should remove it entirely from Ms Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman