DRN-2744844
The complaint
Mr B and Miss H say HSBC UK Bank Plc should remove some legal costs from their 
mortgage account because they didnt receive the notification of the repossession claim so 
had to ask for the first hearing to be adjourned. They say it is unfair the costs of that 
adjourned hearing have been added to the mortgage debt.
What happened
Mr B and Miss Hs mortgage with HSBC was in arrears. In January 2017 HSBCs solicitors 
applied to the courts for a hearing about the arrears. They submitted the claim form through 
the HM Courts & Tribunals Service Possession Claim Online (PCOL) service.
When Mr B attended the hearing on 6 March 2017 he said he hadnt received the claim form 
(from the court) or the witness statement (from HSBCs solicitor). The contemporaneous 
notes from the time from HSBCs solicitors indicate that whilst the judge wasnt satisfied that 
was the case, he decided to adjourn matters as it related to the potential repossession of 
Mr B and Miss Hs home.
There matters lay until Mr B and Miss H complained in 2020 that HSBC had added its legal 
costs for the adjourned hearing to their mortgage debt.
HSBC rejected the complaint. It said it wasnt the cause of the adjournment, and therefore 
the fees were fairly applied.
Our investigator initially thought HSBC was at fault due to mis-information that was given to 
her by the court service. But when that mis-information was corrected she didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said the claim form was completed through PCOL and so HSBC (and its 
solicitor) had no control over what happened after that.
Mr B and Miss H didnt agree, and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party. Were required to decide whats fair and 
reasonable having assessed all of the available evidence from the parties.
I understand Mr B and Miss H wanted our investigator to speak to a contact they had at the 
courts service (who Ill call Mr M). Our investigator tried to call Mr M multiple times with no 
success. If I felt that testimony was crucial to the outcome of this complaint I would have 
requested contact be made, but having considered everything I dont agree this complaint 
turns on testimony four years after the event from someone that wasnt party to the process 
at the time.
Its clear from the email from Mr M to Mr B that Mr M didnt know what had happened here, 
as his email relates to the fact PCOL wasnt completed by a member of court staff, giving 
reasons why he could see that wasnt the case. But no-one has ever claimed PCOL was 
completed by a member of court staff, HSBC has always said it was completed by its 
solicitor. So it is difficult to see what Mr M could add to this complaint in terms of what 
happened in 2017 as he clearly doesnt know the background to it.
Instead, what is more important is the email receipt we have to prove the claim form went 
through, and the screenshots showing the information that was entered onto PCOL (which 
correctly shows Mr B and Miss Hs names and address). Weve also got screenshots to 
show what has to be entered on PCOL and I can see the name and address (for service) 
fields are mandatory. From the evidence we have, there simply is no way HSBCs solicitor 
could have completed the PCOL such that theyd get an email receipt  which we have 
evidence they did  without correctly and fully completing the PCOL claim form.
There was no reason why HSBCs solicitor couldnt use the PCOL claim form as all the 
eligibility criteria was met. Im satisfied  on balance - all the information was correctly input, 
otherwise it couldnt have been submitted and the receipt of submission wouldnt be 
available.
Mr B and Miss H have said If HSBC maintain their position that PCOL is at fault, then I 
remain in the disadvantaged situation of having a court fee attributed to me through no fault 
of my own. How can this be legal? Im the person who has suffered financially because of 
this and Im expected to pay for the privilege of faulty systems, again how can this be legal? 
HSBC have admitted to you that the PCOL system was at fault, this does not justify passing 
the cost onto me.
All I have the power to consider here is HSBC (and the solicitor it appointed to act on its 
behalf in this matter). If I find HSBC (or its solicitor) isnt at fault then I cant uphold this 
complaint, and I cant order the costs be removed. I understand the point Mr B and Miss H 
are making, but it is simply not within my power to consider anything outside of HSBC and its 
solicitor. Mr B and Miss H may be out of pocket, but I can only order HSBC to do something 
about that if Im satisfied HSBC (or its solicitor) was at fault.
Its outwith my role to come to any conclusions about what happened after HSBCs solicitor 
submitted the form as that doesnt fall within my jurisdiction. I can only uphold this complaint 
and order HSBC to remove the costs of that hearing from Mr B and Miss Hs mortgage 
account if Im satisfied HSBC (or its solicitor) did something wrong. Having considered 
everything Im satisfied on balance that HSBC and/or its solicitor did nothing wrong here.
Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position Mr B and Miss H found themselves in, I 
simply cant uphold this complaint however much they may want me to.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman