DRN-2780071
The complaint
Mrs K complains that esure Insurance Limited mishandled her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs K suffers ill-health. 
The subject matter of this complaint is a sports utility vehicle. For the year from June 2020, 
Mrs K took out an esure insurance policy for that SUV. She was the policyholder. Her son 
was a named driver. 
On 12 November 2020, Mrs Ks son reported that someone had taken the car from outside 
his home the night before. 
On 26 November 2020, esure said that  as her son was the registered keeper  it would 
treat Mrs Ks policy as void from the start and it wouldnt pay her claim for the theft of the 
vehicle.
Through her daughter, Mrs K complained to esure about that. On 4 January 2021, esure 
wrote a final response turning down the complaint. Mrs K brought her complaint to us later 
that month. She said the final response had been premature and unfair.
Our investigator said we couldnt consider a complaint about complaint-handling. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint about voidance should be upheld. He 
didnt think that esure had acted outside of the terms of Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Mrs K disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account the relevant law (including CIDRA), regulation and good practice. 
Mrs Ks son was the registered keeper of the vehicle when esure asked the following 
questions:
Who is the legal owner of this car?
Who is the registered keeper of this car?
Im satisfied that each of these was a clear and specific question.
Mrs K answered that she was the legal owner and registered keeper. That wasnt correct. 
She wasnt the registered keeper. 
And the name of the registered keeper is stated in the V5 document. So its not open to 
doubt. And Im not satisfied that Mrs K took reasonable care to give a correct answer. So her 
incorrect answer was a careless misrepresentation. 
I accept the evidence from esure that it wouldnt have offered the insurance policy to Mrs K 
at all if she had said she wasnt the registered keeper, but her son was. So the careless 
misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
And Ive accepted the evidence from esure that if she had said she wasnt the registered 
keeper, it wouldnt have offered the insurance policy to Mrs K at all. So I dont find that esure 
treated Mrs K unfairly by treating the policy as void from the start and not paying the claim.
Ive seen that Mrs K complained that esure sent the final response before she was expecting 
it. But I dont consider that I can direct esure to do anything about that.
The investigator said that esure had refunded the premium. Mrs K hasnt said otherwise. So 
I accept that esure has refunded the premium.
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman