DRN-1215366
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly when he took 
out a loan with it for £5,000 in November 2016. He says he was suffering with mental health 
conditions and gave false information during the application process. He complains that if 
the bank had conducted proper checks it wouldn't have lent to him. 
What happened
Mr H was an existing account holder with NatWest. Its records showed he was living with his 
parents and was employed as a social worker. In November 2016 he applied for a £5,000 
loan repayable over a five-year term. During the process, he confirmed he earnt £1,600 a 
month and had a mortgage/rent commitment of £200 a month. NatWest assessed his 
application and as he passed its lending criteria and checks, it agreed to lend. 
Mr H complained about the lending in 2019. He said he lied during the application process 
as he was suffering with poor mental health and was desperate for money. He said he was 
actually homeless at the time and not in work. He complained that NatWest hadn't carried 
out sufficient checks and this is now affecting his credit file and job prospects. 
NatWest didn't uphold his complaint. It was satisfied it carried out sufficient checks and the 
lending was deemed affordable. Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint either. She was 
also satisfied NatWest had carried out checks before it had agreed to lend. 
Mr H has asked for the matter to be reviewed. He doesn't believe the checks carried out 
were sufficient, particularly as he was able to provide false information during the process 
and this didn't get discovered. He is very unhappy as this is now affecting his ability to get 
work, and he is finding the situation very distressing.  
The matter was referred to me for a final decision. And I had noted the bank's comments 
that Mr H had credits of approximately £5,000 in the three months prior to his application. 
The investigator made enquiries with Mr H but aside from speculating some of this might 
have been from his 18th birthday, he was unable to shed any light on these credits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr H is finding his situation very difficult. And I accept that having a poor credit 
history will impact on his ability to find some types of work, and open bank accounts or get 
other borrowing. But I can only uphold his complaint if I find that NatWest didn't carry out an 
adequate assessment of the loan's affordability when it was applied for. 
Lenders are required to carry out sufficiently robust checks to ensure that any lending it 
agrees is both affordable and that affordability is sustainable. Checks should be 
proportionate to the amount being borrowed, and the length of time it is being borrowed for. 
So a small loan used for buying a mobile phone that doesn't incur interest doesn't require the 
same level of check that a mortgage would, where repayments are far higher for far longer. Mr H has argued that NatWest didn't carry out sufficient checks. However, I have seen the 
results of the checks it carried out. This showed that Mr H didn't have any loans or credit 
cards elsewhere. It carried out its assessment on Mr H's declared income of £1,600 and his 
existing commitment of £200 for mortgage/rent. It also allowed an amount for living costs of 
over £500. This left Mr H with a disposable income of over £800, sufficient to meet the 
monthly loan repayments of £134.82. 
Mr H now argues that he didn't have a job. But this wasn't information NatWest was privvy to 
at the time; Mr H hadn't divulged this. As he had credits into his account of £5,000 in the 
previous three months, I'm not persuaded the checks NatWest carried out would have been 
alerted to this - £5,000 in three months is commensurate with earning £1,600 a month. Mr H 
also hasn't been able to shed any light on where the credits came from, if he was without 
work.  The credits are fairly regular, and often of amounts in the hundreds and smaller. So 
they don't appear to be for a one off event such as a birthday. 
Mr H also says he was homeless at the time, and living in a car. But as mentioned above, 
NatWest's records were that he was living at home with his parents. I'm not aware that Mr H 
updated that information with NatWest or anyone else. Had he done so, this would likely 
have been caught by the credit check carried out and prompt NatWest to ask more 
questions about his situation. But because Mr H had withheld that information, there is no 
reason why the check would have discovered this or alerted NatWest to something being 
wrong. 
I'm satisfied the check NatWest carried out was proportionate to the borrowing. Its records 
show that it did an affordability assessment and that the loan was affordable based on the 
information Mr H provided. It is entirely probable, that had Mr H been honest about his 
circumstances at the time, that it wouldn't have lent to him. I know Mr H doesn't believe there 
should be an automated process for assessing credit applications. But I don't think it would 
be reasonable to expect lenders to carry out manual assessments on the many thousands of 
applications they receive. Many lenders rely on an automated process; there is nothing 
unusual or wrong about that. And had the check shown information that ought to have 
alerted NatWest to everything not being as Mr H had declared then I would have expected it 
to do more. But that isn't the situation here. 
I fully accept that Mr H was in difficulties at the time, both in his circumstances and with his 
health. And I accept this is what likely led to him providing false information during 
the application process. But as I don't find NatWest did anything wrong then I won't be 
asking it to do anything in relation to the loan or Mr H's credit history in relation to it. 
I understand Mr H may still be in financial difficulties. There are organisations that can help 
Mr H with this, such as Step Change or The Money Advice Service, details of which can be 
found on-line. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman