DRN-2872334
The complaint
Mr E complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) didnt apply a discount 
to his purchase when he entered a discount code.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr E placed an order through his Shop Direct account. Mr E complained to 
Shop Direct as he says he asked for the order to be repaid over a 12 month buy now pay 
later term. But Shop Direct changed the terms, so the order was repaid over a nine month 
buy now pay later term. He also says Shop Direct didnt apply a discount to his order, 
despite him entering a discount code.
SDFCL looked into Mr Es complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had 
changed Mr Es order so it would be repaid over 12 months. And the discount code Mr E 
mentioned wasnt targeted to his account and so he wasnt eligible to benefit from the 
discount.  
Mr E referred the complaint to our service and said he wanted Shop Direct to apply a 
discount to his purchase. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Shop 
Direct had done anything wrong. He thought Shop Direct had correctly set the term of the 
purchase to nine months as this was the term applicable to the last code Mr E entered. And 
he said Mr E didnt enter a valid discount code that applied to the purchase and so wasnt 
entitled to a discount.
Mr E disagrees and says he would like Shop Direct to apply the discount to his purchase. 
Because Mr E remains in disagreement, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. As 
Mr E isnt complaining about the repayment terms, I havent considered this part of this 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Es online activity when he made his order on 4 April 2021. Having done 
so, I think its likely Mr E may have entered a discount code when he placed his order. 
However I think the discount code was rejected as Mr E wasnt eligible for it. I say this 
because Shop Direct advised the discount code Mr E says he entered was specifically 
targeted to certain customers  and Mr E wasnt one of them. So he wasnt eligible to benefit 
from the discount. Mr E hasnt provided any evidence to suggest he was targeted or that he 
received correspondence from Shop Direct which entitled him to use the discount code. So 
Im not asking it to apply this discount to Mr Es purchase.
Mr E has also mentioned another discount code he says he entered at the time of purchase. 
But this discount code wasnt valid until four days after Mr E made the purchase. So Mr E 
wasnt eligible for the discount at the time. Because of this, I dont think Shop Direct has 
done anything wrong when it didnt apply the discount to Mr Es purchase. And so, Im not 
asking it to do anything.
 My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman