DRN-4079644
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by LeasePlan UK Limited following
the return of the van at the end of his hire agreement.
What happened
In June 2017, Mr M was supplied with a new van through a hire agreement with LeasePlan.
The agreement was for five years, with an advance rental payment of £803, followed by 59
monthly payments of £267. The agreement allowed a maximum mileage of 12,000 miles a
year.
Mr M said he received an invoice in July 2022 for charges of £420: theyve said there was
damage to the front bumper, the sill, the left hand door, and both rear quarter panels.
LeasePlan said that theyd inspected the van after collection. They said they had assessed
the damages against the standards in the British Vehicle Rental Leasing Association
(BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. They explained that they felt all the damages listed in
the invoice were in excess of the standards set out in the guidelines so were chargeable.
They also said there was no provision in the agreement for a reduction in the charges if the
van had travelled less miles that the mileage allowance.
Mr M was unhappy with LeasePlans response, and he brought his complaint to us for
investigation.
Our investigator said some wear and tear may be expected after returning a van which
had been on lease for five years, but she was satisfied that the damage was in excess of the
standards in the BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and tear. She said the damage was evident
in the photos provided within the inspection report, so she felt that charges had been
correctly applied.
Because Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, the matter was passed to me to make
a final decision. I sent Mr M and LeasePlan a provisional decision on 16 March 2023. In this 
decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld. Heres what I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good
industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a van under a hire agreement. This is a
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about
it.
Ive seen a copy of the hire agreement, which Mr M signed in June 2017. The agreement
explains that LeasePlan will be able to claim the cost of actual or estimated repairs. Under
the heading Charges payable if you breach this Agreement, the agreement explains that
Mr M will be charged for any damage that exceeds the fair wear and tear definition set out in
the BVRLA guidelines.
The BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear Guide for Light Commercial Vehicles sets the industry
standard for fair wear and tear. It explains what acceptable deterioration to a van under
normal standards is.
LeasePlan have provided a copy of the report of the inspection. This includes photographs
of the specific areas of damage: excluding the rear right hand quarter panel, but theyve not
charged him for this, so I wont be considering this. Ive compared these to the standards set
out in the Light Commercial Vehicles BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear Guide:
Front Bumper  LeasePlan say that this is scuffed. The guidance states that scuffs and
scratches on unpainted mouldings, like the bumper, are acceptable up to 50mm, unless the
moulding is broken, cracked or deformed. Ive reviewed the photographs and I can see that
the bumper is scuffed. It also appears to me to be scratched. But it appears to me that any
scratches and scuffs are less than 50mm as set out in the standard. LeasePlan said the
mark was more than 25mm but that is the wrong test. So they should not have charged Mr M
for this damage because the damage is less than 50mm.
Left hand sill  LeasePlan say there is a chip in the paintwork of more than 8mm. The
guidance states that chips of 8mm and less are acceptable, provided the base metal is not
exposed or rusted. The photograph shows a paint chip of more than 8mm, and it looks like
the base metal is exposed. So Im satisfied it was reasonable for LeasePlan to charge Mr M
for this chip.
Left hand rear door  LeasePlan say there is a dent in the door, and the paint is damage
within the dent. The guidance says that dents of 15mm or less are acceptable, provided the
base metal is not exposed. The photograph shows a dent of less than 15mm, but theres a
scratch within the dent where the base metal is exposed. So Im satisfied it was reasonable
for LeasePlan to charge for this dent.
Left hand rear quarter panel  LeasePlan say the panel is scratched. The BVRLA guidance
says scratches up to 50mm are acceptable. The photographs show a long scratch that is
significantly longer than 50mm. And it appears that this goes through to the base metal. So
Im satisfied it was reasonable for LeasePlan to charge for this scratch.
Mr M said that hes done significantly less mileage than the 12,000 miles a year in the
agreement. He says some allowance should be made for this. The allowance is a maximum
allowed under the agreement. There is nothing in the agreement, or most agreements of this
type, that allows a refund if the mileage done is less than the maximum. So I wont be asking
LeasePlan to refund any payments made under the agreement.
Mr M said that he didnt believe the marks were on the van when it was collected from him.
He also said he hadnt seen the photographs of the damage to the van.
Our investigator has supplied Mr M with a copy of the photographs. And there was also a
link to the report in the invoice that LeasePlan sent to him.
Having reviewed the photographs, Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that the damage
was present when he returned the van. I say this because the scuffs and scratches do not
look like fresh damage. I also think it more likely than not that the damage occurred in the
five years he had the van, rather than the few days it was with LeasePlan.
So Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for LeasePlan to charge Mr M for the damage to
the sill, the left hand door, and the left hand rear quarter panel. But they shouldnt have
charged him for the damage to the front bumper.LeasePlan should remove the charge for the damage to the front bumper and issue a new
invoice to Mr M for the revised amount.
LeasePlan didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr M didnt accept my provisional decision. Hes unhappy that I said it was fair to allow 
LeasePlan to charge for minor scratches, and he thinks these would be described as fair 
wear and tear. He also said that the marks on the bumper werent there when he returned 
the van. He said LeasePlan cannot prove they were there as the only evidence they have is 
photographs that he said could have been taken at any time.
He also repeated that he feels that an allowance should be made for the lower mileage 
travelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything carefully again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. 
This is for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and which Ive set out 
above. 
Mr M has provided no new information or evidence for me to consider. Hes unhappy that 
hes been charged for damage that he feels is due to wear and tear.
Id like to emphasise that I have applied the industry guidelines when considering fair wear 
and tear. He suggested that LeasePlan are trying to get as much money back as they can. 
But as I explained in my provisional decision, what is fair wear and tear is set out in The 
BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear Guide for Light Commercial Vehicles.
And when considering those guidelines I found that the damage to the bumper fell below that 
standard, so LeasePlan cannot charge Mr M for that damage. But the other damages are 
chargeable as they are in excess of the guidelines.
Mr M still disputes the other damage and says the photographs could have been taken at 
any time. I explained in my provisional decision why I was persuaded it was more likely than 
not that the damage was present when he returned the van. Hes presented no new 
information to change my mind.
Im not persuaded that LeasePlan should make an allowance for the lower mileage. This is 
for the same reason as stated in my provisional decision. Mr M says the value of second 
hand vans has increased.
He entered into a contract with a maximum mileage. And the payments were based on that 
agreed mileage. It wouldnt be fair to Mr M if he was charged because the value of second 
hand vans had dropped in the period. So Im not asking LeasePlan to make any offer in this 
regard.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for LeasePlan to charge Mr M for the damage to
the sill, the left hand door, and the left hand rear quarter panel. But they shouldnt have
charged him for the damage to the front bumper.LeasePlan must remove the charge for the damage to the front bumper and issue a new
invoice to Mr M for the revised amount.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and LeasePlan UK Limited should 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman