DRN-4133024
The complaint
Mr L complains that Premier Insurance Company Limited declined his claim made on his 
motor insurance policy following the theft of his car. He wants it to pay his claim. 
What happened
Mr Ls car was stolen by a potential buyer, and he made a claim on his policy. But Premier 
declined it because it said theft by deception wasnt covered under the policy. And also, theft 
wasnt covered when the keys had been left in the unattended car. Mr L was unhappy with 
this and said Premier had made a mistake about the keys. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr L 
had left the car and its keys with the potential buyer. He thought the policy excluded cover 
when the keys were left in the unattended car and when someone got permission to drive it 
as a pretended buyer. So he thought Premier had declined the claim in keeping with the 
policys terms and conditions. 
Mr L replied asking for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision. 
He said the thief had stolen the key from outside his house and it hadnt been left in the cars 
ignition. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr L feels it to be unfair that his car was stolen but Premier wont pay 
his claim. He thinks that Premier shouldnt decline his claim because of policy exclusions. He 
has told us that hes sold many cars in the same way and hasnt been deceived by a thief 
previously. I can see that hes lost money because of the declined claim. 
Mr L described the circumstances of the theft. He said the thief responded to an advert for 
the car and came to his house. A price was agreed to be paid by bank transfer. Mr L and his 
son left the thief with the car whilst they went into their house, and the thief drove off in the 
car. No money was transferred, so they later realised the car had been stolen. Mr L reported 
the theft to the police and his insurer, but the claim was declined. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. I can see that the policy 
contains the following exclusions from cover:
SECTION 1: WHAT WE DON'T COVER YOU FOR
We will not insure loss of or damage to your car caused by the following:
Theft or attempted theft while nobody is in your car, unless all the doors, windows and 
other openings are closed and locked, the car keys are removed, the engine has not 
been left running, and the car alarm or immobiliser is set (if you have an alarm or 
immobiliser).
Your car being stolen or driven by a person who got your permission by pretending to be 
either a buyer for it or offering to sell it for you.
I think these are common exclusions in motor insurance policies, and I dont find them 
unusual or unreasonable. And I think they are sufficiently clearly set out in the policy wording 
so its fair for Premier to rely on them.. 
I can see that the policy documents were emailed to Mr L when he took out his policy and so 
I think he should have been reasonably aware of the exclusions. 
Premiers file notes say that Mr L had left the keys in the unattended car with the engine 
running when the thief stole the car. Mr L later said that this wasnt correct, and the keys had 
been left near the house and the thief had stolen them. Premier hasnt been able to locate 
the call recording of the first report of the theft. So I cant hear exactly what was said. But I 
have seen Premiers notes and I cant see that Mr L mentioned the keys being stolen when 
he first reported the claim. So I think its more likely than not that Premiers notes are correct.
Mr L had negotiated the price with the buyer. And he said they were waiting for the buyer to 
pay the money into their account when he came to view the car. After he drove off, a 
message from the buyer said he was returning the car in a few hours time. And Mr L didnt 
appear anxious about this in his response. The theft wasnt reported to the police until two 
days later, and it was a further day before Mr L reported the theft to Premiers claims 
handler. So I think its most likely that the keys had been left in the car and the thief used the 
opportunity of both Mr L and his son being in their house to steal the car. 
But I also think the car was taken by deception. Mr L was deceived into thinking that a 
payment for the car had been made to his sons account. When considering these types of 
complaints our approach is to draw a distinction between those circumstances in which the 
customer has voluntarily handed over possession of the vehicle to the thief and those 
where the customer intended to retain control over the vehicle. The reason for this is that 
were of the view that a strict and literal application of the deception exclusion has the 
potential to result in unduly harsh outcomes.
So Ive considered the theft circumstances and whether Mr L took reasonable steps to 
protect the car from theft. As Ive said above, I think its most likely that the keys were left in 
the car. At the time, Mr L and his son were in their house and so not in a position to deter the 
thief. So, by their actions, they allowed the car to be taken without first confirming that the 
bank transfer had been made. I cant see that Mr L established the buyers identity or 
checked his licence to drive the car. 
So I dont think Mr L took sufficient care to deter the theft by the potential buyer. And, as Ive 
said above, Mr L wasnt perturbed at the time by the buyer driving off. So I think its 
reasonable to conclude that he voluntarily handed over possession of the car.  
And so I think it was fair and reasonable and in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions for Premier to decline Mr Ls claim for the theft of his car. I dont require it to pay 
Mr Ls claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman