DRN-2443411
The complaint
Ms G complains that iGO4 Limited unfairly increased the premium for her car insurance mid-
term, then cancelled her policy when she refused to pay this.
What happened
In May 2019, Ms G was looking for new car insurance on a price comparison website. She 
accepted a quote of £1,064 from iGO4 and made an initial payment of £204. Her new policy 
was due to start on 23 May 2019.
Two days before her new policy was due to start, Ms G had a small accident that caused 
minor damage to a third partys car. iGO4s terms required Ms G to tell it about any claims in 
the past five years, so she told it she might need to make a claim to her previous insurer. 
iGO4 reviewed this information and emailed Ms G to say it was increasing her premium by 
£342.70. This was £317.70 for the insurer additional premium plus a £25 policy change 
fee. It sent her new policy documents.
Ms G reviewed these documents and spotted a mistake. The Statement of Facts listed a 
claim against her partner  a named driver on her policy  on 23 May 2019. Ms G made 
several calls to iGO4 to try to have this corrected, including three calls on 4 June. Eventually 
iGO4 corrected this by recording a claim against her for the 21 May incident. It sent her 
updated policy documents. The confirmation email on 4 June 2019 said iGO4 had processed 
the changes to her policy and this resulted in a no change to your premium. 
iGO4 used a funding partner to manage its premium payments. Ms G called this company 
on 5 June 2019 to pay the balance of her premium, instead of paying monthly by direct debit. 
She was told her outstanding premium was £698.33 which she paid.
On 10 February 2020, iGO4 emailed Ms G. It told her, Due to a technical issue, your 
additional premium for the change that was made to your policy was not added to your 
existing credit agreement. It said she still owed £342.70 for her insurance policy. 
Ms G forwarded iGO4 the confirmation email shed received in June 2019. She said shed 
made full payment on 5 June 2019 and refused to pay the outstanding premium. On 18 
February iGO4 asked Ms G to pay the outstanding amount within a week or it would cancel 
her policy. Ms G didnt and iGO4 cancelled her policy on 25 February 2020. The revised 
outstanding balance on the policy was £141.83 and iGO4 made a demand for this amount.
Ms G complained to iGO4. She said the May 2019 increase was due to the incorrect 
information recorded against her partner. This had been corrected and iGO4 had confirmed 
there would be no increase to her premium. Shed paid this in full in June 2019. 
In response, iGO4 said that when Ms G paid its funding partner on 5 June 2019 the 
additional premium for the change in [sic] 23 May 2019 had not reached [its funding partner] 
and therefore was not included in the total. It offered to waive its policy cancellation fee, 
reducing her outstanding balance to £68.41. Ms G didnt accept this so complained to this 
service.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He found that iGO4 
had treated Ms G unfairly by taking eight months to identify an outstanding premium and 
cancelling her policy in February 2020, forcing her to take out new insurance. He 
recommended that iGO4 waive the outstanding balance of £68.41 and pay Ms G £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience the matter had caused her.
iGO4 disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me for my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
iGO4 was the insurance broker. That means it didnt have any say in the cost of the policy, 
which is set by the underwriter. However, the emails it sent to Ms G in February 2020 told 
her that if she didnt pay the additional premium, we will have no option but to cancel your 
policy. That suggests, at the very least, that iGO4 had some influence over the decision to 
cancel Ms Gs policy.
I think what happened is that the insurer increased Ms Gs premium when she notified iGO4 
about a potential claim with her previous insurer. Thats a pricing issue that isnt the subject 
of this complaint, so I dont need to consider whether that increase was reasonable. But for 
some reason, iGO4 didnt notify its funding partner about the premium increase between 23 
May and 5 June 2019. And it didnt discover this until February 2020, more than eight 
months later. I dont understand why iGO4 didnt tell its funding partner about the premium 
increase or why it took so long to discover this, and iGO4 hasnt provided a reasonable 
explanation for this.
It appears Ms G believed the May 2019 premium increase was due to incorrect information 
recorded against her partner, who was a named driver on her policy. So when this was 
corrected, she thought the May 2019 increase had been revoked.
The email sent to Ms G on 4 June 2019 (Confirmation of the changes to your iGO4 Car 
Insurance) said, we've processed the changes you've made to your car Insurance 
policy This has resulted in a no change to your premium. It also showed a zero balance 
against both insurer premium and total premium. In the circumstances, I understand why Ms 
G believed she had paid her full premium. 
iGO4 says this email meant there was no additional premium to the additional premium it 
had already told her about on 23 May. It says the May 2019 increase was correct because 
there was still a potential claim against her. I dont think this point comes across in its emails 
and I dont think this was explained to Ms G clearly enough. 
iGO4 sent us the recordings of three calls Ms G made on 4 June 2019. I think these show 
clear confusion on both sides: Ms G was trying to remove the claim marker against her 
partner dated 23 May 2019 which she believed was the reason her premium had been 
increased; iGO4s call handlers dont appear to realise this, and dont tell her that her 
premium would still be increased even once the policy documents were corrected.
Its clear from listening to the calls that Ms G was incredibly frustrated. In two of these three 
calls, she threatened to cancel her policy if iGO4 didnt correct the policy documents. The 
policy allowed Ms G a 14 day cooling off period from date of inception. In other words, Ms G 
could have cancelled the policy any time before 6 June 2019. Im satisfied that she went 
ahead only because she thought the original quote would be honoured. iGO4s funding 
partner appeared to confirm this when it told her the balance was £698 if she paid her premium in full. 
At this point its worth saying that if iGO4 had told its funding partner about the May 2019 
premium increase, I think Ms G would have cancelled the policy. This means the issue about 
the unpaid premium in February 2020 wouldnt have arisen.
Im satisfied that Ms G only went ahead with the policy because she thought iGO4 had 
reversed its decision to increase her premium. That means I think iGO4 should honour the 
initial quote. In this case, that means honouring the premium its funding partner asked Ms G 
to pay on 5 June 2019. So I agree with our investigator that iGO4 should waive the 
outstanding balance on Ms Gs account.
Finally, theres no doubt that Ms G has suffered some distress and inconvenience due to 
iGO4s handling of this matter. iGO4 caused the problem by not telling its funding partner 
about the increase to Ms Gs premium in May 2019 and compounded the problem by not 
identifying the outstanding balance for eight months. I also think the payment demand and 
cancellation in February 2020  15 days from the email demanding the additional premium 
and policy cancellation  could have been handled better.
Our investigator recommended iGO4 pay Ms G £200. In the circumstances, I think this is 
fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require iGO4 Limited to:
cancel the outstanding balance on Ms Gs account; and
pay Ms G £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman