DRN-3407722
The complaint
Ms A complains about AWP P&C SA (AWP) under her home emergency policy. Ms A is 
unhappy at how AWP responded to a leak at her property.
What happened
In November 2020 Ms A noticed a leak from her boiler. Ms A contacted AWP, who arranged 
for an engineer to visit. Unfortunately, the engineer couldnt fix the leak, so Ms A contacted 
AWP again. She was advised to source an independent engineer to visit and fix the leak. 
She was also told to send the receipt for the repair to AWP so they could treat the issue as a 
complaint and reimburse the cost of the repair. 
Ms A was able to source an engineer, who fixed the leak at a cost of £205.20. Ms A emailed 
AWP and attached a copy of the invoice. She subsequently phoned AWP several times and 
was eventually told that her file had been updated but that investigations into her case were 
still being carried out.
Given their earlier response, AWP treated Ms As case as a complaint and issued a final 
response in April 2021. AWP apologised for not providing the excellent customer service 
they strived to provide. They also said the issues raised by Ms A had been addressed with 
their contractors. But the response didnt mention reimbursement of the cost Ms A had 
incurred in fixing the leak. 
 
Given the delays and AWPs response, Ms A complained to this service. She was unhappy 
at the service shed received from AWP and delays in being reimbursed for the cost of fixing 
the leak. This had been stressful to her and she wanted to be reimbursed for the cost of the 
repair and compensated for the stress caused by the delays and having to make a 
complaint.
Our investigator upheld Ms As complaint, concluding AWP hadnt acted fairly. She thought 
they hadnt kept Ms A updated about her claim and reimbursement of the cost shed 
incurred, despite her chasing them several times. Nor was there any explanation of why 
AWP hadnt reimbursed Ms A. She also thought AWP hadnt considered Ms As complaint 
properly or provided a meaningful response. To put things right, the investigator said AWP 
should reimburse Ms A the £205.20 cost. Because of the length of time since Ms A had sent 
AWP the invoice, the investigator thought AWP should add interest to the sum at a rate of 
8% simple. In recognition of the poor service, she thought AWP should pay £100 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to Ms A.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive looked at the information provided by Ms A and by AWP, 
including their case notes and final response, together with details of the policy and other 
relevant documentation. Taken together, I think theres enough for me to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
The main part of Ms As complaint is that AWP didnt provide the service to her they should 
have done, by failing to reimburse her for the cost of her sourcing an independent engineer 
to fix the leak from her boiler. She was told to do this by AWP after their own engineer was 
unable to fix the problem. Having done this and submitted the invoice to AWP, Ive not seen 
any evidence to explain why AWP either accepted the claim (and reimbursed Ms for the 
cost) or didnt accept it. Ms A was told that investigations into the case were progressing, but 
its unclear why they seem to have taken over a year without a clear outcome (even after Ms 
A complained to this service in May 2021).
Looking at what happened, while AWP sent an engineer to inspect Ms As property and 
diagnose the cause of the leak, they were unable to do so. AWP then advised Ms A to 
source her own engineer to fix the leak and send the invoice to AWP for reimbursement.
Given these circumstances, then looking at the policy terms and conditions Ive concluded it 
covers both an attendance by an AWP engineer and for reimbursement of the cost of 
engaging an independent engineer to fix the leak (as AWPs engineer couldnt). 
In their final response AWP apologise for not providing excellent customer service and that 
the issues raised by Ms A have been addressed with their contractors. But theres no 
explanation or reason given for why they hadnt reimbursed Ms A for the cost of fixing the 
leak (or why there might be an issue about reimbursement). Ive therefore concluded that 
AWP havent acted fairly or reasonably towards Ms A by not reimbursing her the cost of 
fixing the leak.
Ive also considered the other aspect of Ms As complaint, the stress of the delays in her 
claim being assessed, as well as the lack of updates and her having to chase AWP several 
times. Given the length of time since the incident (and her sending AWP the invoice) Ive 
concluded its fair for AWP to reimburse her for the cost of fixing the leak but also to 
compensate her for her being out of pocket for well over a year. In the circumstances, I think 
its fair to add interest (at the rate of 8% simple) from the date Ms A submitted the invoice to 
AWP to the date AWP reimburses Ms A (assuming she accepts my decision).
Our investigator also thought that AWP should pay Ms A £100 in compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. Ive thought about this carefully. Its not our role to punish businesses 
where they havent acted fairly towards consumers, but given the circumstances described 
by Ms A, the length of the delays and the inconvenience she has suffered, I think £100 
would be reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Ms As complaint. I 
intend to require AWP P&C SA to:
Reimburse Ms A for the cost of fixing the leak to her boiler (£205.20).
Add interest (at 8% simple) to the cost of fixing the leak, from the date Ms A 
submitted the invoice to AWP to the date AWP reimburses Ms A (assuming she 
accepts my decision)i.
Pay Ms A £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.AWP P&C SA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we till them 
Ms A accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman
i If AWP P&C SA consider they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Ms A how much theyve taken off. They should also give Ms A a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 