DRN-3169017
The complaint
Mr K says Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118118 Money) lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr K took out four instalments loans from 118 1118 Money. A summary of his borrowing
follows.
He says 118 118 Money did not carry out reasonable checks to satisfy itself he would be
able to repay the loans in a sustainable way. When he complained to the lender it upheld his
complaint about loans 3 and 4. Unhappy with this response he brought his complaint to this
service.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She said the
checks were proportionate for loan 1 and showed the loan would be sustainably affordable
for Mr K. And whilst she didnt think the checks were proportionate for loan 2, she had
reviewed Mr Ks bank statements and didnt find that better checks would have showed the
loan to be sustainably unaffordable.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me. I reached a different 
conclusion and so issued a provisional decision (an extract follows and forms part of this 
final decision). I asked both parties to comment by 9 November 2021. 
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see 118 118 Money asked for some information from Mr K before it approved the
loans. It asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It completed income
verification with a third party to check his income. Each time, it checked Mr Ks credit file to
understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. From these checks
combined 118 118 Money concluded Mr K had sufficient disposable income to afford the
loans. As the lender has already agreed it should have done more before giving loans 3 and
4 and upheld Mr Ks complaint about those loans I wont comment further on them and I will
focus my assessment on loans 1 and 2.
Loan 1
I think the checks 118 118 Money carried out were proportionate given the size and term of
the loan, the value of the repayment in relation to Mr Ks monthly income and the age of the
lending relationship. Mr K declared an income of £6745 and outgoings of £1770. 118 118
Money adjusted his income down to £5000 using a third-party income verification tool. It
increased his outgoings to £3945.45 based on the credit commitments it saw on his credit
report and an assumed percentage of income for living costs. This gave Mr K a monthly
disposable income of just over £1000. I think this assessment was fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
From its credit check the lender could see Mr K had 12 active credit accounts and almost
£33,000 of unsecured debt. Whilst this is significant, Mr K had a high salary and had only
opened one new account in the last six months. He had an overdraft facility but wasnt using
it at this time, he was up-to-date with all his repayments and had a consistently good
payment history over the last 12 months. So at this stage I dont think 118 118 Money ought
to have been concerned the loan wouldnt be sustainable affordable for Mr K.
It follows I dont think 118 118 Money was wrong to give Mr K loan 1.
Loan 2
Here I dont think 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision based on the information it
gathered  so I dont plan to comment further on whether its checks were proportionate, or
not. Using the same approach as for loan 1 the lender concluded Mr K had £395.30 of
monthly disposable income and so could afford this loan. But Mr K applied for loan 2 before
repaying loan 1 - he used some of the funds to settle loan 1. And 118 118 Money could see
from the credit check it completed that Mr Ks unsecured indebtedness had increased
substantially in the last ten months. It had increased to just over £59,000 and he had six
more active credit accounts. The report showed he was now spending at least £3069 a
month on repayments to credit providers.
From this information I think 118 118 Money ought to have realised that Mr K was already
spending a very significant proportion of his income on his existing credit commitments and
increasing this further would mean there was a high risk the loan would be unsustainable for
him and in some way harmful. And this was something it needed to consider  not just the
pounds and pence affordability - to meet its obligations under CONC 5.3.1(G). This stated:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
It follows I think 118 118 Money was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr K.
I havent seen any evidence that 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably in some
other way.
I then set out what 118 118 Money would need to do to put things right.
Mr K responded before the deadline saying he was happy with the outcome in my 
provisional decision. 118 118 Money did not reply. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party provided any new information or evidence I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. It follows I think 118 118 Money was 
wrong to give loan 2 and, as it had already agreed, loans 3 and 4.   
Mr K sent in details of what he calculated he would be owed. The lender will now calculate 
and confirm this based on the instructions set out below. If Mr K has any queries when he 
hears from the lender he should first contact 118 118 Money directly.
Putting things right
As loans 3 and 4 form part of a refinance chain I am setting out what the lender will need to
do across loans 2, 3 and 4 to put things right for Mr K. I note it has already liaised with the
current owner of the outstanding debt on loan 4 to reduce the balance, but it must make sure
what it has done considers and complies with the redress set out below.
As 118 118 Money sold the outstanding debt on loan 4 to a third-party it should do what it
can to buy it back - if it cant then it needs to work with the third-party to bring about the
steps below.
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr K to repay the capital that he borrowed as part of
loans 2, 3 and 4 because he had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and
charges on these loans that shouldnt have been provided to him.
It should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr K received as a result of being given loans 2, 3
and 4. Deduct all repayments Mr K made from this amount.
If reworking Mr Ks loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then 118 118 Money should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ks loan accounts results in there being an outstanding capital
balance 118 118 Money should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr K.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to loans 2
3 and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 Money
should give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ks complaint in part in relation to loan 2, noting that the lender
has already agreed it should not have given loans 3 and 4. Madison CF UK Limited (trading 
as 118 118 Money) must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman