DRN-2770950
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs S took out a PPI policy for a mortgage in 2000, alongside a further advance. 
Mr M and Mrs S paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract 
interest. It covered them in case either one or both of them was off work sick or lost their job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided that Mr M and Mrs Ss PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr M and Mrs S signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI, separately to 
applying for the lending itself. They also set up a direct debit specifically to pay for the policy 
 the policy was not part and parcel of the lendings cost. By that point, Mr M and Mrs S had 
already been granted a mortgage, which wouldve reinforced the fact that they didnt have to 
take out PPI to get their secured borrowing. And Ive not seen any wider problems with 
Lloyds sales process from the time, nor anything which makes me think that Mr M and 
Mrs S were misled into buying it here. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr M and 
Mrs S aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the 
time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M and Mrs S, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr M and Mrs S were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of their existing benefits and 
covered them for much longer. I understand Mr M and Mrs S felt stable in their situations, 
but accidents, illnesses, and redundancies can and do happen, even in situations that feel 
stable, so it was reasonable that they covered themselves. And its worth bearing in mind 
that if theyd fallen behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI could 
have really been useful for Mr M and Mrs S in protecting their home and providing some 
peace of mind.
It is possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr M and Mrs S about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. That, on its own, does not necessarily mean that the policy was mis-sold. 
Instead, the question is whether I think better information was likely to have changed their 
minds. Here, it looks like Mr M and Mrs S chose to take out PPI, which indicates they wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr M and Mrs S werent affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case something 
went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr M and Mrs S could cancel it at any 
time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put 
them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman