DRN-3025549
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the way that BUPA Insurance Limited has administered her private 
medical insurance policy as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mrs G held a BUPACare personal private medical insurance policy. The policy year ran 
between 19 August 2019 and 18 August 2020. Mrs G paid £659.42 per month for her policy.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all non-
essential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was imposed 
by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-19, private 
medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS. 
BUPA let Mrs G know that benefits under her policy would be limited for a temporary period 
while private facilities assisted the NHS, as non-urgent treatments werent being prioritised. 
Ultimately, Mrs G lapsed the policy early on 16 July 2020.
Mrs G asked BUPA to refund the premiums shed paid between 16 March 2020 and the date 
the policy lapsed. However, BUPA said this wasnt possible under the terms of the contract. 
But it did tell Mrs G that it was offering a range of remote services during lockdown  
including mental health support, a digital GP service and other direct access services for 
some medical conditions. It also said that it was committed to passing back any exceptional 
financial benefit to its members  which could be through a rebate, or other means. And it 
said that once things returned to normal, it would commission an independent review to work 
out the fairest way to do this. 
Mrs G wasnt happy with BUPAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
let us know that in May 2021, shed been paid a rebate of £398.24, following the third-party 
review. Mrs G was also unhappy with the rebate shed received. 
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. While she appreciated that 
the policy hadnt provided the cover Mrs G had expected it to, she thought Mrs G had had 
access to some benefits under the policy. And BUPA had also introduced some remote 
services. She was persuaded that it was fair for BUPA to review the overall impact of Covid-
19 and commission a review with a view to passing back any exceptional financial benefit. 
Overall, she felt BUPA had treated Mrs G fairly.
Mrs G disagreed and Ive summarised her response to our investigator. She felt that BUPA 
had admitted liability because itd refunded a small amount of excessive financial gains. Itd 
charged full premiums, even though it couldnt provide its members with full services. Mrs G 
had had an echocardiogram and cardiology appointment cancelled. BUPA hadnt provided 
services in line with its contract and Mrs G felt that it was a travesty for it to make financial 
gains from vulnerable customers. Covid-19 had also been outside of her control. And she 
referred to the decisions of other private medical insurers to refund two months of premiums 
to recognise the impact of Covid-19.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
First, its important that I explain this decision will only consider whether BUPA responded 
fairly to the complaint Mrs G made to it in November 2020. While I appreciate Mrs G is 
unhappy with the Covid-19 rebate shes now received, BUPA hasnt had a chance to look 
into her concerns about that particular point. So Mrs G will firstly need to get in touch with 
BUPA to make a new complaint about the calculation and amount of the refund before were 
potentially able to look into that issue alone.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mrs Gs complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of her contract with 
BUPA, as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Gs policy say her plan is for one year and that premiums 
must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to 
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is 
entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no 
successful claim has been made under the policy. BUPA provided cover under Mrs Gs 
private medical insurance policy from August 2019 until July 2020. It isnt clear whether Mrs 
G did make any successful claims during that time, but BUPA is entitled to retain the 
premium it charged to cover the risk of her making a claim while the policy was in force. 
And the terms of Mrs Gs plan set out her cancellation rights under the contract. These say 
that if she cancelled her policy within 21 days of either receiving the policy documents, or the 
cover start date, shed be entitled to a full refund of her premiums (unless any claims had 
been made). If Mrs G chose to cancel her policy at any point after 21 days, BUPA would 
refund the premiums shed paid after the date the cover ended. Indeed, BUPA did refund the 
remainder of the monthly premium Mrs G had paid for July 2020 following the lapse of her 
policy. Theres no term in the contract which entitles Mrs G to a premium refund if shes 
unable to make use of all of the services she expected to be available. So I think it was fair 
for BUPA to tell Mrs G that this option wasnt available to her.
I also dont think its accurate to say Mrs Gs policy was unusable. Depending on the type of 
medical treatment or services she required, BUPA couldve pre-authorised treatment to be 
carried out at a later date. Mrs G had access to, amongst other things, mental health support 
and other remote services. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if 
medical treatment or medical services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its 
control. BUPA doesnt own or operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members 
use and the requisitioning of insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS was 
something which was outside of BUPAs control. 
Mrs G has referred to the fact that an echocardiogram and cardiology appointment she had 
booked were cancelled. Ive noted though that in her submissions, shes mentioned that 
BUPA doesnt cover these check-ups under the policy. So it appears that any appointment 
cancellation was likely down to the NHS. I dont think I can fairly hold BUPA responsible for 
NHS delays in providing screening services and check-ups.Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
require BUPA to refund all of the premiums Mrs G paid between 16 March and 16 July 2020. 
BUPA initially told her that a third-party independent review would take place to see if thered 
been any exceptional financial benefit to it as a result of Covid-19, once itd had the chance 
to assess the impact of Covid-19 on claims. If so, then it committed to passing back any 
difference to its members by way of a refund or other appropriate method. I dont think this 
was an unfair position for BUPA to take. I say that because it agreed to pass on any unusual 
financial benefits to its members to recognise the impact Covid-19 had had on their ability to 
use their policies as usual. 
I appreciate that Mrs G has now received a rebate following this process, which shes 
unhappy with. As Ive set out above, shell need to complain first to BUPA about that issue. 
Id also add that it was down to each individual insurer to make a commercial decision as to 
how to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic and what, if any, action to take. I sympathise with 
Mrs Gs position, but Im satisfied that BUPA treated her fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman