DRN-3720871
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complains that Age Partnership Limited didnt treat Mr C fairly when it 
gave him advice in respect of three equity release mortgages. Further, the estate considers 
that Age Partnership ought to have done more when he approached it for a fourth 
application, knowing that Mr C was likely the victim of a scam.
What happened
From July 2018, Age Partnership gave Mr C mortgage advice. It recommended that Mr C 
should take out the following equity release mortgages:
Application 1 July 2018, £50,000 to buy a new car (£30,000) and for home 
improvements (£20,000).
Application 2  February 2019, £30,000 to repay unsecured credit card 
debts.
Application 3  April 2019, £40,920 (including fees) to update his kitchen (£15,000), 
update his bathroom (£10,000) to redecorate (£5,000) and gifts for his grandchildren 
(£10,000).
In July 2019, Mr C contacted Age Partnership (application 4). He told it that he needed to 
borrow around £60,000. When asked about the purpose of the borrowing, Mr C told Age 
Partnership that he needed to pay a tax bill so that funds hed invested could be released. 
Age Partnership said that it sounded like Mr C was the victim of a scam. It didnt 
recommend another mortgage. But Mr C went to another broker (broker J) and was able to 
obtain further lifetime mortgages from the same lender.
The estate of Mr C complains about the advice that Age Partnership gave Mr C and that it 
should have told the lender about its concerns following application 4.
I issued a provisional decision. I said I was intending to uphold the complaint in part. My 
provisional findings were, in summary:
Age Partnership acted fairly and reasonably in recommending the mortgages in 
applications 1 and 2.
It is unusual to see a borrower look to take out three equity release mortgages in under 
a year. I think a broker acting reasonably ought to have had concerns about this. It 
could be a sign of financial difficulty, financial mismanagement or that the borrower was 
a victim of a scam or coercive behaviour. 
In view of what Age Partnership knew about Mr Cs circumstances it would have been 
reasonable for it to recommend that Mr C sought independent legal advice. While Mr C 
might have rejected that advice, it demonstrated that the relevant standards might bot 
have been at the forefront of Age Partnerships considerations.
Mr C did not merely say that he was expecting money from a court case  it was a 
court case in America relating to shares. Looking at what Age Partnership knew about 
Mr Cs circumstances that seems to me to be an unusual thing for him to say. He had 
not indicated that he held any other shares or investments. Yet, hed told it that he was 
involved in what on the face of it was a relatively complex legal case regarding a 
significant amount of money.
I couldnt see that Age Partnership had asked Mr C why he didnt disclose the credit 
card debt in application 2 after its compliance department recommended it to do so. 
Although it was discussed in an earlier phone call, I couldnt see that Mr C said that he 
didnt think he had to disclose it as it wasnt being repaid. I noted the interest rate Mr C 
said he was paying (20%) on the credit cards was the same in applications 2 and 3  
so it wasnt reasonable for Age Partnership to understand that he had paid off the credit 
cards with the higher interest rates  Mr C had told it that the interest rate was the 
same on the credit cards he had repaid and the ones he hadnt..
Mr C did not have a clear idea what he wanted the money for when he spoke to Age 
Partnership on 8 April 2019. It was inappropriate for Age Partnership to suggest other 
things Mr C could borrow money for. Age Partnership was recommending a mortgage 
that was suitable for Mr Cs needs and circumstances. It is unusual in my experience 
for a borrower to make such significant changes to their objectives (partially based on 
what Age Partnership had said) in one phone call during the advice process. I dont 
consider it was reasonable for Age Partnership to consider that was a sound basis on 
which to give advice. There is a wide variety of legitimate reasons for a borrower to 
release equity from their home. But that is something that they will have thought about 
and costed beforehand. In other words, it is for the borrower to approach the broker 
with their needs and objectives. It is not for the broker to put forward new needs and 
objectives that the borrower had not thought about beforehand.
If Mr C did have a total of £55,000 of credit card debt at the time of application 
2, then his minimum payment would likely to have been £1,650 (3%). So the 
expenditure Mr C declared could not have been correct. That should have been 
apparent to Age Partnership.
I agree that there might not be any duty on Mr C to tell Age Partnership about 
all of his debt. But to give advice it was required to take reasonable steps to 
gather information about a borrowers circumstances. There is a reasonable 
expectation that a borrower acting in good faith will disclose all relevant 
information. That would include a credit card debt of £25,000. So the fact that 
Mr C had not disclosed that information would cast doubt on the information Mr 
C had provided  and wasnt a reasonable basis on which to give advice. While 
that might not have been apparent to Age Partnership during application 2, I 
think by the time application 3 was made it ought reasonably to have had cause 
for concern:
oIt was Mr Cs third equity release mortgage in under a year.
oMr C had withheld relevant information about his finances in a previous 
application.
oThat not only that Mr C had told it that he was expecting money from a 
court case in America  but that was in relation to a complex share deal, 
that on the face of it was out of character for Mr C.
oI also note that during the phone calls Mr C expresses that he wants the 
transaction to complete quickly. Bearing in mind his stated needs and 
objectives there was no reason for any urgency.
oI considered that if Age Partnership had acted fairly it would have declined to 
recommend that Mr C take out another mortgage.
If Age Partnership had declined to give Mr C advice in respect of application 3 it 
was likely that he would have approached another broker and that he would 
have given it the same information he gave Age Partnership. I said that 
because that is what Mr C did when Age Partnership declined to deal with him 
in application 4.
If Mr C had approached another broker in respect of application 3 he would have 
told it:
oHe was expecting money from a court case in America  but that was in 
relation to a complex share deal that, on the face of it, was out of character 
for Mr C.
oMr C wanted to borrow £25,000 for redecorating (amongst other things).
I dont consider that another broker acting fairly could have recommended that Mr C 
take out an equity release mortgage on that basis. I say that as the background to the 
court case was suspicious and would warrant further investigation. Age Partnership has 
told us it was unlikely that Mr C would have given any information relating to the court 
case. So its unlikely that Mr C would have produced evidence to show that the court 
case was legitimate.
Age Partnership identified that the amount Mr C wanted to raise for decorating was 
excessive. Its unlikely that a broker acting fairly and reasonably would have accepted 
that as a genuine objective without seeking further proof of any revised plans and the 
relevant costs. Overall, I consider that if Mr C sought advice from another broker and 
gave it the information he did to Age Partnership in respect of application 3, another 
broker, acting fairly and reasonably, would not have recommended that application 3 go 
ahead.
In respect of application 4, the Equity Release Councils guidance said that it would 
encourage advisers to notify lenders if they are made aware of trigger points or life 
events. They give a non-exhaustive list of examples of trigger points and that included: 
where the period which has elapsed since the original advice could be an indicator that 
the customer has not fully understood the implications of the original contract, or possibly 
not been advised correctly or is being subject to some coercion by a third party; where 
there was known or perceived vulnerability, capacity or coercion issues. The guidance 
went on to say in some cases, it would not be prudent to continue with the drawdown 
request. However, where it is identified that there is a vulnerability or other issue, it may 
be necessary to refer to relevant sources of support.
I thought it was difficult for Age Partnership to argue that it was reasonable for it not to 
tell the lender about its concerns. It had already recommended three equity release 
mortgages to Mr C. It (correctly) declined to recommend a fourth mortgage because it 
thought Mr C had been the victim of a scam. Age Partnership should have told the lender 
about its concerns.
Im not proposing an award for this part of the complaint. I am satisfied that there was an 
omission by Age Partnership in not passing on its concerns to the lender. But Mr C went 
on to receive advice from broker J to take out further borrowing. It seems to me that the 
cause of those further loans was the advice received from broker J. While there was a 
clear failing by Age Partnership, I dont consider it would be fair for me to say that it 
should compensate Mr C for any financial loss where that came about because of the 
advice given by broker J. I understand that Mr Cs estate has settled its complaint about broker J. It doesnt follow that it would be fair for me to say that Age Partnership should 
make up the difference.
I found that Age Partnership didnt act fairly or reasonably in recommending that Mr C 
take out the equity release mortgage in respect of application 3. I also found that it is 
likely that Mr C would have given similar objectives to another broker and that no broker 
acting fairly or reasonably could have recommended a mortgage on the basis. It follows 
that Mr C would not have taken the mortgage in respect of application 3 had Age 
Partnership acted fairly and reasonably.
We have evidence to show that Mr C was a victim of a scam and that he paid the 
proceeds of the equity release mortgages to the scammers. I am satisfied that he and his 
estate suffered a financial loss because of the advice Mr C received in respect of 
application 3.
The starting point is for Age Partnership to pay Mr Cs estate the amount raised under 
application 3 plus any associated interest, fees and charges. In saying that, we know that 
Mr C had received a number of warnings over the years the hed received number of 
warnings that he was the victim of a scam from relatives, the police and Action Fraud 
over a number of years. And of course, Age Partnership told Mr C that he was the victim 
of a scam Mr C went on to raise more money to pay to the fraudsters.
Mr C continued to send money to the fraudsters. In the case of application 3 he was 
advised to take out an equity release mortgage by Age Partnership This loss would not 
have come about had Mr C not been advised to do so by Age Partnership  and I dont 
consider any competent adviser could have recommended Mr C take the mortgage in 
application 3. But in view of the warnings that Mr C had received I think it is reasonable 
for his estate to take some responsibility for those decisions. Ive taken into account that 
Mr C received advice  and that he was clearly taken in by the fraud. But I consider it 
would be fair and reasonable to deduct 25% of the above total to reflect Mr Cs 
contribution to what happened.
I proposed that Age Partnership should:
Work out the total amount that Mr Cs estate had to pay to redeem the part of the
mortgage that came about because of application 3 (capital and interest), plus any fees
paid upfront or added to the mortgage.
Pay Mr Cs estate 75% of that amount.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the above amount from the date the mortgage was
repaid until date of settlement.
Age Partnership did not accept my provisional findings. It made a number of points, 
including:
Mr Cs objectives in each application were entirely plausible.
Had Mr C suggested that he wanted a reserve facility then he would not have required 
further financial advice to access additional funds. As there was no requirement for 
additional funds, Age Partnership correctly recommended that no reserve facility was 
put in place. That allowed it to request further information during applications 3 and 4.
Age Partnership recognised that the number of applications in quick succession and 
correctly followed its internal procedures by referring the matter to its compliance 
department. The compliance department said that Mr C should be asked to clarify why he needed additional funds so soon after the previous application. When it spoke to Mr 
C he said he was expecting £50,000 from a court case in America but was uncertain 
when hed receive that money. He wanted to release further equity so he could achieve 
his objectives sooner.
It is quite common for people of retirement age to have interest in investments. Mr Cs 
property was valued at £700,000 and the £50,000 he was expecting from the court case 
wasnt automatically considered to be a significant sum. While he did say the shares 
were held overseas, this would not automatically be assumed to be a scam. It wouldnt 
have been appropriate to recommend that Mr C should wait until he received those 
funds as he didnt know when hed get that money.
Mr Cs objectives in the first three applications were home improvements, buying a new 
car, repaying debt and a gift for his grandchildren  all of which are objectives that are 
consistent with someone who has retired.
The guidance from the Equity Release Council on legal advice say that it would not be 
appropriate to make this a requirement in every case, but that Providers should make 
their own decisions, having regard to a number of factors and circumstances.
While the amount of borrowing was higher in application 3 than in application 2 and Mr 
C had made a number of applications in a short space of time, as his objectives were 
different from previous applications and hed given credible explanations why he 
needed the funds, this wasnt a cause for concern.
Age Partnership did ask Mr C why he hadnt disclosed the £25,000 of credit card debt in 
a phone call on 8 April 2019 and he said it wasnt mentioned because he never 
intended to repay it from the proceeds of the equity release mortgage. Its compliance 
department subsequently said that it should clarify why this wasnt disclosed  but Age 
Partnership has been unable to find any evidence this was revisited or discussed 
further.
Knowing what we know now, Age Partnership acknowledged that its remarks to Mr C 
about the proposed decoration of his house could be perceived as leading, at the time 
of advice when there was insufficient information there was a potential scam, it 
attempted to understand how Mr C had arrived at a figure of £25,000 by gathering 
further information about the extent of the home improvements he wished to carry out.
At the time of application 2, Age Partnership was told Mr C had £30,000 of debt. During 
application 3 it was told that there was an additional £25,000 that wasnt previously 
disclosed. As Age Partnership believed Mr C had freed up around £1,000 a month by 
repaying debt in application 2, it was agreed hed use those funds to pay down the 
additional funds. Therefore there would not have been any additional surplus income as 
a result of the previous monthly payment.
No affordability assessment is required with a lifetime mortgage as there is no monthly 
payment. The recommendation was based on Mr Cs requirements, preferences and 
priorities at the time. As he said he wanted to meet his objectives now and not in the 
future it is likely that a recommendation to use any disposable or surplus income 
established as part of a fact find as an alternative to equity release would have been 
rejected by Mr C.
If Age Partnership had not recommended the mortgage that came about from 
application 3 and Mr C had gone to another broker, the information about the court case 
in America wasnt enough to indicate fraudulent activity. And when Age Partnership declined to offer advice in application 4, broker J recommended a mortgage based on 
the same information that Age Partnership had. So it was unable to agree that another 
broker would not have recommended a lifetime mortgager to Mr C based on the 
information presented in application 3.
Age Partnership expected the lender to have its own processes in place to identify 
where a number of applications had been submitted in quick succession. 
While Age Partnership could have raised concerns with the lender following application 
4, it had already been raised on a number of occasions with Mr C by family members, 
the police and Action Fraud. This suggests that Mr Cs family were better informed 
about this situation than Age Partnership and additional measures should have been 
taken to protect him from the scam.
While certain details may not have been identified as being inaccurate, such as the 
expenditure figures between applications 2 and 3, this would not lead to the assumption 
that an individual was being scammed unless there is additional knowledge of events in 
the background, which Age Partnership didnt have.
Age Partnership didnt consider the number of applications in a short period of time 
were a concern as Mr C was able to explain why he needed the funds.
Mr C was an individual who despite multiple warnings continued to apply for funds and 
send them to scammers. Having all the information we have now paints a different 
picture of the circumstances surrounding application 3. But at the time of advice it isnt 
appropriate to conclude that Age Partnership should not have proceeded with the 
application.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Application 3
Ive thought very carefully about the outcome to this case. I agree it is important not to apply 
hindsight to my consideration of this complaint. I accept that Age Partnership would not have 
known everything that we know now. I am only determining what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint in respect of the advice, based 
on the information that was available to Age Partnership at the time of the advice.
Age Partnership was giving Mr C advice. It wasnt for it merely to give Mr C what he wanted. 
It could only recommend a lifetime mortgage to Mr C if it was appropriate for his stated 
needs and circumstances. But it recognises that it should take steps to identify where a 
consumer seeking advice might be the victim of a scam and decline to offer advice if that is 
the case. That is what it did in application 4. 
The FCAs principles required Age Partnership to conduct its business with due skill care 
and diligence, and to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. I 
also consider it was good industry practice at the time of the advice for businesses to look 
out for warning signs that a consumer may be the victim of financial abuse  including being 
scammed in the way that Mr C was.
Application 3 was Mr Cs third application for a lifetime mortgage in under a year. Age 
Partnership said it recognised the number of applications from Mr C in a short space of time and referred the matter to its compliance department. I agree this was a reasonable step for 
it to take. The compliance department said that the adviser should ask Mr C why he had not 
previously disclosed £25,000 of credit card debt, obtain quotes for his home improvements 
and be offered a face to face appointment. Age Partnership has accepted, that while the 
point about the credit card debt was dealt with in an earlier phone call, it was not followed up 
after the compliance departments advice.
Im not sure the position regarding the outgoings in applications 2 and 3 is as clear as Age 
Partnership says. But this point does not make a difference to my findings. Nor does the 
point about whether Mr C should have been advised to seek independent legal advice. 
Age Partnership was right to ask Mr C why he couldnt wait for the outcome of the court 
case. I think any broker acting reasonably ought to have done so. Mr C said in response:
I had been expecting a payment from a court case that was running in America and the 
money simply hasnt turned up and I dont know when Ill get it. It is still promised but I 
dont know when it might come and I just dont really want to have an uncertainty in my 
mind Id like to get on with thingsit would be about £50,000it was some sort of share 
acquisition thing they were buying our shares but there were problems with the lawyers in 
America and somebody else has gone to court about it and its taking ages I just want to 
get on with it.
Age Partnership said it was quite common for people of retirement age to have interest in 
investments. Mr Cs property was valued at £700,000 and the £50,000 he was expecting 
from the court case wasnt automatically considered to be a significant sum. While he did 
say the shares were held overseas, it wouldnt automatically assume that meant it was a 
scam. It wouldnt have been appropriate to recommend that Mr C should wait until he 
received those funds as he didnt know when hed get that money.
I agree that it wouldnt necessarily be unusual for a someone who had retired to have 
investments. What is more unusual is that those investments were held abroad, the money 
hadnt turned up as expected and was now subject to an ongoing dispute in court. If Age 
Partnership understood that Mr C did hold shares, it isnt clear why he couldnt just sell 
them  unless they werent conventional shares that were traded on an open market. And if 
they werent, that in itself might be also unusual.
I consider that Age Partnership ought to have carried out further enquiries when Mr C told it 
about the court case relating to shares. I accept that there will be consumers who hold 
straightforward investments where it is reasonable for a broker to accept what they say at 
face value. 
Putting aside the other information Age Partnership had, I consider a broker presented with 
the information Mr C gave here ought to have asked for more information from Mr C about 
the shares and the court case. I say that because the combination of an overseas share 
purchase, broken promises and a dispute about the shares is not in line with someone who 
holds a conventional investment. In fact, those things are all features of share sale and 
fraud recovery frauds. Elderly people are often targeted in such scams.
If Mr C had been asked to produce evidence to show the shares and the progress of the 
court case, as I see it there were two possibilities:
1) He refused to produce the evidence.
2) He produced the paperwork he had. In either case I dont see how Age Partnership could reasonably recommend that Mr C 
should go ahead with a lifetime mortgage. If Mr C refused to produce any evidence, then it 
couldnt satisfy itself that Mr C had a genuine need for the funds  both in the respect that it 
would indicate he was hiding something and that it wasnt a sound basis on which to give 
advice if it wasnt clear when he would receive the funds. If he did produce the paperwork, 
then it is likely that it would have shown that Mr C was the victim of a scam. I say that 
because Mr Cs estate has provided evidence of communication between the fraudsters to 
Mr C. It is likely that Mr C would have produced this paperwork  and that would indicate 
that he had been scammed. 
Mr C said he needed £25,000 for redecorating. I dont see how any broker acting 
reasonably could accept this as a valid reason to borrow that amount on a lifetime 
mortgage. Age Partnership did challenge Mr C that the amount seemed high. It then asked 
whether Mr C needed any work on his kitchen and bathroom. Mr C said he did. I dont 
consider Age Partnership acted fairly or reasonably here. There is a difference between a 
consumer approaching with a set of objectives and asking for advice and a consumer 
changing his objectives (significantly) during a phone call without at least being given the 
chance to reflect on what their needs actually were.
It was clear that Mr Cs objective to borrow £25,000 for home decoration was unrealistic. I 
dont consider it was fair for Age Partnership to then prompt him to think of other reasons to 
borrow the money on the spot. His objective was to decorate, not to carry out other home 
improvements. I cant see how he could have known a reasonably accurate budget for a 
new kitchen and bathroom. It was certainly not a sound basis on which to give advice. 
There was a potential for Mr C to be left with surplus funds if he didnt need that much  or 
if there was a shortfall he would need to raise funds another way. That isnt a fair or 
reasonable way to go about giving advice.
A broker acting fairly and reasonably would have asked Mr C to obtain quotes for the work 
he needed. I note that Age Partnership did this on the advice of its compliance department. 
But I dont consider it was reasonable for it to go ahead and recommend the mortgage 
when Mr C refused to do so. There was a significant risk of detriment to Mr C in doing so -
and Age Partnership ought to have known that. 
While it is important to examine the individual reasons why I consider that Age Partnership 
didnt act fairly and reasonably it is also important to look at all of the information that Age 
Partnership had together. While one piece of information in isolation might not reasonably 
give rise to any concerns, looked at as a whole it might indicate there was a problem where 
a business  acting fairly and reasonably  could not proceed. For the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont consider that Age Partnership did act fairly or reasonably. I consider if it 
had it would have declined to recommend that Mr C should take this mortgage.
The question for me therefore is, what was Mr C likely to have done if Age Partnership had 
not recommended another lifetime mortgage. We know that when Age Partnership would not 
proceed with application 4, Mr C approached broker J and it arranged a lifetime mortgage for 
him. We also know that when Mr C approached broker J, he gave it the same information 
that he gave Age Partnership in respect of the aborted application 4. That is despite Age 
Partnership telling Mr C that it couldnt recommend a lifetime mortgage because of what hed 
told it.
It follows, that it is more likely than not, if Age Partnership had not proceeded with 
application 3 that Mr C would have approached another broker and given it the same 
information that he gave to Age Partnership in respect of application 3.
I note that Age Partnership said the fact that broker J arranged a lifetime mortgage for Mr C in respect of application 4 meant that he would have been able to obtain another mortgage 
through another broker in respect of application 3. I dont consider that is the right way to 
look at it. 
While Mr C was able to obtain a mortgage through broker J, it is clear that broker J wasnt 
acting fairly or reasonably when it recommended that mortgage to him. So I need to decide if 
Mr C had approached another broker in respect of application 3 could it  acting fairly and 
reasonably  have recommended that Mr C go ahead with application 3. If he had received 
poor advice his estate would have been able to seek redress from the other broker  just as 
it has against broker J.
If Mr C had approached another broker, it would not have had the information about the 
previous lifetime mortgages or the information that Mr C had given Age Partnership in 
previous applications. It is more likely than not that Mr C would have given it the same 
information about the court case and the reasons for borrowing the money.
I consider that another broker acting fairly and reasonably would have sought further 
information from Mr C about the court case. And if it had done so I consider the outcome 
would have been the same as I have set out above. That is, If Mr C had been asked to 
produce evidence to show the shares and the progress of the court case, again, as I see it 
there were two possibilities:
3) He refused to produce the evidence.
4) He produced the paperwork he had. 
In either case I dont see how a broker could reasonably give Mr C advice. If he refused 
then it couldnt satisfy itself that Mr C had a genuine need for the funds  both in the 
respect that it would indicate he was hiding something and that it wasnt a sound basis on 
which to give advice if it wasnt clear when he would receive the funds. If he did produce 
the paperwork, then it is likely that it would have shown that Mr C was the victim of a scam. 
I say that because of the evidence Mr Cs estate has provided from the fraudsters to Mr C.  
There is also the background of the £25,000 for decorating. Age Partnership thought it 
necessary to probe Mr C further about his objectives. Ive already found that it wasnt fair or 
reasonable for it to lead Mr C towards different objectives. I dont consider another broker 
acting fairly or reasonably would have done that. So another broker would have considered 
that Mr C had not only said he was expecting funds from a potentially suspicious source but 
also that his reason for borrowing the funds wasnt clear. 
In all the circumstances, I consider that if Age Partnership had declined to offer advice in 
respect of application 3 and Mr C had approached another broker, then if that other broker 
was acting fairly and reasonably it would also have declined to recommend a mortgage to Mr 
C. That is because the background of the court case on the face of it deserved further 
investigation. Even if the broker only asked Mr C for more information about the court case 
(and I consider any broker acting fairly and reasonably would have done so), Mr C either 
would not have provided any information or provided information which was likely to show 
that he was the victim of a scam. In either case, that would not be a sound basis for any 
broker to recommend a lifetime mortgage to Mr C and they would not be in a position to 
consider that a lifetime mortgage was appropriate for Mr Cs needs and circumstances.  
Application 4
The Equity Release Councils rules and guidance say:3.4 All members have a duty of care to consider any existing equity release plans when 
advising either an existing customer with a plan previously arranged by the firm, or a 
new customer with an existing plan arranged by another firm.
We would encourage Provider firms to notify Adviser firms (and vice versa) if they are made
aware of trigger points or life events. This will ensure that there is continuity between
providers and advisers to ensure that a clients change of circumstances is reviewed as
required.
The rules go on to give a non-exhaustive list of examples of such trigger points. It includes:
6.7
b) The period which has elapsed since the original advice
Could be an indicator that the customer has not fully understood the implications of the 
original contract, or possibly not been advised correctly or is being subject to some coercion 
by a third party
(f) Known or perceived vulnerability, capacity or coercion issues:
These may have been reported at point of sale or identified with ongoing contact,
And in some cases, it would not be prudent to continue with the drawdown request. 
However, where it is identified that there is a vulnerability or other issue, it may be 
necessary to refer to relevant sources of support.
I think it is difficult for Age Partnership to argue that it was reasonable for it not to tell the 
lender about its concerns. It had already recommended three equity release mortgages to 
Mr C. It (correctly) declined to recommend a fourth mortgage because it thought Mr C had 
been the victim of a scam. Age Partnership should have told the lender about its 
concerns.
Im not proposing an award for this part of the complaint. I am satisfied that there was an 
omission by Age Partnership in not passing on its concerns to the lender. But Mr C went on 
to receive advice from broker J to take out further borrowing. It seems to me that the cause 
of those further loans was the advice received from broker J. While there was a clear 
failing by Age Partnership, I dont consider it would be fair for me to say that it should 
compensate Mr C for any financial loss where that came about because of the advice 
given by broker J. I understand that Mr Cs estate has settled its complaint about broker J. 
It doesnt follow that it would be fair for me to say that Age Partnership should make up the 
difference.
Putting things right
Ive found that Age Partnership didnt act fairly or reasonably in recommending that Mr C 
take out the equity release mortgage in respect of application 3. Ive also found that it is 
likely that Mr C would have given similar objectives to another broker and that no broker 
acting fairly or reasonably could have recommended a mortgage on the basis. It follows 
that Mr C would not have taken the mortgage in respect of application 3 had Age 
Partnership acted fairly and reasonably.
We have evidence to show that Mr C was a victim of a scam and that he paid the 
proceeds of the equity release mortgages to the scammers. I am satisfied that he and his 
estate suffered a financial loss because of the advice Mr C received in respect of 
application 3. Mr C did not receive the benefit of the proceed of that mortgage.
The starting point is for Age Partnership to pay Mr Cs estate the amount raised under 
application 3 plus any associated interest, fees and charges.In saying that, we know that Mr C had received a number of warnings over the years that 
he was the victim of a scam from relatives, the police and Action Fraud . And of course, 
after Age Partnership also told Mr C that he was the victim of a scam Mr C went on to 
raise more money to pay to the fraudsters.
Mr C continued to send money to the fraudsters. In the case of application 3 he was 
advised to take out an equity release mortgage by Age Partnership. This loss would not 
have come about had Mr C not been advised to do so by Age Partnership  and I dont 
consider any competent adviser acting fairly and reasonably could have recommended Mr 
C take the mortgage in application 3.
But in view of the warnings that Mr C had received I think it is reasonable for his estate to 
take some responsibility for those decisions. Ive taken into account that Mr C received 
advice  and that he was clearly taken in by the fraud. But I consider it would be fair to
deduct 25% of the above total to reflect Mr Cs contribution to what happened. That reflects 
that Mr C continued to act despite receiving numerous warnings. But also that Age 
Partnership actively recommended this mortgage to Mr C  this isnt a case where it had no 
option other than to recommend a lifetime mortgage to Mr C.
Age Partnership has said that Mr Cs family ought to have taken additional measures to 
protect Mr C. Its not clear what those measures were. For example, there is no suggestion 
Mr C lacked the capacity to manage his affairs where his family could take steps to obtain a 
power of attorney for him. And so I make no further deduction for that. My final decision
My final decision is that Age Partnership Limited should:
Work out the total amount that Mr Cs estate had to pay to redeem the part of the
mortgage that came about because of application 3 (capital and interest), plus any fees
paid upfront or added to the mortgage.
Pay Mr Cs estate 75% of that amount.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the above amount from the date the mortgage was
repaid until date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman