The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with how Elderbridge Limited treated them when their account fell 
into arrears.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B contacted Elderbridge when they noticed an additional charge on their account 
from a few months prior for a missed direct debit and it agreed to waive this charge. 
Sometime later they fell into arrears with their loan due to a change in their personal 
circumstances. They contacted Elderbridge and explained that they wouldnt be in a position 
to make payments at this time.
Mr and Mrs B were in contact with Elderbridge about their situation and they informally 
agreed to make payments to clear the arrears when their situation improved. However they 
didnt want to enter into a formal arrangement as they werent yet in a stable position 
financially. Throughout this time Elderbridge sent them letters and they also received texts 
and phone calls. One of the letters also referred to someone coming to their home to discuss 
their situation. Mr and Mrs B considered the contact was threatening and they were being 
harassed, so they raised a complaint.
Elderbridge didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. It said the contact was acceptable for 
the situation and that some of the communication was required under the rules it had to 
follow. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree so brought their complaint to our service. Our investigators 
didnt uphold their complaint, so they asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B feel very strongly about their treatment by Elderbridge. And that it 
has treated them in the same way as a customer who wasnt willing to work with it or trying 
to come to an arrangement to clear their arrears. And I accept from looking at some of the 
correspondence sent to them why they feel this way. However, that doesnt mean Im in 
agreement with them that Elderbridge was harassing them or treating them unfairly.
Mr and Mrs B have explained their reasons to us for not entering into a formal payment plan. 
And I can understand why they made this choice. However, as they werent willing to do this, 
they werent formally in a different position to a customer who wasnt paying and had not 
arranged to do so. And having a formal arrangement changes what next steps can be taken 
to recover the debt.
Our service has to consider whats fair to both parties. And when a customer is in arrears the 
business has certain steps it needs to follow, which is why many have standard letters for 
DRN-1921141this situation. So if Elderbridge had not sent the letters based on Mr and Mrs Bs word they 
would pay, and then they hadnt paid, it wouldve been in a worse position  it would need to 
send the letters it did send at that point, adding more time to the process and preventing it 
from taking the next steps. And I dont consider the content of the letters threatening or that 
they or the phone contact could be classed as harassment. So while I appreciate their upset 
on receiving the letters and contact after they were trying to clear the arrears, I dont think 
Elderbridge was acting unfairly.
Mr and Mrs B have mentioned being backed into a corner and again I understand what they 
mean by this. I appreciate they got into the arrears from a situation out of their control, but 
when this has happened their choices with Elderbridge were to enter into a formal plan or to 
receive the chaser contact for payment. While this may have felt like a corner to them, this 
isnt a situation I can say is unfair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B have explained that other lenders treated them much more favourably than 
Elderbridge. But as weve previously set out to them, our role is to look at whether, on 
balance, Elderbridge did something wrong or treated them unfairly in the circumstances. Its 
not to compare how it treated them with other lenders treatment. And based on what Ive 
seen, I cant say that it did act unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman