DRN-4475074
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Vitality Health Limited wont pay her private medical insurance claim 
that it had authorised and about its service.
What happened
Mrs R had private medical insurance through her employers group policy. The policy was 
insured by Vitality.
Mrs R made a pre-authorisation claim on the policy for private surgery. In August 2022 
Vitality authorised the procedure. The surgery had been due to happen mid October 2022 
but the hospital rescheduled the surgery to mid November 2022. On 25 October 2022 Mrs R 
called Vitality to tell it about the delay. On 28 October 2022 Vitality sent Mrs R a letter re-
authorising the treatment and she had the surgery as planned. 
In March 2023 Mrs R received a letter from the hospital saying Vitality hadnt paid her costs. 
She contacted Vitality to ask why and she says Vitality gave her confusing answers. 
Vitalitys final response letter to Mrs R said:
It wouldnt pay her costs as the policy had been cancelled on 30 September 2022 
due to her employer not paying the policy premiums and her treatment took place 
after the policy cancellation date. 
It had pursued her employer for the unpaid policy premiums but as it had only 
received premiums until September 2022 it had decided on 1 June 2023 to backdate 
the policy cancellation to 30 September 2022. 
Mrs R should raise her concerns with her employers group secretary as it was the 
group secretarys responsibility to keep the employees informed about the policy.
Mrs R complained to us. In summary she said:
She took Vitalitys authorisation letter of 28 October 2022 in good faith and had the 
surgery only because Vitality had agreed to cover the procedure. Vitality was 
unethical and irresponsible if it didnt pay the hospital as it had agreed. That would 
mean she would have to pay the costs and she didnt have the money to do so. The 
purpose of medical insurance is to protect her from those liabilities.
Vitality delayed far too long in telling her about her employers non-payment of the 
policy premium. She didnt know about problems with the policy until March 2023. If 
there were problems with her employer paying the premiums then Vitality should 
never have authorised her treatment.
She had no control over the contract issues between her employer and Vitality and 
as the patient she shouldnt be punished. Vitality should pay her costs then pursue 
her employer for those costs.
Shed received mixed messages in her calls with Vitality, it told her there were no 
problems with the policy then changed its mind.
She wants Vitality to pay her full costs.
Our investigator said Vitality had acted reasonably in not paying Mrs Rs costs. But he 
recommended Vitality pay Mrs R £150 compensation for her distress and inconvenience and 
loss of expectation due to it giving her wrong information about the policy in May 2023.
Mrs R disagrees and wants an ombudmans decision. She emphasised that Vitality had 
authorised her treatment when the policy was still in place and knowing it was having 
difficulty receiving premiums from her employer. It knew it could cancel the policy if her 
employer didnt pay. Mrs R also set out how she understood a home insurance claim would 
work if an insurer approved a home repair but a consumer changed to another insurer before 
the repair work was done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the points Mrs R has made but I wont address all her points in my 
findings. Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision and the key points which I think 
are relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R, I feel a lot sympathy for her as shes in a situation where she 
owes the hospital a considerable amount of costs through no fault of her own. But I think 
Vitality has reasonably declined to pay the costs it authorised. Ill explain why.
The policy says under the section headed Conditions of your Plan.
Your entitlement to benefit will end after the last day of your cover. We will only be 
liable for the cost of eligible treatment that takes place before that date. Once your 
cover under this plan ends, no further benefit will be payable for any treatment 
received after that date by you or any of your insured dependants.
This will be the case even if;
* a claim started before your cover ended, or
* you or any of your insured dependants are in the middle of treatment, or
* we have authorised treatment that is due to take place after your cover has
ended
So the policy is clear that Vitality wont pay any costs that are incurred after the policy ends 
even if it has authorised treatment that is due to take place after the policy ended. Vitality 
acted in line with the policy terms when it told Mrs R it wouldnt pay the costs it had re-
authorised in August 2022 as her treatment happened in November 2022 which was after 
the last day of policy cover on 30 September 2022.
Ive also considered whats fair and reasonable given all the circumstances. 
Mrs R has detailed how she thinks home insurance would work in a comparable situation. 
But even if I thought that was correct, this is a private health insurance policy and the above 
policy terms are not unusual for private health insurance policies. I think Vitality was acting reasonably when it sent the authorisation letter to Mrs R on 
28 October 2022. At that date Mrs Rs employer had paid the outstanding August and 
September 2022 premiums, Vitality had spoken to her employer and the direct debit for the 
premiums had been reactivated. I think Vitality reasonably understood that her employer 
would pay the further premiums. Vitalitys notes show that it was on 23 November 2022 that 
the direct debit collection for the October and November 2022 premium was rejected, which 
was after Mrs R had surgery. 
Even if I thought Vitality should have reasonably had concerns about Mrs Rs employer not 
paying further premiums (which I dont think for the reasons given above) Vitality wasnt in a 
position to tell Mrs R. The Group Secretary Plan Terms and Conditions between Vitality and 
her employer are clear that its for the employers group secretary to tell employees about 
changes to the plan. And the policy document sent to Mrs R says Vitality will discuss policy 
administration issues only with the group secretary, acting on behalf of the plan holder, and 
not with any individual insured member.
I also think Vitality acted reasonably in saying the policy ended on 30 September 2022. 
Vitality didnt make that decision until 1 June 2023 but thats because during the interim 
period it was chasing Mrs Rs employer for the outstanding premiums, unsuccessfully. The 
employer had paid the policy premium for September 2022 and the Group Secretaty Plan 
Terms and Conditions say:
Your entitlement to benefit will end after the last day of the period covered by the 
final premium payment. In such circumstances, we will only be liable for the cost of 
eligible treatment that takes place before that date.
So under the policy terms Vitality could reasonably backdate the policy end date to 
30 September 2022 which was the last day of the period covered by the final premium 
payment.
I agree with Mrs R that she had no control over whether her employer paid the policy 
premiums. I understand why she thinks shes been left in the very unfair position of having to 
pay her treatment costs. But for the reasons above Im satisfied that Vitality did nothing 
wrong in authorising her treatment when it did, subsequently ending the policy on 
30 September 2022 and in not paying for the costs it had authorised. So I cant fairly say 
Vitality should pay Mrs Rs cost then pursue her employer for the costs. 
I understand Vitality suggested to Mrs R that she speak to her employer as it's due to them 
not paying the premiums which has left her with no policy cover after 30 September 2022, 
and I think thats a reasonable suggestion.
Vitality did give Mrs R conflicting information about the situation. In March 2023 Vitality 
correctly told her there was a problem with payment on the policy and until there was an 
active payment on the account no claims could be approved. In early May 2023 Vitality told 
Mrs R the policy was up to date, there was no need to worry about her outstanding invoices 
which would be sent to its billing department, which was wrong information. When later in 
May 2023 Vitality correctly told Mrs R there was still a problem with the policy, Mrs R was 
caused confusion, distress and a loss of expectation. I think the £150 compensation our 
investigator recommended Vitality pay Mrs R for those issues is a fair amount. 
I should emphasise that the £150 compensation only relates to Mrs Rs distress and 
inconvenience and loss of expectation Vitality unreasonably caused by giving her wrong 
information. Mrs R is understandably very upset and stressed about being left to pay her 
treatment costs, shes told us shell suffer a lot of financial hardship. But as I think Vitality reasonably isnt paying those costs Ive no basis for increasing the compensation for Mrs Rs 
distress and inconvenience that Vitality isnt responsible for.
Putting things right
Vitality must pay Mrs R £150 for her distress and inconvenience and loss of expectation it 
unreasonably caused due to giving her incorrect information.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Vitality Health Limited to pay Mrs R £150 for her 
distress and inconvenience and loss of expectation it unreasonably caused due to giving her 
incorrect information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman