DRN-2678282
The complaint
Mrs H says Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) gave her unsuitable advice about a pension 
annuity. She says she wasnt told about the implications of the monthly payment and she 
now wants it to be cancelled.
What happened
Mrs H had a pension plan with Phoenix with a value of around £22,000. Because shed 
moved home after taking out the policy, Phoenix had to trace her whereabouts. It managed 
to locate her in 2013, the year she turned 60.
Phoenix informed Mrs H about her options and she decided to take 25% of her pension 
benefits as tax-free cash (TFC). She took the residual funds as a single-life annuity, payable 
monthly in advance. In the event of her passing, it had a 5-year guaranteed payment period.
Soon after Mrs Hs annuity had been established she raised concerns about her pension 
arrangements. From 2014 shes continued to raise issues about different aspects of what 
happened in 2013. Following Phoenixs final response letter to her in November 2020, she 
brought her case to this Service. She said:
I attach a complaint to Phoenix in relation to an annuity I was advised to take out. I had a 
lost pension approximately of £22,000 and was advised that I could only take out 25% of the 
value and then turn the rest into an annuity to be paid monthly, at the time I was not a 
pensionernow that I am a pensioner the monthly annuity pay-out is affecting my benefits 
i.e. it stops me from claiming Pension Credit which stops all sorts of benefits which I should 
be entitled to i.e. Winter Fuel Allowance, [reimbursement of] dentistry [fees] etc.
I am asking [Phoenix] to cancel the monthly annuity which I feel was mis-sold and I was ill-
advised as at the time of taking it out I was not of pensionable age. And I was not advised of 
the implications of having a monthly annuity at the time of taking it out.
Phoenix said that it was satisfied Mrs H had been properly informed of her retirement options 
in 2013. It hadnt given her advice. It had followed her instructions. And it didnt have an 
option to cancel her annuity. It also later noted that to date shed received around £5,500 in 
TFC and about £8,000 in annuity payments.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He didnt think Phoenix had done anything 
wrong. Mrs H disagreed and so her case has been passed to me to review and to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs H says that she was advised by Phoenix to take out an annuity. But Ive found no 
evidence this was the case. For example, theres no suitability report with recommendations 
to her. And I cant see that she paid a fee for advice. The call transcripts Ive read dont 
suggest she was given advice either.
Even though I dont think Phoenix gave Mrs H advice about her pension arrangements, it 
was still required to make sure she had enough information to make an informed decision. 
Ive reviewed the various retirement packs it sent her. Im satisfied these were clear and 
comprehensive, covering matters such as:
- Signposting sources of advice and support, for example the Money Advice Service.
- The options available to Mrs H for taking her pension, including shopping around for 
a different provider; deferring taking her benefits; taking a portion of her funds as 
TFC; the different annuities available; or leaving her funds invested, including 
drawdown plans.
- A recommendation for her to seek financial advice when deciding about her pension 
options.
- Mrs Hs cancellation rights.
Ive thought about the specific point Mrs H raised in her complaint to the Service about not 
being made aware by Phoenix of the wider impact of her taking an annuity on her ability to 
claim certain benefits.
The information Phoenix provided didnt mention this specific matter. The issue for firms 
here is finding the balance between providing important information for everyone, and not 
overwhelming customers with too much so that the key messages get lost. I think Phoenix 
provided Mrs H with the information Id reasonably expect it to have done for a non-advised 
transaction.
As Ive mentioned Phoenix also directed Mrs H to sources of advice and support that 
couldve provided a little more detail, such as the Pensions Advisory Service. Its also the 
case that had she sought independent financial advice, her specific circumstances and 
objectives wouldve been reviewed. And its likely this wouldve alerted her to the issues 
shes now raised. 
I note in responding to the Investigators view, Mrs H told him that as an ex-financial adviser 
for a regulated firm, shed have considered the impact of annuity payments on people when 
they became pensioners. Ive not weighed her comments here in my decision. Id simply 
observe that as she had some experience of the sector, its reasonable to assume shed be 
in a better position than a layperson to understand the difference between advised and non-
advised transactions; the implications of her decision; and when appropriate, the importance 
of seeking financial advice.Turning to the second complaint point Mrs H brought to this service  her request to cancel 
her annuity. The relevant regulations that Phoenix must comply with are as follows:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS 
Regulation 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a) the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition 
is met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28);
(b) the payment does not exceed £10,000;
(c) the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
These regulations, which allow pension providers to over-ride the rules of the scheme and 
make payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (including cashing-in 
of annuities)  are a permissive provision. This means Phoenix can make these payments if 
it wishes to do so  but this isnt mandatory.
So, the legislation says a person in Mrs Hs position doesnt have a right to commute her 
annuity to a cash lump sum. But Phoenix could offer this, if it wanted to do so, but subject to 
the limit imposed by regulation.
In my experience, not all providers will agree to allow the cashing in of annuities, where fund 
values would allow for this. Thats because an annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed 
in. Firms have several commercial considerations to make:
- Annuities are long-term contracts, backed by long-term and illiquid assets, so cash 
values arent easily realised. Crystalising positions could create winners and losers, 
which could itself give rise to concerns. 
- Offering a cash-in option for small annuities means a firm would have to offer the 
same option to all customers. Otherwise, it wouldnt be treating people consistently. 
This raises operational challenges around the systems and processes in place to 
facilitate significant numbers of commutations.
- Without appropriate processes and checks, customers could be exposed to the risk 
of poor outcomes. Designing an appropriate framework to allow a commutation 
option would require time, cost, planning and regulator engagement.
Phoenix has told Mrs H that legislation means it cant cancel her annuity. I assume it means 
because her fund value exceeds the £10,000 threshold in regulation. It follows that it hasnt 
got a choice in the matter and it cant do what she wants.
Even if Mrs Hs fund was under the stated threshold, generally speaking, the position 
adopted on whether to allow the cashing in of small annuities would be a commercial 
decision for Phoenix. And our interest here would be in relation to whether it had applied 
such a decision fairly in a given case, rather than seeking to interfere with that general 
business decision.To conclude. Ive not found that Phoenix has done anything wrong with regard to the 
complaint Mrs H has raised with this Service. It follows that I dont require it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman