DRN-3464994
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund £82,000 she lost as the result of a 
scam.
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 4 March 2022 covered the 
detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Miss Ls testimony. But briefly in 
December 2020, Miss L was contacted by someone who she thought was a very close 
family friend via social media but unbeknown to her at the time was in fact a scammer. Miss 
L said his profile picture matched her friends identity. After chatting online for a while, her 
friend asked to borrow some money to invest in a big project. Miss L explained that he 
initially asked to borrow £10,000 and promised to return the money back to her in February 
2021 - with interest. Four days later the scammer told Miss L a profit had been made and he 
now needed more money to become a major investor and this would give him the power to 
withdraw cash at any time. Between the 18 December 2020 and 8 January 2021, Miss L 
made a total of five transfers to two different bank accounts totalling £82,000.
HSBC did not offer a refund. It said Miss L authorised the payments and it acted on her 
payment instructions. It acknowledged it made some errors with the recovery of Miss Ls 
funds, but said this wouldnt have made a difference as it wouldnt have been able to recover 
the funds anyway because the beneficiary account holder wouldnt have given permission.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that HSBC ought to have done 
more than it did and that it should have been concerned from the first transaction onwards. 
She felt if it had intervened it would have stopped the scam. However, the investigator 
considered by the time Miss L made the final transaction  Miss L ought to have been 
concerned and should therefore bear some of the responsibility for this transaction.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 July 2022. HSBC did not respond. It did ask for longer 
but still has not responded. I am conscious that it took over three months for HSBC to 
respond to the investigators view and I dont think it is fair on Miss L to wait any longer. It 
also provided comprehensive submissions in response to that view and the main reason for 
issuing a provisional decision rather than a final decision was because I decided Miss L 
should bear 50% responsibility from an earlier date than the investigator concluded.
Miss L responded. She pointed out there was an error in my provisional decision with regard 
to the reporting date of the scam  which she explained and evidenced was in fact 18 
February 2022. She also explained several reasons why she should be refunded 80% rather 
than 50% of the transactions. In summary she said:
She had the savings account for over 30 years and kept excellent credibility. She had 
never made single international payment in her banking record until the scam took 
place. The out of character payments should have raised enough concerns for the 
bank to take action.
She authorised the payments in an isolated environment during lockdown because of 
the pandemic. She was suffering with her mental health and the psychological impact 
of Covid whilst she was targeted by the callous scam. 
Scams like these are well known to banks, as a financial service professional, HSBC 
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud which banks are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer. Unfortunately, it failed to take necessary 
steps to protect her before it simply processed the payment without question. 
There were some concerning acts of the financial services professional, after her 
report of scam. The bank subsequently admitted it made errors with payment traces 
and claimed that it wouldnt have made a difference in terms of the recovery of 
funds, it also claimed that its intervention wouldnt have made a difference in 
preventing the scam. She felt these excuses ultimately misled the Ombudsmans 
decision. As a financial service professional, HSBC should have performed with 
appropriate manner in accordance with the financial service regulations. In this case, 
she feels the bank ought to learn from lessons, instead of finding excuses to avoid 
responsibility.
HSBC made an error about the date she reported the scam, and instantly denied 
responsibility even before contacting the fraudsters bank in Hong Kong. This had an 
impact on the Ombudsmans decision.
She has concerns about misconduct on HSBCs part and would like the Ombudsman 
to look at the bank, as well as their standards of morality in respect of customer care.
HSBC was negligent in processing the payments, and subsequently made errors with 
the recovery of lost funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Miss Ls response to my provisional decision. Most of the points Miss L 
has raised  have already been taken into account when reaching my decision. For example 
 I acknowledged the (international) payments were unusual and I dont doubt she kept 
excellent credibility on her account. I also acknowledged her personal circumstances and 
why I didnt think she wasnt capable of taking steps to protect herself from fraud.
I think its also worth adding that this service was set up to consider individual complaints, so 
its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to make findings about a businesss 
wider practices or processes  that is something for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to do, and they have the power to fine and punish businesses where 
appropriate. 
My role is to look at individual complaints and when a business does something wrong or 
makes a mistake that causes a consumer a financial loss, Id expect the business to put it 
right by putting the consumer in the position they would be in if that error hadnt taken place. 
Sometimes  a bank error wouldnt have made a difference in the circumstances  which I 
believe is the case here for any errors made in attempts at recovery of funds and errors in 
the incorrect reporting date. I have explained this in more detail below.Taking into account Miss Ls comments, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set 
out in my provisional decision. I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all 
the circumstances, would be to partly uphold this complaint. For completeness, I have set 
this out below  and have addressed any further relevant points within my decision.
Should HSBC have prevented the payments from being made?
Theres no dispute here Miss L fell victim to a scam, but there is no automatic right to a 
refund for victims of fraud. In fact, the relevant regulations (and the terms of her account) 
make Miss L responsible for payments shes made herself in the first instance. In broad 
terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Miss L authorised the payments. 
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The Banking Protocol mentioned by Miss L is not relevant here as this only applies to 
branch-based transactions.
What can be considered unusual or uncharacteristic activity clearly requires reference to 
common activity on the account. So, Ive looked back at the account statements as far as 
September 2019. But there were no transfers of this nature during this time. Most of the 
previous activity on Miss Ls current account in the 15-month period before the scam related 
to small debits and some cash withdrawals  the largest withdrawal being £300. What was 
unusual here was Miss L had previously not made such a large single payment to a new 
payee by faster payment or an international payment.
In my opinion, the payment for £10,000 was a payment instruction that HSBC ought to have 
realised warranted additional checks before it simply processed it without question. I think in 
a situation like this HSBC should have spoken with Miss L to check everything was in order, 
to protect her from the risk of financial harm. I have therefore thought about what most likely 
would have happened if HSBC had spoken appropriately to Miss L about her instruction for 
the £10,000 payment on 18 December 2020, before it executed it.In doing so I have considered the later conversation HSBC had with Miss L on the 22 
December 2020 when she made the second £25,000 transaction. I do think this is the 
closest indication I have of the likely direction of a hypothetical conversation four days 
earlier.
As a financial services professional, I think HSBC would have been aware at the time that 
fraudsters impersonate family and friends. Miss L voluntarily told the call handler she was 
urgently paying a family friend. I think the call handler could have probed Miss L further 
about her friend and what the money was for. I do understand HSBCs comments about how 
it would have been difficult for Miss L (or the bank) to verify her friend, but I do think it could 
have done much more to bring to life what scams like this look and feel like.
HSBC says its intervention would not have made a difference. But Miss L told the bank the 
payment was to pay a friend urgently. I think it could have asked Miss L about her friend 
and his name (which didnt match the payee details).  I think if HSBC had made further 
enquiries Miss L would have told the call handler the name of her friend and that he had 
contacted her over social media to borrow money for an investment. With this in mind, I 
think the bank could, relatively easily, have identified and warned Miss L of the possibility 
she was being scammed. 
It could have told Miss L about potential impersonation and investment scams and point 
out that most scammers will try and persuade customers to pay by bank transfer like this. 
Scams like these are well known to banks. The bank should have helped Miss L to reflect 
on whether it was legitimate or not. This was something that a more experienced eye 
should think was potentially not quite right. I think providing further information about the 
hallmarks of these types of scam would have been enough to cause Miss L sufficient 
concern. This was a large sum of money, so I think she would have checked further and 
called her friend on his original phone number, as she did when she later discovered this 
might be scam. It seems probable that Miss L would have become suspicious and then 
incredulous about the scam in time and stopped the payment in its tracks. The fraud would 
have failed; and Miss L would not have lost £10,000 or the transactions that followed.
Could Miss L have done more to mitigate her losses?
Ive thought carefully about what HSBCs obligations were, as set out above. But another 
key issue is whether Miss L acted reasonably taking into account all the circumstances of 
the scam. So, I have also considered whether Miss L should bear some responsibility by 
way of contributory negligence.
From the information Miss L has provided to us, its clear that she was experiencing a 
particularly difficult time in her personal life when she fell victim to the scam. She says she 
had recently lost her mother and was self-isolating due to the pandemic.
Im sorry to hear of all Miss L has been through. Not just in terms of this scam, but also 
whats happened to her prior to the scam. Ive no doubt that Miss L has been through a lot 
and I dont doubt that her mental health has suffered as a result. And no doubt the scam 
has impacted her further. 
I dont doubt Miss L has suffered as a result of losing her mother and the psychological 
impact of Covid and social isolation. But there is also evidence within the circumstances 
that suggest Miss L was capable of taking steps to protect herself from fraud and financial 
harm. That is to say there was more she might reasonably have done that would have led 
to the scam being uncovered. I do agree with HSBC that there are gaps and inconsistencies here. I appreciate these 
events stem back some time ago and valuable supporting evidence has since been 
destroyed  so it is perhaps understandable Miss L cant accurately recall everything.
I think by the time Miss Ls friend came back to her for the second payment just four days 
after asking for £10,000, Miss L should have been testing the legitimacy of what she was 
being told. I dont think Miss L did enough to satisfy herself that the requests were genuine.
Miss L told us her genuine friend had never asked her for money or invested money 
like this before - so this was an unusual request. She also told us he generally 
contacted her over the phone rather than via social media  so the circumstances of 
the initial contact were unusual. I think by the second request she ought to have 
reflected on what she was initially told by the scammer and questioned its legitimacy.
 
Miss L doesnt seem to have asked enough about the returns or made other checks 
about the investment itself. She told us she did not pay attention to the details or ask 
much about the investment.
For an investment to make considerable returns in a four-day period was in my view 
unrealistic. I consider such short term returns were so unlikely that Miss L ought 
reasonably to have had significant concern about the legitimacy of the opportunity 
and what she was being told. That, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of 
checking on her part.
There was no cold call and Miss L would have had time between the communications 
to reflect on the potential investment. She wasnt, in my view, under immediate 
pressure to proceed with the investment. 
The payments werent sent to Miss Ls friend and although she was given 
explanations as to why the account name was different, I dont think the explanation 
was particularly persuasive and certainly warranted further checking.
Miss Ls friend had told her his business was doing well  yet he needed to borrow 
and keep borrowing money from her in order to make an investment. I appreciate he 
may have told her all his capital was tied up  but I think this should have aroused 
suspicion. Particularly when she went on to borrow money herself  which is 
something her friend could have done himself.
It is also clear from Miss Ls own testimony that at some point she realised she was 
being tricked but was worried she would lose what money she had already passed 
over. She told us At the time, I was trapped in by fraudster and desperate tried to 
borrow monies from family and friends in every possible way to meet his demands, 
because I was in fear that I would lose even more if I had refused him.Miss L went ahead and made the payments despite all of these red flags. Im conscious that 
it doesnt feel entirely fair to hold HSBC liable for the entire loss in this case. That loss has 
resulted after Miss L transferred a considerable amount of money without checking anything 
further or verifying the information she was given. I think if she had, it wouldve shown 
inconsistencies and issues in the information she was provided with. On that basis, I think 
its reasonable for Miss L to share the responsibility with HSBC and reduce the refund from 
the second transaction onwards by 50%. I have considered Miss Ls arguments that she 
should only be responsible for 20% but I find it fairest for Miss L to share 50% of the 
responsibility with HSBC.
Recovery
In this case the funds were transferred to an international bank account. Although it is part of 
the HSBC group - international banks arent bound by the same rules and regulations as 
banks within the UK.  HSBC contacted the receiving bank and asked for the funds to be 
returned to Miss L. But HSBC is reliant upon the international bank choosing to return funds. 
It cant require or force them to and unfortunately no funds have been returned. 
From what Ive seen, although HSBC made some errors with payment traces was late 
sending messages on some occasions and didnt follow up on other occasions, I dont think 
this would have made a difference here as ultimately -  the beneficiary bank requires debit 
authority from the beneficiary to get the funds back. In addition, the first scam payment was 
made on 18 December 2020 and the last on 8 January 2021. In my provisional decision I 
made an error regarding the reporting date of the scam  saying it was 1 March 2022  
when in fact the scam was reported on 18 February 2020. However, I dont think this makes 
a difference here - as it was still almost six weeks after the last payment. I understand that 
Miss L didnt know she was the victim of a scam before this, but the delay means any 
recovery action was most unlikely to be successful as scammers usually remove funds 
within hours. 
Overall, while I think HSBC ought to have done more and should have realised Miss L was 
falling victim to a scam, I dont think it would be fair to say it should refund the entire amount 
transferred.
I realise my decision will be a disappointment to Miss L  particularly as it differs in some 
respects to the investigators findings. I do accept she has fallen victim to what can only be 
described as a cruel and callous scam. But Im only considering whether the bank, which 
had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held fully responsible for what happened. 
Im sorry she has lost money and I can understand why she would like to be compensated 
for all of her losses. However, despite my natural sympathy for the situation she finds herself 
in ultimately, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to refund her entire loss.
Putting things right
In the circumstances, I am satisfied HSBC should fairly and reasonably reimburse Miss L for 
the loss she suffered with 50% reduction from the second transaction onwards along with 
interest.  Money for each transaction appears to have been primarily funded by various savings 
accounts  a fair rate would reflect the originating savings account rate. 
Refund 100% of the first transaction of £10,000 along with interest at the originating 
saving account rate. 
Refund 50% of the second to fourth transactions (so 50% of £25,000, £17,000 and 
£17,000) along with interest at the originating account rates from the date of each 
transaction to the date of settlement.
Regarding the last transaction of £12,000 - £11,200 appears to have been funded by a loan 
(although the total loan was £11,250) and the remaining funds were Miss Ls own. This isnt 
straight forward because Miss L borrowed the money (and used all but £50 to fund the 
scam). However, Ive set out below what I think is broadly a fair and reasonable approach. 
Refund 50% of her own funds, totaling £400 along with interest at the originating 
savings account rate from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement.
Refund 50% of the total loan repayments Miss L has made towards the loan, adding 
interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum to each repayment from the date it was 
made to the date of settlement.
Write off 50% of the remaining balance on the loan (make arrangements with the 
third-party loan provider or pay Miss L the equivalent so she can do so).
Amend Miss Ls credit file to reflect the above.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is I uphold the complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank 
Plc should put things right for Miss L as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman