DRN-3859295
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his claim on his motor insurance 
policy because he didnt have a tracker fitted to his car. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was stolen, and he made a claim to UKI. But it declined the claim as it said theft 
was only covered by his policy when a tracker was fitted to the car. Mr S said hed stated 
that he didnt have a tracker when he took out the policy. He thought the policy endorsement 
wasnt brought to his attention. UKI said it was clearly stated in the online application and in 
three policy documents sent to Mr S. Mr S said trackers were no longer required by UKI. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
requirement for a tracker for theft cover was made clear when Mr S applied for the policy 
online and in his policy documents. UKI had changed this requirement for later policies, but it 
was in force when Mr S took out his policy. And so he thought it wasnt unreasonable for UKI 
to rely on it to decline his claim. 
Mr S replied that UKIs agent had said it would pay his claim, but this was then retracted. He 
said UKI should have done more to alert him to the requirement. Mr S asked for an 
Ombudsmans review. So his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has explained that the theft of his car and the declined claim has had a significant 
financial effect on his family. I was sorry to hear about this. Our approach in cases like this is 
to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and 
fairly and reasonably.
UKI said it declined the claim for theft as it said the policy excluded cover for theft when a 
tracker wasnt fitted and linked to a network. I think this is a common exclusion in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or unreasonable. But it is a significant limitation 
of cover and so I would expect it to be set out in the policy wording and in the summary or 
Key Facts document. 
I can see that the requirement is clearly set out on the policy schedule under endorsements:
A tracking device must be fitted to this car and have a current network subscription for Theft 
cover to apply.
It is also stated on the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID): 
Are there any restrictions on cover?
We will not pay a claim if your car is stolen and any tracking device, which we insist is fitted, 
has not been set or is not in full working order.
And in the policy document, it states on page 14:
Using tracking devices:
We wont cover any loss or damage if we required a tracking device to be installed on your 
car and: It hasnt been fitted. The policyholder, main driver or anyone else named on the 
policy is aware that its not working. The device is not connected to a network because a 
subscription or service is not active. The driver recognition device for any tracking device is 
left unattended in or on your car. If we need you to use a tracking device, you can see this 
under Endorsements in your car insurance details.
Ive looked at the online journey Mr S completed when he bought his policy. And I can see 
that the endorsement was made clear to him before he purchased the policy. But he went 
ahead with the purchase despite knowing that he didnt have a tracker fitted to his car. UKI 
no longer requires this security measure and so it wasnt present when Mr S recently looked 
online and replicated his purchase. But Im satisfied that it was a requirement when Mr S 
bought his policy. 
Mr S said UKI should have provided further information about the requirement. But I 
disagree. I think it was for Mr S to read his policy documents to ensure that the policy met 
his needs. I cant hold UKI responsible if Mr S had trouble reading as I think he should then 
have obtained assistance. 
So I think UKI did enough to make it clear to Mr S that a tracker was required for his policy 
and if he didnt have one then he wouldnt be covered for theft. And so I think it was fair and 
reasonable for UKI to rely on this exclusion from cover to decline Mr Ss claim. 
Mr S said UKIs agent raised his expectations that the claim would be paid. But, as our 
Investigator explained, Mr S would have to first raise this with UKI as a complaint to give it a 
chance to respond before I can consider it. So I cant comment on that here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman