DRN-1834186
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr T has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr T says he was told that having the PPI was a requirement of the credit card account. 
Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mr T signed. There is a separate section for PPI 
with two statements  one basically saying, yes, I want PPI and the other saying, no, I dont 
want it. These statements are equally prominent. Theres a cross in the yes box. This is a 
pre-printed cross but thats typical of what we see from branch sales where the adviser 
asked the applicant questions with the answers being inputted into the computer and the 
form being printed off afterwards for signing.
Mr T says he asked the adviser if he had to have PPI and was told that he did as a condition 
of the credit card. But, as the PPI section of the form clearly had a no option, I think this 
might have caused Mr T to challenge what the adviser was saying.
The sale was a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ts recollection of events has 
faded. Indeed, when Barclays spoke to Mr T to discuss his recollections, he said it was 
either that he was told the PPI was a condition of the card or that he wasnt even told that 
hed got PPI. So, on balance Im not persuaded that Mr T has any strong memory of the 
sale. Ive thought carefully about what Mr T has said but overall, I consider that Mr T 
probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer 
remembers doing so.
Barclays advised Mr T to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to him, it needed to 
ensure that the policy met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ts circumstances at the 
time, the PPI was suitable for him.Mr T says he would have received some sick pay from his employer on top of statutory sick 
pay. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer 
than Mr T would have received full pay for.
Mr T says he had some savings due to having low outgoings. But having the policy would 
have allowed him to retain his savings or use them to cover what other outgoings he did 
have at what would have been a difficult time. So I consider it was reasonable of Barclays to 
advise Mr T to buy it.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr T wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused him to change his mind.
This means that Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr T about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr T, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman