DRN-4366989
The complaint
Mr A has complained that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has not 
undertaken an adequate repair of his tablet.
References to AIG include its agents and policy administrators.
I previously issued a provisional decision in this case. As I didnt receive any additional 
information from either Mr A or AIG, Im now issuing my final decision.
What happened
Mr A has a tablet that is insured with AIG. On 22 October 2022 he made a claim on his 
policy with AIG as his son had dropped the tablet and damaged the screen. Mr A paid an 
excess of £29 and AIG replaced the screen.
Mr A says that on 4 March 2023, the tablet screen cracked again in the same place without 
any apparent cause. Again, AIG replaced the screen and Mr A paid a second £29 excess.
On 16 March 2023 the screen cracked again, also without any apparent cause.
Mr A believes that the original breakage in October 2022 caused a structural defect in the 
tablet and that replacing the screen each time it broke would not solve the problem. He 
wants AIG to do a full repair to his tablet without any excess payable, or a replacement tablet 
if a full repair isnt feasible. He also wants the second excess he paid to be refunded  
because the original fault wasnt properly repaired, and he has a concern about the quality of 
the replacement screen which he says is much flimsier than the original.
Having seen photos of Mr As tablet, AIG determined that it had been damaged and 
therefore the 24-month warranty was void. It said that if he wished the tablet to be repaired, 
he would need to log a damage claim and pay another excess.
It referred Mr A to his policy terms and conditions which include the following:
Repair of your Device
Repairs will be made in accordance with the following: (i) using readily available parts, 
(ii) with refurbished products which may contain parts which are of similar or equivalent 
specification, and which may include non-original, third party, or unbranded parts, and/or 
(iii) may be performed by non-authorised OEM repair providers. [AIG] will provide a 
twenty-four (24) month warranty on the completed repair performed on the Tablet.
As he wasnt satisfied with AIGs response to his complaint, Mr A brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigators view was that Mr As tablet had been repaired in accordance with the 
terms of his policy and that there was no evidence of structural damage. She therefore didnt 
uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. I reviewed it and issued a 
provisional decision. As I didnt receive any further information from either Mr A or AIG, Im 
now giving my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr As complaint and Ill explain why. 
In my view, the recurring breakages of Mr As tablet screen are likely to be attributable either 
to repeated trauma to the tablet, damage having been done to the body of the tablet causing 
the screen to repeatedly break, or poor-quality repairs being done and/or poor quality parts 
being used.
I dont consider it likely that the tablet has suffered repeated trauma. Mr As model of tablet is 
third generation and is therefore quite old in mobile device terms and its been insured since 
2017. Three defects within four months would suggest an issue with the tablet rather than 
with its handling.
Following the second screen breakage on 4 March, AIG stated that it noticed damage from a 
photograph that Mr A provided and, on that ground, said that the warranty it provides didnt 
apply to the repair that it had undertaken. It hasnt provided any evidence of what damage it 
noticed. 
Mr A has suggested that the body of the tablet was damaged by the incident in October 
2022 in such a way as to lead to damage to a new screen, although if this were to be the 
case, its surprising that the screen didnt break again sooner after the first repair was 
undertaken. 
Ive noted the repair reports, and these make no reference to any inspection of the body of 
the tablet. In the absence of any actual evidence of damage to the body of the tablet, I 
consider that on the balance of probabilities the third breakage was attributable either to a 
poor repair or materials of inadequate quality.  
Whilst I dont consider it unreasonable for AIG to use non-branded parts when carrying out 
repairs, I dont consider it reasonable for such parts to be of inferior quality. Mr A commented 
that the replacement screen appeared much flimsier and when pressed hard the screen 
went fuzzy, which he says didnt happen with the original branded screen.
I consider that AIG has acted unfairly in requiring that Mr A submit a new damage claim and 
pay another excess for another repair. AIG should undertake another repair of Mr As tablet 
screen and at the same time investigate whether there is any damage to the body that might 
impact on the integrity of the new screen. No excess should be charged. Alternatively, if Mr 
A requests that he be provided with a replacement tablet, AIG should provide this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr As complaint and require AIG to 
undertake a further repair or to replace Mr As tablet at Mr As option. No excess should be 
charged.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman