DRN-2956137
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) handled the 
renewal of her motor insurance.
What happened
Mrs D had held motor insurance arranged through One Call for a number of years. In 2020 
she says she did not receive the usual letter inviting her to renew the policy, or any other 
renewal documents. Mrs D needed proof of insurance for her job so she tried to phone One 
Call on a number of occasions, but couldnt get through. At the time Mrs D didnt have the 
use of a computer.
 
About nine months after this, Mrs D did speak to One Call and said shed not received any 
renewal documentation. She made a complaint. One Call apologised and offered Mrs D £30 
compensation.
Mrs D wasnt happy with One Calls response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator thought it was reasonable for One Call to offer to pay Mrs D £30, and didnt think 
One Call needed to do anything more.
Mrs D wasnt happy with the investigators response and so her complaint has been passed 
to me. Mrs D thinks One Call should pay her £100, as she says she saw quotes online that 
were roughly this much cheaper than her renewal premium from One Call.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs D had held motor insurance arranged through One Call for around 10 years. She says 
when she first took out the insurance she didnt have an email address, so she always 
received her documents by post. Mrs D says normally when she got the renewal letters each 
year she would ring One Call and negotiate a lower premium. Mrs D says she didnt get the 
renewal invitation letter in 2020 so she wasnt able to do this.
One Call says it sent the renewal invitation letter to Mrs D by post several weeks before the 
renewal date. I have seen a copy of the letter and also of One Calls records showing it had 
been sent. I dont know why it didnt arrive, but I dont think it was unreasonable for One Call 
to assume it had. I think Mrs D was aware that it was the time of year for her policy to renew 
as she tried several times to call One Call about it, and she also got a family member to 
show her some other quotes online.
However, One Call then didnt send other renewal documents to Mrs D by post. These 
documents were placed on its online portal, which Mrs D didnt have access to.
About a month after Mrs Ds policy renewed, One Call wrote to her to explain that, due to the 
covid pandemic, its call centre was closed. The letter outlined other ways to make contact, 
online or by post. The letter said if customers had difficulty contacting One Call online, a 
friend or family member could do this on their behalf.
About six months later, One Call wrote to Mrs D again with an update and asked her for an 
email address. One Call said its phone lines were open but asked customers to make 
contact online if possible. It was after this that Mrs D was able to speak to One Call, ask for 
her policy documents to be posted to her, and make the complaint.
Like many businesses, One Call was impacted by the covid pandemic. Mrs D was not able 
to get through on the phone around the time of her renewal. However shortly after this One 
Call did write to Mrs D explaining other ways she could get in touch. I think this was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I think it was unreasonable of One Call not to send some of Mrs Ds insurance documents to 
her by post. She had always received her documents by post in the past, and hadnt given 
One Call a valid contact email address. One Call has accepted this and has offered to pay 
Mrs D £30. I think this was fair and reasonable compensation for her trouble and upset. Mrs 
D says a family member was able to get insurance quotes for her that were around £100 
less than she paid with One Call. However these were only quotes not actual policy costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman