DRN-1598128
Complaint
Miss M says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly provided 
unaffordable loans to her.                          
Background
This complaint is about fourteen high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Lending 
Stream provided to Miss M from September 2018 onwards. Miss Ms last loan was provided 
in March 2019. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ms complaint and thought she shouldnt have been provided 
with loans 4 to 14. Lending Stream disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Miss M, I think that 
Lending Stream should reasonably have seen that Miss M was unlikely to have been able to 
make her payments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan 4. 
I say this because by this stage Miss M exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further 
loans before having repaid previous ones. Indeed loan 4 was provided while there were 
outstanding balances on loans 1, 2 and 3. Lending Stream says it's unfair to deem loans 4 to 
14 were unsustainable for Miss M as her bank statements show these loans were affordable. 
But Ive looked at Miss Ms bank statements and I cant see that she ever had a credit 
balance on her account, or had much in the way of disposable income. 
So I dont see how taking on further loans at such high rates of interest when she was likely 
to repay with funds borrowed from elsewhere was affordable or sustainable. And as Lending 
Stream continued lending to Miss M even when this pattern was repeated, I find that it did so 
in circumstances where it ought reasonably to have realised that any further loans were 
more likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Miss M had to pay interest and charges on loans that Lending Stream shouldnt have 
provided her with. So I think that she lost out and Lending Stream should put things right.
Putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss M paid on loans 4 to 14;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
he number of loans provided means that any information recorded about loans 4 to 
14 is likely to be adverse. So all reference to these loans should be removed from 
Miss Ms credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ms complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should pay Miss M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman