DRN-3282029
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC have reported a missed payment to her 
credit file.
What happened
Mrs L had a credit account with Tesco. In June 2021, Mrs L made an electronic payment of 
approximately £1,500 to the account. Mrs L had received a new credit card for the account 
shortly beforehand and so included the new credit card reference details in the payment.
Mrs L then travelled to visit family. During her visit she attempted to pay for a transaction on 
the credit card, but her card was declined. Mrs L contacted Tesco and was told that her June 
payment had been missed. Upon returning home, Mrs L attempted to make the payment 
again using the new credit card reference details but found that she was unable to do so. 
Mrs L contacted Tesco again and went through the payment details that she was inputting, 
but the reason the payment wasnt being successful couldnt be determined. Tesco could 
see that Mrs L had attempted to make a payment in June, so they refunded the fees and 
interest that had been charged to Mrs Ls account as a result of her not being able to make 
that payment, and they took the payment that Mrs L was trying to make over the telephone. 
Mrs L and Tesco also set up a direct debit for future monthly payments at that time.
Shortly afterwards, Mrs L noticed that Tesco had reported a late payment on her credit file. 
Mrs L wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint. Tesco looked at Mrs Ls complaint 
and concluded that the reason Mrs Ls attempted payment had failed was because Mrs L 
was adding spaces to the reference number, rather than inputting the reference number 
without spaces as was required by their systems. 
Tesco noted that theyd already reimbursed the fees and interest to Mrs Ls account, but 
they also confirmed that they had a responsibility to make accurate reports to the credit 
reference agencies, and as such they didnt feel that they could remove the late payment 
marker from Mrs Ls credit file as she would like. However, Tesco did make a further 
payment of £40 to Mrs L as compensation for their not making Mrs L aware that her credit 
file would be affected when they first could have done.
Mrs L wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They appreciated why Tesco had taken the 
stance that they had, but they didnt feel that it was fair that Mrs L should incur adverse 
credit reporting because of what had happened here, given that she had made a payment to 
Tesco that was significantly larger than the minimum monthly payment that was required on 
the account, and that the only reason the payment had failed was because of some spaces 
added to the reference number. So, they recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mrs 
Ls favour and that Tesco should remove the late payment marker from Mrs Ls credit file.
Tesco didnt agree with the recommendation put forwards by our investigator, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mrs L attempted to make a payment of approximately £1,500 to her 
account in June 2021, at a time when the minimum monthly payment required on her 
account was roughly £25. Its also not in dispute that the only reason the payment failed is 
because Mrs L inputted the reference number of her new credit card in a slightly different 
format to that which was required by Tesco.
It therefore seems clear to me that it isnt fair that Mrs L should incur a late payment marker 
on her credit file in these circumstances.
One reason I say this is because such a marker could very possibly be interpreted by 
another credit provider with whom Mrs L might make a future credit application as being an 
indicator that Mrs L might not have been able to have afforded her credit obligation to Tesco 
in June 2021, which obviously wasnt the case. And while Tesco may argue that a credit file 
demonstrates how well an individual manages their credit commitments, rather than whether 
they can afford them, I dont feel that Mrs L has demonstrated a mismanagement of her 
credit commitments here. And I also dont feel that Tescos inability to recognise a reference 
number inputted correctly, but with spaces, should detrimentally affect Mrs Ls credit file.
While Tesco are correct in stating that they have a responsibility to make accurate reports to 
the credit reference agencies, it can the case that a steadfast commitment to such a 
requirement can lead to an unfair outcome in certain circumstances. And I feel that this is 
whats happened in this instance. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Mrs L only incurred the adverse credit file reporting because of a 
technical issue. Im also satisfied that Mrs Ls attempts to make a significantly larger 
payment than the minimum monthly payment required, before the date that June 2021 
monthly payment needed to be made, along with Mrs Ls historically good payment record 
on the account, demonstrates both good affordability and good account management by Mrs 
L. And I dont feel it can be considered fair that Mrs L should incur detrimental adverse credit 
reporting in these circumstances.  
It therefore follows that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mrs Ls favour and instructing 
Tesco to remove the adverse reporting from Mrs Ls credit file as soon as possible. I trust, 
given all that Ive explained here, that Tesco will understand why Ive made the final decision 
that I have. 
Putting things right
Tesco must remove the adverse credit reporting for the month of June 2021 from Mrs Ls 
credit file at the earlier opportunity.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman