DRN-3473021
The complaint
Ms G (by way of a representative) complains Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited,
trading as Mutual, didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks before each loan was
granted. If Mutual had done so, it wouldve realised Ms G wasnt in a position to take on
these loans.
What happened
Ms G was provided with 11 home collected loans between April 2012 and December 2020. 
Ive included some of the information weve received about the loans from Mutual in
the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment per 
loan
1 £300.00 28/04/2012 19/12/2012 51 £8.23
2 £500.00 15/12/2012 06/11/2013 51 £13.72
3 £500.00 09/11/2013 24/09/2014 51 £13.72
4 £500.00 20/09/2014 12/08/2015 51 £13.72
5 £700.00 08/08/2015 27/07/2016 51 £19.21
6 £700.00 23/07/2016 28/06/2017 51 £19.21
7 £700.00 21/06/2017 30/05/2018 51 £19.21
8 £700.00 02/06/2018 29/05/2019 51 £19.21
9 £700.00 25/05/2019 27/05/2020 51 £19.21
10 £700.00 23/05/2020 28/04/2021 51 £19.21
11 £500.00 05/12/2020 18/08/2021* 51 £13.72
*the final response letter showed the final loan was outstanding. But in an email of April 2022 
Mutual provided details of the loans Ms G was granted and the final loan is showing as 
repaid. For the purpose of this decision, Ive assumed the information contained within the 
April 2022 email is correct and the final loan has been repaid. 
Following a complaint by Ms Gs representative, Mutual issued its final response letter, in 
which it explained why it had not considered Ms Gs first four loans because in its view she 
had complained too late about them and so they were out of jurisdiction. 
So, it only considered what happened when loans 5  11 were granted. It didnt uphold these 
loans because Mutual said it had carried out proportionate checks which showed Ms G was 
able to afford these loans. 
Unhappy with this response, Ms Gs representative referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in December 2021. 
The adjudicator who reviewed Ms Gs complaint contacted her representative to find out 
when she realised, she could complain about loans 1  4 and what prompted that complaint. 
However, no response was received to her enquires. 
Therefore, when our adjudicator considered the complaint, she explained that without a 
response from Ms G (or her representative) she had to say loans 1  4 were outside of our 
jurisdiction on the evidence she had. 
She then concluded Mutual ought  not to have provided loans 5  11 because in her view the 
lending was now harmful for Ms G taking into account the amount of time she had been 
indebted to Mutual and the fact the loans were increasing in value. 
Ms Gs representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment, but no further 
comments were provided. 
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response, Mutual provided us a
detailed response as to why it disagreed with the adjudicator. I want to be clear that I've read
the document in full. But in summary, Mutual said:
Its loans are not high cost  Mutual offers a mid-cost product. 
There isnt anything to suggest Ms G was reliant on these loans.
There is no evidence of financial difficulties. 
Ms G was able to sustainably repay these loans in line with industry guidance and 
regulations. 
Mutual carried out  a borrower focused test which analyses the customers income 
and expenditure and assesses whether the customer can afford to repay the weekly 
payments out of their disposable income without undue difficulty and without having 
to reborrow.
There is no requirement for Ms G to have a break between loans.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Neither, Ms G (or her representative) appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings 
about loans 1  4  that these cant be considered. It therefore seems that there is no longer 
a dispute about these loans. So, I say no more about them. 
So instead, this decision will focus on whether Mutual did anything wrong when it lent loans
5 - 11.
Mutual has had other decisions from the Financial Ombudsman Service which detail our 
approach to complaints of this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that 
surround the sale of this type of credit as well as the cost of the product. So Mutual should 
be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont intend to go into detail about that here. But 
a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G could
repay loans 5 - 11 in a sustainable manner.These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have done more to establish that any
lending was sustainable for Ms G. These factors include:
Ms G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms G. The loan payments being
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the time loans 5  11 were lent, Mutual was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority,
who had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable
if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting
other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender
realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their
repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what it means for Ms Gs complaint.
Part of Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to 
Ms G. It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. We have responded to Mutual on 
these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published 
decisions on our website. So, Im not going to deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as 
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its 
identified high cost credit portfolio. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
I havent looked in any great detail about whether the checks for loans 5 - 11 were 
proportionate and Ill explain why below. But what I would say, is that Im not convinced 
given the checks Mutual did carry out at the time, that its checks for these loans were 
proportionate. It looks like, based on what has been provided (application forms from and including loan 5), 
that Mutual took the same sort of information for each loan. Mutual asked Ms G about her 
income and expenditure. It also took details of her partners income. 
Mutual has provided the application forms for the loans that I am considering as part of this 
decision. All the applications have been recorded to show that Ms G was in receipt of state 
benefits and so I think it is fair to conclude, given the details of the application form that her 
income was modest and was fixed in as much as state benefits are.  
Furthermore, at this stage in the lending relationship, I dont think it was reasonable of 
Mutual to have relied solely on what Ms G was telling it. Taking into account the larger loans, 
the continued need for credit and the term of which the loans were repaid. 
Mutual also says it carried out a credit check for at least the final loan. In the final response
letter Mutual explained that it didnt show anything of concern in terms of arrears or defaults.
Mutual also says there were no other signs of financial difficulty.
Mutual has also commented on the gaps between loans  it says There are however 
considerable gaps between the provision of credit. But Mutual seems to be considering
gaps as the difference in time between each new loan being approved. Whereas, any gap, in
our view, needs to be considered from when a loan is repaid to when a new loan is taken
out. So, looking at the loan history, in its totality, there, as far as I can see only five days in 
over nine years of intendedness when Ms G didnt owe Mutual money. 
As I have explained, I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for
these loans because I didnt consider it necessary to do so. Indeed, Id be inclined to think
that from loan 5, Mutuals checks really needed to go further than just relying on the
information Ms G told it. At this point in the lending relationship, I think Mutual ought to have
been verifying Ms Gs income and overall expenditure in order to have an accurate
understanding of her actual financial position.
I say this because Ms G had been indebted for over three years and was now returning for 
her largest capital loan to date and therefore her largest weekly commitment. By this time, it 
ought to have been prudent of Mutual to have taken steps to make sure the information 
Ms G had been providing was accurate.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Ms G, Mutual also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded
during the course of its lending relationship with Ms G. Having looked at the overall pattern 
of Mutuals lending history with Ms G, I agree with our adjudicator that Mutual should
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the
time it provided loan 5. I say this because;
Ms G had been indebted to Mutual for over three years. The loans were intended to 
run for around a year, so Mutual could have expected a longer-term relationship. But 
because these loans often overlapped, meaning her overall indebtedness and weekly 
repayments had increased over this this period. 
So, rather than a picture of decreasing indebtedness which would happen when a 
loan is taken and repaid, there was a pattern of repeated and increasing borrowing. 
I think taking out five high cost loans, over this period, was a strong indicator that 
Ms G was starting to struggle financially.
Loan 5 was also Ms Gs largest capital loan to date, to be repaid over a year and loan four was still outstanding. By loan 5, Ms Gs weekly commitment to Mutual had 
grown to £32.93 per week. A significant increase compared to loan one, some three 
years before where Ms G was committed to paying £8.23. To me, it shows Ms Gs 
overall indebtedness was increasing in an unsustainable way.
The majority of these loans were used to fund yearly expenditures such as holidays. 
It isnt necessarily or automatically unreasonable to use this type of credit to do this. 
But using a high cost form of borrowing over a prolonged period is still likely to have 
caused financial problems, and in this case the evidence suggests it left Ms G with 
little alternative but to borrow again in the future, when these yearly expenditures 
were likely to be incurred again, as she did.
These loans show a broadly similar pattern of borrowing of relatively large capital 
loans. In total, over half were for sums equalling £700. I think its most likely this 
consistent pattern of borrowing over the period showed that Ms G didnt just have a 
short-term cash-flow problem but was probably supporting regular living expenses or 
other financial commitments.
I accept that Ms Gs repayment history may have appeared good (in terms of 
absence of arrears). But the fact that she had taken a number of loans coupled with 
the fact that the loan amounts (and therefore the commitments) were increasing her 
overall indebtedness, supports my view that Ms Gs indebtedness was 
unsustainable.
By the time of loan 11, Ms G was making a commitment to make repayments to 
Mutual for another year, after being almost indebted constantly for well over eight 
years, further pushing her indebtedness out to well over nine years. The amount of 
time that Ms G spent indebted to Mutual meant that she was servicing a debt to 
Mutual over an extended period of time.
I think that Ms G lost out when Mutual provided loans 5 - 11 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Gs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans and time in debt was likely to have had negative
implications on Ms Gs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 11 and Ill go on to set out
what Mutual should do to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms G from loan 5. Clearly there are several 
possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms G may have simply left matters there and
not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed between
her and Mutual which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, she 
may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even 
possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, orindeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms G in a compliant
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms G would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Ms G loans 5 - 11. 
A. Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms G towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms G which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms G originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Mutual should pay the total of A and B to Ms G.
D. The overall pattern of Ms Gs borrowing for loans 5 - 11 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should
give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Gs complaint in part.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman