DRN-2821730
The complaint
 Mr G complains about three loans provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as
Loans 2 Go, which he says were unaffordable.
 
What happened
  Loans 2 Go provided Mr G with three loans. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Instalment Amount Instalments
1 03/09/2018 79.29 350 18 months
2 19/09/2018 65.70 290 18 months
3 03/02/2019 57.14 250 18 months
Mr G says he feels that Loans 2 Go have irresponsibly lent the money to him on each 
occasion.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He thought 
Loans 2 Go should have sought further information and, in each case, if it had, it would have 
seen Mr G was having problems managing his finances. He concluded Loans 2 Go shouldnt 
have agreed to lend to Mr G.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view. It said it carried out proportionate checks 
on each occasion it lent to Mr G.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When Loans 2 Go lent to Mr G the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Loans 2 Go was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Gs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
Loans 2 Go had to consider both the risk to it that Mr G wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr G of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, Loans 2 Go had to consider Mr Gs ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
her financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Gs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Gs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did Loans 2 Go then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks for loans 1-3?
I can see that on each occasion, Loans 2 Go asked Mr G about his income and expenditure. 
It has told our service that it adjusted Mr Gs income and expenditure based on an online 
verification tool for his income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for 
expenditure. It says it made its calculations about Mr Gs expenditure by using what it saw in 
his credit report on each occasion and also added a buffer of 10% for any unexpected 
spend.  
For loan 1, It reduced Mr Gs declared income from £1250 a month to £1079.22 after 
verifying this. It then increased what Mr G says his expenditure was of £440, to £874.83, 
based on checks it carried out this included a credit search. It then added a 10% buffer for 
any fluctuations in spend for Mr G. 
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Mr Gs 
disposable income when it agreed to loan 1. I dont think its checks were proportionate for 
this loan because there was a discrepancy between what Mr G said in particular about his 
expenditure and what it says it could see through its checks. I dont think Loans 2 Go should 
have accepted the loan knowing or having reason to suspect Mr G wasnt being truthful 
about his expenditure in this case. In this instance the discrepancy between what Mr G said his expenditure was and what Loans 2 Go calculated it was, was quite wide. So, I think 
Loans 2 Go should either have carried out further checks to see if there were good reasons 
for this, or its shouldnt have provided Mr G with the loan. This leads me to think that Loans 2 
Go needed to take additional steps to verify what Mr Gs actual monthly expenditure was. 
As I cant see that this Loans 2 Go did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Mr G with loan 1 was reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mr G 
would need to meet his loan repayments over 18 months.
I can see that it was a similar outcome when Loans 2 Go considered Mr Gs application for 
loans 2 and 3 also. The expenditure amount that Mr G declared for loan 2 was £750 and for 
loan 3 was £725. On both occasions Loans 2 Go revised Mr Gs expenditure to £1054.83 for 
loan 2 and £1213.93 for loan 3. Again, there is quite a discrepancy between what Mr G said 
his expenditure was and what Loans 2 Go calculated it to be after it used a credit search. I 
think again it should have carried out further checks at this point to find out more about Mr 
Gs expenditure and carry out a complete review of his finances for much the same reasons 
I have given for why it should have done this for loan 1.
So, as I have concluded that Loans 2 Go needed to carry out further checks for all three 
loans, I need to consider what it would have seen if it had done so. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown for loans 1-3?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Mr G would have been unable 
to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Mr G could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided including reviewing bank statements that 
Mr G has provided for the months leading up to his applications for the loans. Having done 
so, its clear Mr G was gambling significant amounts of money at the time he asked for all 
three loans. In these circumstances, it is apparent to me that Mr G was unlikely to have been 
able to repay the three loans without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty. It is 
clear from what I have seen that Mr G was spending significant sums of money on gambling 
and was having problems managing his finances. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown L2G that Mr G would not have been able to sustainably 
repay this loan. So, Im satisfied that L2Gs failure to carry out proportionate checks resulted 
in it unfairly providing these three loans to Mr G.
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right with loans 1-3 for the reasons given above.
  
Putting things right
 In line with this Services approach, Mr G shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for each loan. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:add up the total amount of money Mr G received as a result of being given loans 1-3. 
The payments Mr G made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr G was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr G to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Gs credit file because of loans 1-3;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint for the reasons set out above and require 
Loans 2 Go Limited, to put things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman