DRN-3043326
The complaint
Mr D says TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr D took out a guarantor loan from TFS in March 2015. It was for £7,500 over 60 months.
The monthly repayment was £279.25 and the total repayable was £16,775.
Mr D says TFS didnt carry out effective affordability checks and had it done so it wouldnt 
have lent to him.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said TFS didnt make a 
fair lending decision based on the information it gathered as part of its checks.
TFS disagreed saying it had an accurate understanding of Mr Ds financial circumstances 
and from this it deemed the loan to be affordable.
As agreement wasnt reached, the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS lent to Mr D. Its rules
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged TFS to lend
responsibly. Amongst other things, TFS was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Mr D could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr D. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr D.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr D, and have considered the following questions:
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ds
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Mr D before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of his income, his monthly living costs and his existing credit commitments. It checked his
declared income against recent bank statements and using an income verification tool. It 
checked his credit file to understand his credit history. It also asked about the purpose of the 
loan which was to debt consolidation. From these checks combined TFS concluded Mr D 
would have around £390 of monthly disposable income after making this loan repayment 
and so it was affordable.
I think the checks TFS carried out were proportionate, but Im not persuaded it responded 
appropriately to the information it gathered and made a fair lending decision.
I think Mr Ds credit file showed he was having problems managing his money. He had 
defaulted on a current account less than 12 months prior and it seems had a long-term 
payment plan (3% of balance) in place to repay that debt. His buy-to-let mortgage had been 
in arrears for nine out of the previous 12 months and hed needed an arrangement-to-pay to 
be put in place to help him manage that debt. He had also missed three payments on a 
credit card account in the last seven months. So in the round I think TFS ought to have been 
concerned Mr Ds finances were under pressure and further borrowing might not be 
sustainable.  
I note this loan was to consolidate debts (he told TFS he would be repaying £5000 on a 
credit card and a £2500 loan with a high street bank) so that would reduce his monthly credit 
commitments. But whilst it might have been reducing Mr Ds outgoings on a monthly basis, 
the loan increased his overall indebtedness and most likely prolonged the time he would be 
servicing high-cost debt. 
And to meet its obligations TFS needed to check not just the pounds and pence affordability 
but also that Mr D would not suffer adverse financial consequences from getting the loan. 
CONC 5.3.1(G) stated:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firmshould take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Given the nature of the debt Mr D was using the loan to clear I think its
reasonable to assume it was likely on a lower or comparable interest rate - yet taking
the loan was increasing his overall indebtedness by over £10,000 (assuming he used the 
loan to clear his current debt in full). So in the round I dont think TFS can reasonably argue 
that giving the loan to Mr D wasnt most likely to have an adverse impact on his financial 
situation. 
In addition TFS had copies of Mr Ds recent bank statements and I cant see it used them 
fully to inform its decision or to verify his declared expenses. They showed - as the credit 
check did  that Mr Ds finances were under pressure. He was regularly overdrawn despite 
having no arranged overdraft facility and so was incurring charges for this, and several 
cheques were returned unpaid.
It follows I think there was sufficient evidence that TFS ought to have realised there was a 
risk the loan would not be sustainably affordable over a five-year term for Mr D. And so it 
was wrong to give the loan to Mr D.
I havent found any evidence that TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D in some 
other way.
 
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr D to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and TFS needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr D made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ds loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ds loan account results in an outstanding capital balance TFS must
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr D, remembering its obligation to
treat him positively and sympathetically if he is having financial difficulties.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mr D a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ds complaint. TFS Loans Limited must put things right as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman