DRN-2725550
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) hasnt settled their claim on their 
buildings insurance policy fairly which has caused them financial difficulty, stress and upset. 
They also think HDI has unreasonably declined to cover their surveyors fees and extend 
their alternative accommodation.
Previously, the administrator of the policy handled the complaint on HDIs behalf. But as HDI 
is the insurer, the complaint has been set up against it. References to HDI include its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have a buildings insurance policy which covers their home and contents. 
Around July 2018, they made a claim following an escape of water under their downstairs 
floor. Initially, they stayed at the house whilst works started. But after identifying further work 
was needed in the kitchen, they moved to alternative accommodation. For around a year, 
drying and strip out work took place and Mr and Mrs G arranged quotes from contractors.
Around January 2020, HDI sent an email to Mr and Mrs G agreeing they could instruct their 
own surveyor to act for them and outlining the fees usually covered. A few days later, it 
carried out a site visit. Their surveyor drew up a schedule of works which was submitted for 
tender. The tenders from contractors suggested the works would cost between around 
£220,000 and £235,000  so HDI thought the schedule mustve been overstated. 
Mr and Mrs G say all work had been agreed at the site visit.
As a result, HDI arranged for a chartered engineer  Mr B  to look at things again and a 
new schedule was drawn up which HDI says was costed by a quantity surveyor and verified 
by its contractor network. Following this, it paid Mr and Mrs G just under £115,000 (less what 
it had already paid) which it said would cover the remaining works. Mr and Mrs G say Mr B 
watered down the scope of works and costing. In particular they didnt agree the offer 
covered all damage or was enough to put the kitchen back to the standard it was before. In 
particular, they disagree over who originally supplied the kitchen. HDI thinks it was supplied 
by a national branded kitchen company (H) whereas Mr and Mrs G think its a bespoke 
kitchen. They both gave us emails to support what they think.
Mr and Mrs G were also unhappy HDI refused to cover the cost of their surveyors fees as 
part of its offer. It said this was because it was concerned hed overstated things. At this 
point, HDI agreed to extend Mr and Mrs Gs alternative accommodation by around three 
months due to delays to the work caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
 In November 2020, HDI declined Mr and Mrs Gs request to extend their accommodation 
again. It said itd paid enough to make their home habitable. Mr and Mrs G said work was 
delayed due to the pandemic and because of a lack of funds. They also thought HDI should 
cover the cost of work in the garden which they couldnt maintain while they were away.
Unable to reach an agreement, Mr and Mrs G asked our service to look into things. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with our investigator. They 
said theyd taken out a loan to make ends meet and carry out the repairs. As the complaint 
wasnt resolved at that stage, it was passed to me to decide.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2021. I thought it should be 
upheld in part only. I thought in summary:
Considering the history of the claim, it was reasonable for HDI to offer a cash settlement. 
The dispute over the offer was because the parties disagreed about the necessary work 
and not because HDI offered less than market rate. I didnt think there was evidence to 
suggest HDI had based its offer on a discounted rate. 
Parts of the kitchen, including the appliances and worktops, hadnt been damaged and 
didnt need matching in  so they didnt need replacing under the policy terms. 
It was more likely the kitchen was from H as HDI had given us details of a conversation it 
had with the previous owner of the property who said it was. So I thought the offer HDI 
had made to replace it was fair. 
It wouldnt be fair to ask HDI to base its offer on the quotes Mr and Mrs G had provided 
as it would likely put them in a better position than they were in before the damage. 
The delay in works starting which meant Mr and Mrs G had to stay in alternative 
accommodation for longer was because they didnt have enough funds to cover all of the 
works they wanted. And I didnt think it was due to the coronavirus pandemic. 
I thought Mr and Mrs G couldve used the funds to make their home habitable whilst the 
dispute over the settlement amount was ongoing. So I didnt think HDI shouldve 
extended the alternative accommodation. 
HDI declined to pay anything further towards alternative accommodation because the 
property couldve been made habitable and not because the policy limit was reached. So 
I didnt think it mattered the claim had been dealt with as two separate claims.  
The amount offered by HDI to cover the repairs was reasonable so I didnt agree it 
should cover the cost of the borrowing Mr and Mrs G had taken out to cover the repairs. 
Had Mr and Mrs G been living in their home, they wouldve had to regularly maintain 
their garden or cover the cost of this work. So I thought asking HDI to cover the cost 
would put them in a better position than they otherwise wouldve been. And I thought this 
was an indirect loss which isnt covered under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs G couldve chosen accommodation that didnt need maintenance as part of 
the contract so they could maintain their own home. And I didnt think maintaining the 
garden whilst living elsewhere is an unusual inconvenience of this type of claim. 
Its not unreasonable HDIs offer doesnt include the payment of value added tax (VAT) 
upfront as not all contractors will be registered to charge VAT. 
HDI had agreed to cover surveyor fees at a maximum of 10% of a £100,000 claim and 
less for higher claims. So I didnt think it had agreed to cover the level of fees 
Mr and Mrs G are claiming for. HDI should pay the hourly rate of the surveyor for the amount of time he spent at the two 
site visits and drawing up the schedule rather than all of his fees because its likely he 
overestimated and delayed the claim. But as Mr and Mrs G were told their surveyors 
fees would be covered, I didnt think they should cover the full cost themselves either.  
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached my final decision. HDI 
said it thought Id reached a fair outcome and it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs G 
gave a number of comments and documents. Much of what theyve sent us has been 
provided before. So Ive focussed on their new points  or points I didnt specifically 
comment on in my provisional decision. In summary these were:
HDI hasnt allowed for increased contractor prices due to the coronavirus pandemic.
HDI hasnt paid towards the underfloor heating which the contractors who carried out the 
strip out confirmed was there. They dont think the evidence requested by HDI to support 
their claim is reasonable. 
The cost of reinstating the downstairs study and the flooring should be covered.
Mr and Mrs G think I said they shouldve taken smaller alternative accommodation but 
theyre entitled to similar accommodation to their property.
HDI has said it will compensate Mr and Mrs G for any cost above their usual living 
expenses. So they think it should cover the cost of the garden maintenance work.
The policy terms dont say theres a limit on how much HDI will pay towards surveyor 
fees  only that it needs to consent to them. Mr and Mrs G have provided an invoice from 
their surveyor with a breakdown of his costs totalling around £17,000.
The cheapest quote they were able to get to fit a new kitchen was £101,000 and that 
kitchen fitter said their kitchen couldnt be reused. 
The settlement amount for the kitchen didnt include the fitting. 
The kitchen worktop was damaged and Mr and Mrs G werent told to keep it after the strip 
out. In any event theyre entitled to a full replacement of the kitchen anyway.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint in part only. This is mainly 
for the reasons already outlined in my provisional decision. But Ive also considered the 
points Mr and Mrs G have made carefully to decide whether they have shown, on the 
balance of probabilities, HDI has settled their claim unfairly. And I dont think they have.
Increased cost of contractors
Mr and Mrs G havent given me evidence to show its more likely the difference in cost 
between what theyll need to pay for the reinstatement works and what HDI already paid 
them is due to the pandemic. I appreciate theyve given us emails from contractors which 
they think show any delays to works starting were caused by the pandemic. And some of 
these emails suggest the offer from HDI isnt enough. But Im not satisfied these show the 
cost of works on this property is higher specifically because of the pandemic. In any event, even if there has been an impact on cost caused by the pandemic, I think its 
likely this mightve been lessened by Mr and Mrs G starting the works sooner once the 
settlement offer was made. And Im satisfied HDI wasnt responsible for those delays. 
Underfloor heating
Mr and Mrs G have sent me a letter from the contractors who carried out the strip out 
confirming they removed the underfloor heating. But from what Ive seen, whilst HDI initially 
questioned whether underfloor heating was throughout the ground floor of the property, its 
main concern was whether it was in working order before the escape of water. 
I understand Mr and Mrs G think HDIs request for utility bills and locations and pictures of 
thermostats is unreasonable considering the amount of time thats passed. But I dont think it 
wouldve been impossible for them to obtain utility bills (or even bank statements showing 
the payments) from before the incident at the time they were requested. And Mr and Mrs G 
have said the surveyors saw the thermostats in the first site visit in January 2020  which 
was only three months before the further evidence was requested in April 2020. As I 
understand no reinstatement works had taken place between these two dates, I cant see 
why this couldnt be provided at the time. So I dont think its unreasonable HDI declined this 
part of the claim in absence of the further evidence.
Study
Mr and Mrs G have said HDI hasnt covered the cost of reinstating their study. Theyve said 
it removed the floor tiles and marble door thresholds but didnt replace them. But HDI has 
said the damp reports show the study wasnt affected by the floor and these things werent 
removed. I cant see that Mr and Mrs G have given us any evidence to support what theyve 
said so Im not persuaded by their version of events. 
Garden maintenance
I dont agree with Mr and Mrs G that I said in my provisional decision they shouldve taken 
smaller accommodation. Instead, I said they couldve chosen accommodation which didnt 
require them to maintain it under the contract, making it difficult for them to maintain their 
own home at the same time. So I dont think it makes a difference in this case that the policy 
covers the cost of similar alternative accommodation. 
Mr and Mrs G say the cost of maintaining their garden should be covered by HDI as a cost 
above their usual living expenses. But had they been living at home, they wouldve had to 
regularly maintain their garden or cover the cost of it themselves. So I dont think the cost of 
this is above their usual expenses. And in any event, I think this cost is excluded under the 
policy terms as it was caused indirectly by the loss claimed for. 
Surveyor fees
Mr and Mrs G have highlighted the section of the policy terms relating to surveyor fees. They 
say the only requirement is that HDI must consent to cover the fees but theres no limit on 
how much it will pay. But Ive looked carefully at the emails between the parties and I think 
HDI only consented to cover a certain amount of fees which it outlined to Mr and Mrs G. 
Having looked at the policy book carefully, Im not persuaded it acted outside the terms of 
the policy in doing this. And Im satisfied Mr and Mrs G accepted what HDI had said. 
Considering the points of disagreement and the things the surveyor included in the claim, I 
accept its more likely he overestimated it. So I dont think it would be fair to require HDI to 
cover his full costs  particularly as what it agreed to pay is based on the total claim amount. kitchen reinstatement works
Ive looked at the breakdown of HDIs offer sent in May 2020. And I can see the amount 
offered did include the labour cost for fitting the kitchen. 
Mr and Mrs G have provided information to show the minimum amount supplying and fitting 
a new kitchen would cost is £101,000. Theyve also said their kitchen was beyond repair and 
couldnt be reused. But HDIs offer was to cover the cost of replacing the damaged parts of 
the kitchen and only excluded the appliances, worktop and splashback tiling.
From the evidence, I dont think these parts of the kitchen were damaged and Mr and Mrs G 
havent given me enough information to show otherwise. Instead, until now, theyve said they 
should be replaced because thats what they think they were entitled to under the policy and 
theyre worried the old appliances wont fit into the new kitchen. So Im not satisfied from 
what Ive seen, these items were damaged and I dont think the policy covers their 
replacement. 
I understand Mr and Mrs G have said they werent told to keep some parts of the kitchen  
including the worktop. Theyve said they were damaged and discarded. But as above, I 
havent seen any evidence that suggests the worktops had been damaged. In any event, 
under the terms, policyholders are directed not to dispose of any damaged items until 
theyve been inspected by HDI. And I cant see that HDI accepted theyd been damaged at 
any point. So I dont think I can hold it responsible if Mr and Mrs G either disposed of the 
items before this happened  or without HDI accepting theyd been damaged.
I know Mr and Mrs G still dont accept their kitchen was from H. And theyve provided a 
further email from a branch of H to show this. But considering the time thats passed and the 
number of ranges H wouldve sold over the years, I think its likely it might not recognise it. 
And Im more persuaded by the evidence HDI has provided about the conversation with the 
previous owner of the property who fitted the kitchen confirming it was supplied by H. So I 
think the offer HDI has made is fair.
Putting things right
I think its reasonable for HDI to pay the hourly rate of Mr and Mrs Gs surveyor at £145 plus 
VAT for the amount of time he spent at the two site visits in January and February 2020 and 
drawing up the schedule upon sufficient and acceptable evidence from Mr and Mrs G. And 
for the reasons Ive given, I dont think HDI needs to pay anything further towards the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint in part and direct HDI Global Speciality SE to put things right by doing what Ive 
said above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G 
and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
  
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman