DRN-2895852
The complaint
Mr S, a sole trader, complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined his application for a 
Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr S applied for a Bounce Back Loan on 4 May 2020. But this, along with two subsequent 
applications he made in August, was declined. Santander said it had been unable to verify 
the turnover amount Mr S had declared and, as such, wasnt prepared to grant him a 
Bounce Back Loan. 
Unhappy with Santanders decision, Mr S complained. He said hed provided additional 
information that the bank had requested  specifically tax documentation  and hed given 
further explanation around his business turnover. Mr S felt the bank had no right to decline 
his application. 
Santander didnt change its decision. In response to Mr Ss complaint, the bank reiterated 
that the information it had assessed when reviewing his applications didnt support the 
turnover hed declared. Santander also said that, while the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was 
government backed, it had to remain responsible and conduct the necessary checks before 
agreeing to lend.
 
M S remained unhappy, so he referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators 
reviewed Mr Ss complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, he thought 
that Santander had assessed Mr Ss applications in line with the Scheme rules. He found 
that the bank had been unable to verify Mr Ss declared turnover and, on that basis, he 
thought its decision to decline the applications was reasonable.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators opinion. He maintained that his application for a 
Bounce Back Loan had been unfairly declined. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why but, in doing so  while I have read everything Mr S has said 
 I wont comment on every point hes raised. Rather, my findings focus on the matters I 
consider most relevant to how Ive reached my decision. 
At the outset, Ill also say that Im aware Mr S is unhappy about Santander closing his 
accounts. But as our investigator has already pointed out, thats a separate issue. So, Ive 
not considered it as part of this complaint or addressed it in this decision.
 
Turning to the matter at hand, the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was designed to allow 
businesses to access lending quickly. And the process itself was generally reliant on self-
declarations made by the applicant during an online process.
 
Moreover, applicants couldnt demand that lenders provide a Bounce Back Loan. The 
Scheme rules set out that the decision to lend ultimately lied with the lender. And in reaching 
that decision, there were certain checks that had to be carried out before a loan was 
provided  including fraud, anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks.
As a part of those necessary checks, lenders could ask for further information to help verify 
the declarations made by an applicant. So, I dont think Santander acted unreasonably when 
it asked Mr S to provide some additional tax documentation that would help verify his 
business turnover  given this was in-keeping with the checks the bank was expected to 
undertake.
Having reviewed Santanders internal records, Ive seen that the three applications Mr S 
submitted each contained a different turnover figure. And, each time, the information 
available to the bank when it assessed his application (including the tax documentation and 
further context Mr S had provided) showed a much lower figure than what Mr S had 
declared. As a result, Santander couldnt verify the turnover figures Mr S had stated in his 
applications  so it declined them. And theres nothing which leads me to think the banks 
decision was unfair or unreasonable.
  
Mr S feels he provided enough detail for Santander to understand the turnover of his 
business, and for it to approve his application for a Bounce Back Loan. So, he wanted to 
know exactly how the bank had reached its decision. But there was no obligation on 
Santander to divulge the level of detail Mr S wanted, and nor can I compel it to do so. 
Rather, it was enough for the bank to explain that the application had been declined as a 
result of the checks it had carried out.
 
Im aware that Mr S feels the banks decision not to approve his Bounce Back Loan 
application is discriminatory. But I dont think Santander applied any unnecessary scrutiny 
toward his applications. Instead, Im satisfied that Santander has shown it had some 
legitimate questions over his applications. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that the bank 
acted in a discriminatory manner toward Mr S, or that it treated him differently to any other 
customer.
 
In conclusion, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Santander did anything wrong 
in how it handled Mr Ss applications. And it follows that I dont require the bank to take any 
further action.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman