DRN-2255817
The complaint
 This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
with a store card in November 1997. The credit facility was provided by a high street 
bank, but there has been a change in the company which is now responsible for 
answering these types of complaint. The company now responsible is called AXA France 
IARD.
Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA throughout this final decision.
 
What happened
 The store card was taken out in a store and obtained by filling out an application leaflet and 
credit agreement. PPI was added on to the card and Mr G says he wasnt given a choice 
about taking out PPI and doesnt remember being told much about it.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it should be 
upheld. AXA disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I was sent the application form and credit agreement Mr G signed when he took out the 
store card account and PPI in November 1997. I can certainly see quite a few ways in 
which this form could have been set out in a clearer way, not least because the section 
about PPI only sets out limited information about the cover and doesnt give details about 
cost. 
Nevertheless, AXA provided a non-advised sale and this means it didnt need to make 
sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Gs situation. But it still needed to provide enough clear 
information for Mr G to make an informed decision about the cover  and this is where I 
think AXA fell short of its responsibilities.
And that could have been a problem for Mr G because he told us about an operation he 
had in 1978 following an accident. The consequences of that operation meant that he 
would be at an increased risk of infection for the rest of his life. He therefore takes daily 
medication. 
When Mr G applied for the store card and PPI, however, there was no readily available 
information which pointed out what the actual terms of the PPI policy were. The policy may 
not have provided cover had Mr G needed time off work because of this.  
Our experience tells us that as a result of the increased risk of infection, Mr G may have 
had difficulty when making a successful claim on his PPI. If hed therefore needed to take 
time off work as a consequence, its likely that the PPI wouldnt be of any use to him. On 
that basis, I think the policy was mis-sold and that Mr G wouldnt have taken it out had he 
been given better information about the cover at the time. 
In response to AXAs request, Mr G gave us some more information about his condition. 
Whilst he hasnt taken time off work for a reason linked to infection and it doesnt affect 
him on a day-to-day basis, I need to consider what the position could have been had 
Mr G needed to make a claim. And given the increased level of health risk and the fact 
this was a chronic condition that Mr G was dealing with regularly, I think it would have 
been uppermost in his mind as a reason he was likely to need to take time off work in the 
future. So, I think AXA ought to have done more to bring the main terms and policy 
exclusions to Mr Gs attention so that Mr G could be aware them. And if it had done, I 
think Mr G would have avoided a policy that most likely wouldnt have provided cover to 
him for the thing he would have considered most likely to cause him to take time off work 
in the future.
Putting things right
 AXA should put Mr G in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already and AXA should:
Pay Mr G the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest 8% a year from .
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct AXA France IARD to 
pay the above compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman