DRN-2414501
The complaint
Mr E says that Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
 Mr E has said to us They gave me a loan, they didn't check my income, I don't work, I have 
over 4000 pounds debts including few loans I can't already pay off, my credit rating is terrible 
but they are claiming they checked everything.
Cashfloat approved Mr E for one loan of £500 on 28 July 2019, repayable in four instalments 
of just over £203, the last payment date scheduled to have been 29 November 2019. Mr E 
received the funds around that date. A couple of days later, on 2 August 2019, Mr E emailed 
Cashfloat to say that this was an example of irresponsible lending. He explained that he did 
not have a job, received about £287 a month and with the few outgoings he had and debts 
already in existence he would have to go straight into a repayment plan. He offered around 
£20 a month and then £10 a month was set up and at one point paid less than that.
Mr E received a final response from Cashfloat dated 30 August 2019 in which it said it did 
not uphold his complaint. Mr E referred it to this service in early September 2019.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and could see that Cashfloat had done what 
he considered to have been proportionate checks and so did not think that it needed to do 
more.
Mr E did not agree and asked for an ombudsman to review it. The complaint remained 
unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 November 2020 which was that I planned to uphold 
Mr Es complaint, but I did not think that Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, need do 
more than it had done already. My provisional findings are set out in the next section of this 
final decision for completeness. 
I invited the parties to reply by 9 December 2020. We have not heard from Cashfloat. Mr E 
has replied and said that he is happy as long as I get money back that I paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
My provisional decision findings
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include: where a 
customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are particularly high; and/or where the 
frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a customer has been given loans need to be 
looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But as Mr E took only one loan then this does not 
apply to his circumstances.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr E could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether 
the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because 
the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the ability to repay without 
undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower 
will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Cashfloat has said that it carried out proportionate checks including verification of his income, and a 
credit search.
Prior to approving any customer loans, we use robust systems and procedures for assessing 
an applicants creditworthiness and ability to repay. Our affordability assessment incorporates 
numerous unique customer specific variables. As well as using verified information obtained 
from the applicant, we also consider an applicants previous loan repayment history with us, 
credit-scoring information from Credit Reference Agencies, plus various other third-party 
reports.
Cashfloat explained in its final response letter to Mr E that it utilised his declared income of
£2,000 from full time employment and expenditure of around £157. It acknowledged that Mr E had 
explained he was living at home with his parents and had no dependents, and so his expenditure was 
not likely to be high. Cashfloats decision was that Mr E would have been left with enough funds to 
repay the loan at £203 a month and not have problems with his own financial commitments. The 
credit search results Cashfloat have sent to us do show income level and relatively modest expenses 
its at decided that this loan was affordable.
Mr E says that this cannot be right as he had lots of outstanding debt and he had no job and was on 
Universal Credit (UC). Mr E has sent to me the records of what UC he received in the months leading 
up to the July 2019 loan approval. He received around £286 a month.
Cashfloat has explained to us that it is, and was, reasonable for a lender to rely on Mr Es declared 
income and outgoings in the early stages of its lending relationship with him as this was Mr Es first 
loan. I asked Cashfloat about how such a discrepancy could have arisen: Mr E saying he had no job 
and was on UC, and Cashfloat saying it verified his income declared to it of £2,000 a month. 
Cashfloat has described the verification of his income as a process whereby the credit agency sends 
it a result. Here for Mr E it was 'low' and Cashfloat explained to me that  low result does not advise the exact amount that is paid into a bank account. However, it does gives us confidence that the bank 
details given are correct and the account is actively used.
This likely explains why the massive discrepancy between £2,000 and £286 a month income was not 
picked up. And so, I do think that Cashfloat could, usually, rely on the declared income from a 
customer, but having verified it and done a full credit search then I think that the checks were lacking. 
I plan to uphold Mr Es complaint.
Having said that, I also find it very unusual that Mr E applied for the loan, was offered and took the 
funds on 28 July 2019, and within two days sent to Cashfloat quite different information about his 
income and expenditure giving an altogether different picture of a person clearly not able to afford 
£203 a month in repayments.
So, in these circumstances surrounding Mr Es situation, I do plan to uphold the complaint but I do not 
plan to direct that Cashfloat does any more that it has already. And I have come to this provisional 
decision because I understand that Mr E and Cashfloat came to an arrangement in June 2020 leading 
to the account being closed. Mr E agreed a reduced settlement balance on 25 June 2020 and paid it 
off. The effective result is that the interest paid by Mr E for that £500 loan principal sum was around 
£13.
In July 2020 Mr E and Cashfloat corresponded further about the credit file entry for this loan  that it 
should have shown as being paid and settled. After some updating carried out by the credit agency 
then it seems that this was resolved and Mr Es loan was recorded correctly. My view is that suffices.
This provisional decision was sent to both parties on 25 November 2020 and comments or 
additional evidence was invited from both.
My final decision findings
Mr E has responded to say that he is happy as long as I get money back that I paid. My 
provisional decision was that Cashfloat had done something wrong when approving this 
£500 loan for Mr E, but that Cashfloat need not do more than it has already done, this 
means that I was not planning to ask Cashfloat to pay more to Mr E. The settlement of the 
loan earlier this year led to Mr E having paid £13 in interest overall. So, Mr Es response to 
that provisional decision appears to be that he does not agree with it. 
Overall I think its fair that the parties have got to a position earlier this year where Cashfloat 
offered a reduced settlement figure which Mr E agreed to and having repaid that sum the 
cost to Mr E was £13 overall. So, I dont think that I need interfere with that repayment 
arrangement agreed earlier this year. The credit file was amended to reflect the correct 
position as well. 
If Mr Es recent reference to I get money back that I paid is referring to a desire to have the 
principal sum of £500 repaid to him then that is not something that I consider justified. It is 
not usual for this service to agree to a write-off of any principal sums unless the 
circumstances lead to that being a fair and reasonable direction. Here I do not think that is 
justified. As Mr E will have received and had the benefit of that £500 its only right that it was 
paid back to Cashfloat. I understand that was repaid and so nothing more needs to be done 
by him.
Mr E gave no explanation as to what he meant by his statement in response to my 
provisional decision, so I have decided that theres no reason to alter the findings in my 
provisional decision and I repeat them here as part of this final decision.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint but I do not think that either party needs to do more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman