DRN-2863660
The complaint
Miss D complains that a car she paid for using her credit card issued by Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC (Tesco) was not of satisfactory quality. She says that Tesco should refund the 
price of the car, either through the chargeback process or under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Miss D paid £1,650 for a car using her Tesco credit card. Within a fairly short time the car 
started to develop faults; an engineer concluded that it was unsafe and unroadworthy. The 
selling dealership refused to address the faults that had been identified and so Miss D 
approached Tesco to see if it would provide a refund.
Tesco sought to recover the payment through the chargeback process, but the dealership 
successfully defended its position on the basis that the car had been sold as seen.
Tesco therefore considered whether it should refund Miss D under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that the sale contract had not been between the dealer 
and Miss D, but that the car had in fact been sold to her partner, Mr M. Section 75 did not 
therefore apply to this situation and it had no liability to Miss D.
Miss D did not accept that and referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered what had happened. He noted that Miss D was a named driver on 
the cars insurance and concluded that the car had been bought for her use as well as that of 
Mr M. He recommended that Tesco refund the purchase price of £1,650.
Tesco did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from that 
reached by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. In summary, I said that I thought 
Tesco had done enough to try to recover Miss Ds payment through the chargeback, 
although it had not been successful. I also thought that the contract for the sale of the car 
had been with Mr M, not with Miss D. Because of that, section 75 had no application in this 
case. 
Miss D did not accept my provisional findings. On her behalf Mr M said that the car had been 
bought so that Miss D could drive him around and for Miss Ds own use. The car was kept at 
her address. Had there been room for more than one signature on the sales invoice, she 
would have signed it. He explained that Miss D had used her credit card to pay for the car 
precisely so she could claim under section 75 should she need to do so.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall deal first of all with the chargeback. Chargeback is largely an administrative process 
for dealing with disputed card payments. It can enable customers to obtain refunds where, 
for example, goods are not delivered or are not as described, as well as where there is a 
dispute about the actual payment. The issue here however concerned the quality of the car. 
There is no dispute about the payment  that is, it was taken as Miss D intended. 
Nevertheless, I note that Tesco attempted to obtain a refund, but was not successful. I do 
not believe I can fairly say it should have done more in this case.
I turn then to section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. One effect of section 75 is that, 
where a consumer uses a credit card to pay for goods and they have a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation against the supplier of those goods, they have a like claim 
against the credit card provider.
In this case, Miss D is Tescos customer (or debtor to use the terminology in the Act). The 
car dealership was the supplier and Tesco was the creditor. For section 75 to apply, the 
debtor must have a claim against the supplier. But Miss D can only have a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against the dealership if she had a contract with it.
The investigator noted that the sales invoice was made out in Mr Ms name and that he had 
signed it. He noted too however that Miss D had been present at the purchase and was a 
named driver on the cars insurance. He concluded that the car was to be used by both of 
them and that Miss D was therefore a contracting party.
I am afraid however that I do not agree with that analysis. Whilst the name on the invoice is 
not necessarily conclusive of the point, it is persuasive evidence of who the contracting party 
was. I do not believe that Miss D was a party to the contract with the supplier. There is no 
reference to her in any of the sales documentation and I do not believe that any 
arrangements she may have made with Mr M and his insurers change that. Put another way, 
I think it most unlikely that she would have been able to sue the dealership for breach of 
contract, even if the car was not of satisfactory quality. 
In reaching that conclusion, I have considered carefully what Mr M and Miss D have said 
about the use to which the car was to be put and the benefit each of them expected to 
receive from it. 
I make no comment however about the merits of any claim Mr M may have against the 
dealership; my observation only concerns Miss Ds standing to bring a claim under section 
75.
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Tesco Personal Finance to do 
any more to resolve Miss Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman