DRN-1594931
 
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs E says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs E took out on a store card account in March 1998. It 
was added to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Mrs E says she never knew she had PPI and so wouldnt have been able to use it if needed. 
She says she cant recall PPI being on any of her statements for the store card. She thinks 
AXA mis-sold the policy to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs E has said she never knew she had PPI. But I think on balance AXA made Mrs E aware 
that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. I say this because 
AXA has given us a copy of the store card application form from the time of sale. This shows 
there was a separate section for PPI and that it is presented as optional. 
There is a separate section for PPI. Within this section a box is ticked indicating that it has 
been chosen. Had Mrs E not wanted the PPI she could have completed the application 
without the box being ticked.
So, on balance, I think Mrs E was aware the policy was optional and she agreed to take it 
out by signing the application form, agreeing to what was presented within it.
This application was made by Mrs E in a store. So because of this, I dont think a 
recommendation was made by AXA. So AXA didnt have to check if the policy was suitable 
for her. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs E enough information so she could make 
an informed choice whether the policy was right for her.Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs E would have acted differently and not bought the policy, 
if better information had been provided. And on balance I dont think better information 
wouldve led her to act differently.
Mrs E has told us she had at least 3 months sick pay from her employer. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any provisions Mrs E would receive. I think taking into 
consideration what Mrs E has said about her circumstances, the PPI would have been useful 
to her in that her store card payments would be met. I also couldnt see any significant or 
limiting terms that would have affected Mrs Es decision to take the policy out either.
Im not sure AXA gave clear information on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think this 
would have affected Mrs Es decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Es comments and acknowledge what she has said about her 
store card statements, but for the reasons mentioned above, these points dont change my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman