DRN-3225297
The complaint
Miss B is complaining that she thinks a car Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) supplied her under a hire purchase agreement was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2018 Miss B acquired a new car from VWFS through a hire purchase agreement. 
The cash price of the car was around £9,500.
In January 2021 Miss B says the car developed some faults  the heater and rear 
windscreen wiper stopped working. The supplying dealership took the car back and said it 
would fix it. Miss B was unhappy with how long the repairs took. She said she was a key 
worker and needed the car to get to work. She said she had to borrow a car from a friend 
and had to pay extra to insure it. She said, paying for that car and the car VWFS supplied, 
put her into financial difficulties. And she was unhappy she wasnt given a courtesy car.
The dealership eventually repaired the car, but Miss B didnt want it back as she said shed 
lost faith in it. So she didnt collect it and she complained to VWFS that she wanted to reject 
it. VWFS didnt think she could reject it. It highlighted shed had the car for nearly three 
years, so it didnt think the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. It said 
faults will materialise on a car, but this doesnt make it of unsatisfactory quality. And it said 
the repairs were carried out through the warranty that was provided with the car.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as he thought the faults appeared to be down to 
a reasonable level of wear and tear. He said he hadnt seen any evidence that the issues 
were present or developing at the point of sale. So, he thought the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied.
He acknowledged Miss B was unhappy she wasnt given a courtesy car, but he said, as he 
didnt think VWFS were responsible for the repairs, it wasnt required to provide Miss B with 
a courtesy car.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She maintained it was unfair that it took 
nearly two months to fix the car and she said she was given no information during that time. 
As Miss B didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Miss B is fundamentally unhappy with the length of time it took the supplying dealership to 
repair the car and also the service she was given during this time. Its importantly to highlight 
that the supplying dealership and VWFS are two separate entities. I think the fundamental 
issue here is whether I can hold VWFS responsible for the actions of the supplying 
dealership  i.e. was the dealership repairing the car on behalf of VWFS or under any other 
responsibility.
Miss B acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implied a term into the hire purchase agreement that the car 
must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, VWFS is responsible for 
the quality of the car its provided under the agreement. Theres no dispute that theres a 
fault with the car, but the issue is whether that fault makes the car of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied.
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this case, Miss B acquired a 
new car and paid around £9,500 for the car.  
I think the key issue here is whether those problems were likely to have been present or 
developing at the time of sale, as opposed to natural and inevitable wear and tear in a used 
car. Ive also considered whether a reasonable person would expect there to be problems 
such as Miss B has experienced in a car of this price, age and mileage  in short is the car 
sufficiently durable. 
The car appeared to be fault free for nearly three years before the issues in question arose. 
So, given the length of time thats passed, I dont think I can say these faults were present or 
developing at the point of supply. However, durability of a car is also an important 
consideration when thinking about satisfactory  i.e. would a reasonable person expect to 
see the faults that arose when they did.
I do not dispute the faults were inconvenient to Miss B, but from what I seen, they do seem 
to be minor in their nature and likely to be down to natural wear and tear. So I dont think I 
can say they mean the car wasnt durable. I can appreciate why Miss B was unhappy that 
the faults arose when they did. But I dont think they meant the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when VWFS supplied it to her.
Miss B was given a three-year warranty when she acquired the car. I understand this 
warranty was provided by the cars manufacturer through the supplying dealership. It seems 
to me Miss Bs car was repaired under the warranty, not because of any liability VWFS had 
under the hire purchase agreement. VWFS was not a party to the warranty agreement she 
was given. So it follows that its not liable for the supplying dealerships actions in regards to 
the warranty agreement  including its actions while arranging the repair of the car.
I appreciate Miss B is unhappy with the length of time the repairs took and that she wasnt 
given a courtesy car. And I naturally sympathise with the situation shes found herself in. But 
shell need to raise this with the supplying dealership as I cant hold VWFS responsible for 
anything that may or may not have gone wrong during that time.
I recognise Miss B lost faith in the car and wanted to reject it. But, as I dont think the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to her, I dont think there are grounds to 
allow her to reject it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022. Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman