DRN-1287105
The complaint
Miss S complains she had problems with her mobile banking app and Barclays Bank UK 
PLC didn't handle her concerns about that well. She says she was given incorrect 
information and a call handler was rude to her. 
What happened
Miss S's banking app wasn't working for a few days in July 2019. When she went to use it, 
she received an error code. Although a short time later her app was working she complained 
about the inconvenience this caused her. Barclays offered her £25 compensation. Barclays 
explained that if she accepted the amount her complaint would be closed but that if she 
wasn't happy she could escalate her concerns. As Miss S wanted the compensation credited 
to her account she agreed for the complaint to be closed. 
After receiving the resolution, Miss S decided she wanted to escalate matters; she was 
unhappy with the amount offered and the way she was spoken to. Although she called for an 
update on several occasions, it was some time before her complaint was looked at. Barclays 
apologised for the delay and for the service she received and offered an additional £50. 
Although Miss S tried to negotiate a higher settlement with it, and it made her aware of her 
rights to this office, she agreed this amount resolved her complaint. 
Miss S then asked our office to look into matters. Our investigator concluded Barclays had 
already put this matter right and so didn't uphold it. But Miss S disagrees and believes she is 
entitled to more compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S had already agreed a settlement with Barclays before bringing her complaint to this 
office. We don't usually investigate cases where a settlement has already been reached. 
And having considered the nature of what Miss S complains about, it primarily concerns how 
her complaint was handled rather than the problems she had with her mobile banking app. I 
should make Miss S aware that we can't look into complaint handling - it isn't a regulated 
activity. But as Miss S also mentions the issues with her app, I have considered the overall 
circumstances of the complaint. 
Barclays told us that the issue Miss S was experiencing with her app was as a result of her 
inputting an incorrect passcode. So it doesn't appear that Barclays is responsible for her not 
being able to use her mobile banking app at the time. 
I have also listened to the calls she had with Barclays about this, including the call where 
she was offered £25.  At no time was the call handler rude, nor did he force her into 
accepting the compensation offered. He clearly explained Barclays' process that if she 
accepted the resolution at the time, the matter would be closed. But he also explained that if 
Miss S didn't accept it she could escalate the matter further. He then allowed Miss S to make 
her own choice about what she wanted to do. It seems to me that the overriding factor in Miss S choosing to resolve the matter then, was having the money credited to her account, 
which wouldn't have happened had she wanted to escalate her concerns. 
Barclays subsequently increased the compensation by another £50. Again, this offer was 
freely accepted by Miss S. But it doesn't appear it had listened to her calls when it made the 
offer; it has since said it doesn't think the call handler did anything wrong. I agree. I don't find 
the call handler did anything wrong. And it appears any inconvenience Miss S suffered as a 
result of the mobile app not working was due to her inputting her passcode incorrectly - not 
something Barclays is responsible for. But even if I'm wrong about that, Miss S hasn't been 
clear about how this inconvenienced her such that I would find the original offer unfair. 
Overall, I find the offer made by Barclays to be generous and more than I would award. I 
therefore make no further award against it. I understand Barclays has already paid the 
compensation to Miss S, so there is nothing further for it to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman