DRN-4221752
The complaint
Mr J complains that Admiral Financial Services Ltd trading as Admiral Money didnt provide 
the service it should have and unfairly added adverse markers to his credit file. 
What happened
Mr J was provided with a £18,000 loan by Admiral Money in April 2021. The loan term was 
48 months and Mr J was required to make monthly repayments of around £474.
Mr J says he contacted Admiral Money in July 2022 to discuss the loan. He says that 
Admiral Money had applied an adverse marker to his credit file. He says the complaint 
handler wasnt able to help him and so he was passed to a complaints manager. He then 
wasnt contacted until October 2022. Mr J says the incorrectly reported missed payment on 
his credit file meant he was unable to arrange accommodation when he moved to London 
and had to pay for temporary accommodation and all the associated costs of this. He thinks 
that Admiral Money should refund him these costs and pay compensation for the mistakes 
made, poor communication and the stress the issue has caused.
Admiral Money said that Mr J contacted it on 24 August 2022 to say it had reported a missed 
payment on his credit file. The agent believed this to relate to the payment due on 1 August 
and as this was paid only one day late, they agreed to change the reporting and pay Mr J 
£40 compensation. However, it was then identified that the issue related to arrears being 
reported because Mr J wasnt in an arrangement at the time. Admiral Money informed Mr J 
about this mistake but said that although the reporting was correct, it would honour the 
original decision as a gesture of goodwill and requested that Mr Js credit file be updated. 
Mr J then raised further issues. He said that Admiral Money had failed to take his final 
arrangement payment in August 2022 and that he wasnt told he had to set up an 
arrangement by a certain date to prevent arrears being reported. In response to these 
issues, Admiral Money said that it hadnt done anything wrong regarding the August 
payment but accepted it had made other mistakes regarding the setting up of the new 
payment arrangement and the reporting of the arrears. It said that it amended Mr Js credit 
file and because of the issues raised it paid Mr J £600 compensation.
Mr J raised a further complaint in February 2023 about Admiral Money not providing enough 
notice for a payment arrangement to be set up and that he wasnt told the implications of a 
payment arrangement on his credit file and that this would be reported for six years. Admiral 
Money didnt uphold this complaint. It said Mr J was provided with information about the 
need to set up a new arrangement when the previous one ended and that the payment 
arrangement markers had been applied correctly to Mr Js credit file.
Our investigator considered the complaint points raised by Mr J and the actions taken by 
Admiral Money. Based on this she didnt require Admiral Money to do anything further in 
resolution of the issues.
Mr J didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that Admiral Money should be held 
more accountable for the impact its mistakes had on him. He noted the costs he had 
incurred for the temporary accommodation and the additional costs incurred because of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has raised several issues. I have looked through all the issues raised and while I may 
not address every individual point, I can assure Mr J that I have looked through all the 
evidence provided to reach my decision. As our investigator did, I will deal with each 
complaint point separately and explain my reasoning for my decision.
Complaint point 1: Admiral Money failed to collect Mr Js direct debit on 1 August 2022 
Admiral Money said that Mr Js bank account details changed on 27 July 2002 and so it was 
unable to apply for his final direct debit payment due under the arrangement on 1 August 
2022. While I appreciate this was an inconvenience for Mr J, as he had changed his account 
details and noting the time it can take for a new direct debit instruction to be set up, I do not 
find I can say that Admiral Money was at fault here. 
Mr J has said that he didnt change his direct debit but switched his account and when he 
spoke to Admiral Money ahead of the payment date to make a manual payment, he was told 
that Admiral Money would be able to collect the payment. I note a manual payment was 
made on 2 August. Unfortunately, I have no further details about this discussion. But as the 
issue that arose from this was that the account was reported as arrears on Mr Js credit file 
and this issue is dealt with below, I do not find that I need to directly address this point.
Complaint point 2: Mr J wasnt made aware of the urgency of setting up a new agreement in 
August 2022
Having looked through the information provided and having listened to the calls; I find that 
Admiral Money did provide Mr J with the information he needed to understand that a new 
arrangement would need to be set up when the old one ended if arrears were to be avoided. 
On a call in April 2022, Mr J is told that his last payment due on his arrangement was due on 
1 August 2022. He asks about the end of the arrangement and is told its in your interest to 
contact us as soon as the arrangement is up which is 1 August, because if theres not an 
arrangement set up within a certain period, well then report the account as in arrears.
Given the above, I do not uphold this part of Mr Js complaint. 
Complaint point 3: Admiral Money incorrectly reported arrears to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs)
Admiral Money upheld this part of Mr Js complaint. It sent an amendment request to the 
credit reference agencies. It has provided evidence to show that the reporting was amended 
with two credit reference agencies on 24 August and a request was sent to a third agency 
that day and it confirmed the credit file had been updated on 13 September 2022.  
Mr J says that the presence of this marker meant he wasnt able to access other credit or 
secure a rental agreement for a property resulting in him having to live in temporary 
accommodation. I note the costs Mr J has explained and I understand that this would have 
been a stressful time for him. But for me to say that Admiral Money is liable for his costs I 
would need to be satisfied that the arrears it recorded was the only reason why Mr J may 
have struggled to secure the credit and rental agreement. Having looked through Mr Js 
credit file from the time I can see that he had markers applied in November and December 2021 on one of his credit cards and was in an arrangement on another credit card in 2020. 
Therefore, I cannot say that the information recorded by Admiral Money was the only 
adverse data recorded on Mr Js credit file and so I cannot say it was the only reason why he 
may not have been able to move ahead with other credit applications.
I also note that the expenses Mr J has evidenced in regard to his accommodation relate to a 
period from 21 September 2022. Mr Js credit file had been amended by this point. While 
Mr J may not have been aware of this at that time, the correct information would have been 
available to any prospective lenders. 
Admiral Money paid Mr J a total of £640 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the reporting of the arrears in August 2022. While I understand that Mr J doesnt 
think this is enough and I am sorry to hear of the issues he experienced, taking into account 
when Admiral Money amended Mr Js credit file and the other information that was recorded 
on Mr Js credit file I do not require Admiral Money to pay anything further in response to this 
complaint point.  
Complaint point 4: Admiral Money didnt provide enough time for Mr J to set up a new 
arrangement in February 2023
Mr J raised a complaint in February 2023 that he wasnt given enough time to set up a new 
arrangement on his account. He noted he was only given a few days to complete a new 
income and expenditure form and set up the new arrangement. I have listened to the call on 
which Mr J discusses this issue and looked through the contact notes.
Admiral Money contacted Mr J on 9 February 2023 to tell him his arrangement had ended. It 
sent him a copy of his previous income and expenditure form and said a new arrangement 
could be set up if Mr Js circumstances hadnt changed. Mr Js new arrangement needed to 
eb set up by 14 February to prevent arrears being reported on Mr Js credit file. I appreciate 
this didnt give Mr J much time, but Mr J was aware of the terms of his previous arrangement 
and the need to contact Admiral Money when this ended to set up a new one to prevent any 
arrears being recorded as this had been discussed on his previous arrangements. An 
appointment was arranged for 14 February and the new arrangement put in place and so 
while I understand Mr J may have felt rushed this situation didnt result in any material 
disadvantage to him. 
Complaint point 5: Admiral Money didnt make Mr J aware that an arrangement to pay would 
remain visible on his credit file for six years
I understand the point Mr J has made but on the call on 29 April 2022, he is clearly told that 
once the arrangement to pay has ended it will still remain on his credit file. While six years 
wasnt mentioned, it was said it would remain for a period of time and Mr J didnt ask for 
further details at that point. So, I find that Mr J was made aware that the arrangement would 
impact his credit file and that this would remain in place even when the arrangement had 
ended. I have nothing to suggest that had six years been noted that this would have 
changed Mr Js decision in regard to the arrangement as given the other information 
provided, he was unable to maintain his scheduled repayments. Therefore, while I 
understand that the point made, I do not require Admiral Money to do anything further in 
regard to this issue.
In conclusion, I find that the compensation already paid to Mr J is reasonable in this case 
and I do not require Admiral Money to do anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman