DRN-1984293
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should be 
refunding him all the premiums he paid for his mortgage endowment, prior to him taking out 
a mortgage. 
What happened
In 1989, Mr B took out a mortgage endowment with Sun Life which started in early 1990. At 
this time, he didnt take out a mortgage and his paperwork set out that this was to happen in 
the future  but not imminently. In 1992, Mr B took out a second mortgage endowment policy 
and an interest-only mortgage. The combined value of his two policies was intended to act 
as the repayment vehicle for this mortgage.
Mr B, through a representative, complained to Sun Life in 2020 that the policies were mis-
sold. It didnt uphold his complaint for the 1992 policy, but it did partially uphold his complaint 
for the 1990 policy. It said that the life element of this cover should be refunded up to the 
date Mr B had a mortgage, as he didnt require this cover until the borrowing started. As he 
didnt take out a mortgage until some time after the policy started, it refunded the life cover 
part of his premiums (plus interest) from the date he took out the policy until his mortgage 
started in 1992.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service about the refund, as he considered he should 
receive a refund of all the premiums in that time period  not just the amount paid for life 
cover. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the policy seemed suitable 
for Mr B at the time it was sold. She said the policy fitted Mr Bs attitude to risk at that time, 
so that he could start saving for his future home and mortgage. She also said she thought 
the refund provided was in line with our approach to this situation.
Mr Bs representative disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said that a 
full refund of the premiums was due as the fact the policy was pre-sold made it unsuitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs representative is arguing that because the endowment was sold prior to him taking 
out a mortgage, it was unsuitable (until he had a mortgage). But I dont agree thats the case. 
There will of course be times when it a pre-sold endowment could be unsuitable, such as if a 
consumer hadnt actually ever gone on to take out a mortgage  but that isnt the case here. 
The fact that the policy was pre-sold doesnt automatically mean it was unsuitable for Mr B, 
so Ive considered his situation at the time.
The paperwork completed when this endowment was sold sets out that its been taken out to 
be assigned to a mortgage in the future. So Im satisfied Mr B understood what the policy 
was for at the time of sale. The Personal Profile completed for Mr B sets out that he was 
interested in a savings plan for his future house purchase  which was the purpose of this 
policy at the time it was sold. So on that basis I consider it was suitable for his needs at that 
time.
Ive then considered the risk an endowment poses and whether this was suitable for Mr B. 
His attitude to risk is recorded on the paperwork as a 5/10, with ten being high risk. With 
what we know of the risks involved at that time, the low-cost endowment he was 
recommended was suitable for this risk attitude. So considering the information available, it 
seems that the endowment was suitable for Mr B when it was sold. On that basis, I dont 
agree he is due a full refund of the premiums he paid for the endowment between 1990 and 
when he took out his mortgage in 1992.
However, considering Mr Bs personal situation at the time of sale, I accept that he didnt 
require the life cover element of the policy until he had a mortgage. So Ive reviewed the way 
Sun Life has calculated the refund for this part of his premiums. I can see that the correct 
dates and figures for Mr Bs policy have been input  and interest has been awarded on the 
amount to be refunded. So Im satisfied his refund has been calculated in line with the 
approach we take and I dont consider Sun Life needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman