DRN-1633363
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 2002 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD (AXA). This is 
because Financial Insurance Company Limited has transferred responsibility for PPI 
complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, nothing 
else has changed. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Mr W says AXA mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely AXA made it clear Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because to get the cover To get the PPI, Mr W had to sign his name in a 
box for it. The box is signed and Mr W has signed the form again at the bottom of the form 
for the credit, which most likely denotes his agreement with the forms contents. Ive noted 
that theres no language on any documentary evidence that suggests the credit is dependent 
on taking out PPI. So, it seems most likely that Mr W chose to take the cover, and would 
have been given a choice about doing so. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure he got the information he needed so he could decide if it was right 
for him. I have seen a policy document that applied a few years before the sale, and I think 
its most likely that the terms that applied to Mr Ws policy were similar. 
The information AXA gave Mr W about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what Ive seen of Mr Ws circumstances at the time it seems most likely 
that he was eligible for the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. 
And it appears that Mr W would have benefited from the cover. I say this because Mr W told 
us that whilst he had good sick pay initially, it dropped significantly after three months. And 
Mr W told us that whilst he had some private medical insurance that may have sped up his 
recovery, he had no other means he could have relied on if he was off for the reason of long 
term illness, or if he lost his job. Having the PPI would mean the policy would pay out in 
addition to his sick pay, and for longer than his employer would pay him sick pay at his full rate of pay. And it would have been useful if he lost his job. So, I think the PPI could be 
useful for him.
So having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr W off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman