DRN-3614350
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled her claim on her
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Advantage or the insurer, I include employees, contractors and others
insofar as I hold Advantage responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a hatchback car first registered in 2008.
For the year from 23 May 2021, Mrs A had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with
Advantage. She was the policyholder. The policy also covered her husband Mr A as a
named driver.
Unfortunately, on 29 May 2021 (a Saturday), a third party damaged the rear of the
hatchback while it was parked. Mrs A reported this to Advantage and authorised it to deal
with her husband.
Advantage appointed a car hire company. That company repeatedly declined to provide a
vehicle even after Mr A contacted Advantage to complain.
By about 21 June 2021, Advantage treated Mrs As car as a total loss. Advantage settled the
claim on about 2 July 2021.
After the complaint, Advantage didnt send a final response within eight weeks as it
shouldve done. By a final response dated 16 September 2021, Advantage offered Mrs A the
following:
Loss of use of hire vehicle 35 days @ £10.00 per day £350.00
distress and inconvenience £100.00
total £450.00
Mrs A brought her complaint to us in November 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator said that he didnt have jurisdiction to deal with the complaint about the way
the insurer handled the complaint as this wasnt about regulated activities.
Our investigator at first recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He
thought that £100.00 offered for the distress and inconvenience wasnt enough. He thought
that the insurer should have compensated Mr and Mrs A £400.00. But he thought that the
insurer had over-estimated the loss of hire as 35 days (£350.00) when it shouldve been 22
days (£220.00)  an over-estimate of £130.00. He recommended that Advantage should
compensate Mr and Mrs A an additional £170.00.
The investigator changed his view. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint
should be upheld. He thought that at the time of the incident Mrs A had access to a sports
car  albeit that her disabled mother was unable to get into it. So the impact and loss of use
would have been less than he originally thought. He thought that the insurers offer had been
fair and reasonable.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs A   
and to Advantage on 8 July 2022. I summarise my findings:
I held Advantage responsible for the distress and inconvenience (including loss of 
use of a hire vehicle) that Mrs A suffered. That included not being able to take her 
mother out (as the sports car wasnt suitable).
Mrs A wasnt without a vehicle. 
Advantage accepted the complaint and offered compensation. Advantages offer 
totalling £450.00 was somewhat more than I would otherwise have found fair. As it 
was in a final response, I was minded to find it fair to hold Advantage to its offer. 
From what Id seen, Mrs A declined that offer and Advantage didnt make payment.
Subject to any further information from Mrs E or from Advantage, my provisional decision 
was that I upheld this complaint in part. I  intended to direct Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mrs A (insofar as it hadnt already paid her) £450.00 for distress and 
inconvenience and loss of use of a hire car.
Mrs A disagrees with the provisional decision. Her husband says, in summary, that:
Mrs As mum is a very frail lady in her eighties. She lives with them. 
Mrs As mum owned the car. She surrendered her licence due to bad health. Mrs A 
insured the car. 
The premium they paid was for all the benefits provided in the policy. That included a 
hire car. They cannot remember it saying if you have other transport it wont be 
provided.
Most days Mrs A would take her mum out. The car also carried her wheelchair and 
walking aids.
It is not acceptable for mum to be confined to the house during this debacle.
On 18 or 19 July 2022, they unexpectedly received a cheque for £450.00. Whilst they 
accept this as a part settlement, it is not closure for them.
Advantage hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.From the policy documents, I see that cover was for social domestic and pleasure use of the
hatchback. Mrs A said the car was owned by her mother. She said that there were a total of 
3 vehicles and 2 drivers in the household. Mrs A said Mr A had his own car and she was a
named driver. So I find that in addition to the hatchback, Mrs A had a car and her husband
had a car that she was insured to drive.
From the policy documents, I havent seen any promise by Advantage to provide a courtesy
car or hire car in the event of a claim for repairs or a total loss. Mr A hasnt shown that a hire 
car was a benefit of the policy in such circumstances.
Nevertheless, Advantage led Mrs A to believe that it would arrange a hire vehicle. Ive seen
a standard communication from the car hire company to Mrs A saying that Advantage had
appointed it to provide a hire vehicle and to arrange repairs. Advantages final response
assumed responsibility for the shortcomings of the car hire company.
Advantage has told us that the car hire company didnt provide any information about the
complaint. So I find it likely that Mr A is correct that the company declined to provide a
vehicle, giving administrative reasons that shouldnt have been a problem. Also, I accept that
someone at the hire company was rude to Mr A.
I hold Advantage responsible for the distress and inconvenience (including loss of use of a
hire vehicle) that Mrs A suffered. That included not being able to take her mother out (as the
sports car wasnt suitable). As her mother wasnt the policyholder (or a named driver) I dont 
have the legal power to assess compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her.
I accept that Mr and Mrs A had to chase Advantage over a period of weeks before it
sent its final response.
However, most accidents and insurance claims result in some distress and inconvenience.
And Advantage dealt with Mrs As claim in about a month.
Mrs A wasnt without a vehicle. Further, Advantage accepted the complaint and offered
compensation.
Ive weighed up whether Advantages offer was fair in line with our usual approach or
whether I wouldve awarded more compensation. Ive decided that Advantages offer
totalling £450.00 is somewhat more than I would otherwise have found fair.
As it was in a final response, I find it fair to hold Advantage to its offer. From what Ive seen, 
Mrs A declined that offer and Advantage didnt make payment. However, Mr A says that 
Advantage made payment unexpectedly in response to the provisional decision.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint. And in case something goes wrong with the cheque payment, I direct 
Advantage to pay Mrs A (insofar as it hasnt already paid her) £450.00 for distress and 
inconvenience and loss of use of a hire car.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs A (insofar as it hasnt already paid
her) £450.00 for distress and inconvenience and loss of use of a hire car.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman