DRN-2926797
The complaint
Mr S complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPAS) has treated him unfairly in relation 
to a claim on his home emergency insurance.
IPAS is the underwriter of Mr S policy. To keep things simple, any reference to IPAS 
includes its agents or representatives unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr S held a home emergency policy with IPAS;
In September 2020 his boiler stopped working so he contacted IPAS.
IPAS sent an engineer later that day to assess the problem. They determined the 
circuit board of the boiler (PCB) would need to be replaced.
Mr S spoke to IPAS shortly after and was told it was declining the claim as the boiler 
was beyond economical repair (BER)  meaning the repair cost was more than the 
value of the boiler. And it said the estimated repair cost was more than 80% of his 
£500 policy limit. 
Mr S complained, but IPAS stood by its decision in light of the age of the boiler 
saying other parts may also have needed replacing alongside the PCB.
So, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He raised a number of concerns about 
the handling of the claim including the behaviour of the attending engineer and lack 
of information available to IPAS when it made its decision.
Our investigator said IPAS had failed to demonstrate where in the policy it was able 
to restrict the cover to 80% of the policy limit. She also said IPAS had no evidence to 
support that other parts of the boiler may need replacing. In turn IPAS offered £500 
(the policy limit) to Mr S towards the cost of repair or replacement. 
The investigator also considered the behaviour of the engineer and said she could 
understand why Mr S felt intimidated and concerned in the circumstances. And she 
said IPAS had failed to provide heaters as it shouldve done in line with the policy 
terms. Taking into account the impact the lack of heating had on Mr S and his health, 
and the overall claims handling, she recommended IPAS pay £250 in compensation 
in addition to its previous offer.
IPAS agreed, but Mr S didnt. So the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for the reasons already given by our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
IPAS initially declined Mr S claim but has since agreed to pay £500 to him towards the cost 
of repairing or replacing his boiler. Im satisfied it declined the claim unfairly for the reasons 
previously given. And as the offer it has made since is the policy limit of his cover, Im 
satisfied this is a fair resolution to the claim itself.
Ive next thought about the impact of its decision to unfairly decline the claim. This left Mr S 
without proper heating for some time, and alongside this IPAS failed to provide portable 
heaters as it shouldve in line with the policy terms. Ive thought carefully about this and 
considered Mr S own ability to mitigate the loss. 
Ive also considered Mr S complaint about the engineer that visited his home. And I can see 
why the behaviour described wouldve been concerning to Mr S. But I also cant ignore that 
this didnt impact the outcome of the claim or cause any delays.  
Overall, Im satisfied £250 in compensation is a fair and reasonable sum in the 
circumstances for the mistakes made by IPAS.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr S:
£500 it has already offered (if it hasnt done so already); and 
£250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman