DRN-3390556
The complaint
Mr D complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited unfairly declined his 
bicycle insurance claim.
What happened
Around September 2021, Mr Ds bicycle was stolen from the communal bicycle storage room 
of the apartment building where he lives. Mr D says his bicycle was secured on a bicycle 
rack in the room using a bicycle lock. Mr D reported the theft to the police and made a claim 
with the insurer.
Mr D complained after Watford Insurance declined his claim. The insurer pointed to its policy 
terms that refer to how the bicycle needs to be secured. Watford Insurance relied on the fact 
that the bicycle storage room didnt have its own locked door and because of this, it decided 
that Mr Ds claim didnt meet the terms of the policy. Watford Insurance acknowledged that 
Mr Ds apartment building had a secure access facility requiring a key or access code to gain 
entry - but it concluded that anyone could access the bicycle storage room once they gained 
access to the building itself.
Mr D asked this service to review his complaint. He says he wants the claim paid and he 
wants the insurer to cover the costs hes incurred because he had to hire alternative 
transport. Mr D also requests compensation because of the inconvenience he experienced 
in arranging an alternative way to travel. 
Our investigator concluded that Watford Insurance had unfairly declined the claim. The 
investigator decided that the terms Watford Insurance had referred to werent clear and 
pointed out that the overall access to Mr Ds building required a key or access code.  So, 
although the bicycle storage room itself didnt have its own lock, the investigator felt it was 
likely that any locking facility that couldve been in place wouldve been the same as the 
main entrance to the building. The investigator said that Watford Insurance applied its terms 
unfairly and asked it to reconsider the claim and pay Mr D £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience it caused him. The investigator also asked Watford Insurance to cover the 
costs Mr D incurred because he had to hire alternative transport.
Watford Insurance didnt agree and said that its terms require the bicycle storage room to 
have its own separate key or access code. Because the insurer didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds policy covers his bicycle for theft from the insured location, which, in this instance is 
the communal bicycle storage of his apartment building. The policy terms define communal 
bicycle storage as a fully secure and enclosed residential compound specifically designed 
for parking bicycles; solely for the use of residents at your insured location and only 
accessible through a key or access-code operated entrance or exit. 
Watford Insurance declined the claim because it says the terms require the communal 
storage room to have its own secure access. The insurer challenges our investigators 
opinion that the secure access to the apartment building itself was enough to satisfy the 
requirements of the terms. I share our investigators interpretation of the terms and Ill 
explain why.
Despite what the insurer now says, the term itself doesnt specifically point out that the 
communal storage door needs to have its own separate locking system. The terms require 
that the communal bicycle storage should only be accessible through a key or access code 
but, in my opinion, it doesnt set out that it needs to have its own separate locking system. 
Mr Ds apartment building is only accessible via a key or code operated entrance  in my 
view this satisfies the relevant part of the term. Also, the communal storage is its own 
separate room designed to specifically store bicycles securely and is solely for the use of the 
residents of Mr Ds apartment building. Mr D appears to have also used an appropriate 
bicycle lock to secure his bicycle. The terms of the policy also require that Mr D takes 
reasonable care to prevent damage, theft or loss. Given the above, Im satisfied that Mr D 
stored his bicycle in a way that meets the terms.
The terms of the policy define theft as the unlawful taking of the insured item by way of 
unauthorised access to the insured location  force or violent means is also cited. I can see 
the parties didnt have access to the CCTV footage, so its difficult to reach a conclusion on 
how the communal storage room was accessed. But given the apartment building has 
secure access and only those with a key or access code can gain entry  I think its 
reasonable to conclude that the access to the communal storage room was unauthorised. 
Moreover, Mr D provided pictures to show his bicycle lock was forcibly removed. So Im 
satisfied that the definition of theft has been met.
Watford Insurance points out that the lack of a locking facility for the communal storage room 
meant that someone was able to access the room after having gained access to the building. 
However, as I said its unclear how the person(s) that carried out the theft exactly gained 
access to the building. It seems that the individual(s) managed to somehow get through the 
key/access code operated main entrance. But I disagree that the lack of a separate locking 
system for the communal storage is what led to the theft.  
I say this because the bicycle storage area was for use of all the residents of Mr Ds 
apartment building. So, even if it did have its own locking system, its likely that it wouldve 
required the same key or access code as the main entrance to the building. Given the 
person(s) who carried out the theft was able to bypass the secure access to the building, its 
likely they wouldve been able to also bypass any secure access to the communal storage 
room. So I dont think that Watford Insurances conclusion here is reasonable.
Nevertheless, as Ive explained above, in my view the terms required there to be secure 
access to the communal storage room. And in the absence of the terms specifically saying 
otherwise, I think the key/access code operated main entrance to the building satisfied this 
part of the terms. 
So, in my opinion, Watford Insurance unfairly applied its terms when declining Mr Ds claim. 
Therefore, Im directing the insurer to review the claim again. 
Putting things right
Watford Insurance unfairly declined Mr Ds bicycle insurance claim. To put things right the insurer should review the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
Mr D tells this service that he experienced a financial loss because of what Watford 
Insurance did wrong. Mr D says hes had to hire alternative transport in the form of a car and 
bicycle whilst this matter has been ongoing. And hes sent us invoices to show the costs hes 
incurred. The policy covers Mr D for the hiring of an alternative bicycle whilst awaiting the 
replacement of his bicycle. Mr D provided invoices to show hes paid £60.30 so far towards 
hiring a bicycle. So Watford Insurance should cover these costs as well as any further hire 
costs Mr D has incurred since. Watford Insurance should liaise directly with Mr D to establish 
the total hire costs hes incurred.
The policy doesnt provide cover for hiring a car as an alternative. Given the policy wouldnt 
have covered these costs anyway, Watford Insurance doesnt need to reimburse Mr D for 
the cost of hiring a car.
Mr D says he experienced an inconvenience because he had to make alternative travel 
arrangements. Given Ive directed the insurer to reimburse Mr D for the costs he incurred, I 
think £100 compensation fairly reflects the level of inconvenience he experienced. So 
Watford Insurance should pay him this amount. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and instruct Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to 
settle this complaint in line with what Ive set out in the putting things right part of my 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman