DRN-4073666
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim he made on his 
income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr M is a beneficiary of his employers group income protection policy. Mr M was asked to 
shield during the Covid-19 pandemic due to his health conditions. He was then signed off 
sick from April 2021 by his GP and made a claim on the policy. 
Aviva declined the claim because they said the medical evidence didnt demonstrate how 
Mr Ms medical conditions impacted on his ability to function on a daily basis or why they 
stopped him from working in some capacity. Mr M provided more information but that didnt 
change Avivas mind. So, Mr M made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Aviva to decline the claim based on the available medical 
evidence. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He explained the physical demands of his role, the impact of a longer commute 
and the nature of the role, which included working variable shifts. He also highlighted that 
the medical conditions he suffered from meant there were unpredictable flare ups. Mr M also 
highlighted medical evidence in support of his claim and that hed been awarded benefits 
due to his conditions. 
This information didnt change the investigators thoughts about the outcome of the 
complaint. So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Its for Mr M to demonstrate he has a valid claim under the policy. So, he needs to show its 
most likely he meets the policy definition of incapacity. Its not for Aviva to show that he 
doesnt meet the relevant definition. 
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint because: 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to conclude Mr M didnt meet the policy 
definition of incapacity. Theres no dispute that Mr M has a number of medical 
conditions. But the available medical evidence doesnt give a meaningful insight into 
Mr Ms ability to work or his functional capacity during the relevant time. For example, 
the GP notes and hospital letters reference Mr Ms symptoms and pain levels but 
theres no detailed commentary on how this impacted on his ability to work and 
function. And the medical evidence doesnt indicate a significant change or 
deterioration in Mr Ms symptoms during the relevant time.  
I dont think it is unreasonable to place less weight on the occupational health report 
completed during August 2021, which concluded Mr M wasnt fit to work. This 
appointment was completed over the phone and was largely based on Mr Ms 
reporting of his conditions and symptoms.  
Ive taken into account that Mr M has successfully applied for benefits and the 
chronic nature of his medical conditions. But this doesnt mean that the claim should 
be accepted. The benefits assessment took place around a year after Mr M was 
signed off. And, in any event, the assessment for benefits is a different criteria to that 
set out within the policy terms and conditions. So, this information hasnt changed my 
thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. 
Mr M has mentioned that he asked for adjustments in the workplace, but his 
employer didnt implement them. Thats something Mr M will need to address with his 
former employer. And, as the claim wasnt accepted by Aviva, I wouldnt have 
expected them to get involved in a discussion about potential adjustments. In the 
circumstances of this case I dont think its something Aviva was responsible for. 
Ive thought about the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the medical evidence that 
is available and what Mr M has said about the impact of this on his appointments, 
diagnoses and treatment. But, I still think its reasonable to rely on the medical 
evidence thats available. That wasnt something that Aviva is responsible for. And, 
for the reasons Ive explained, the available medical evidence doesnt demonstrate 
that Mr M was incapacitated to the extent that he couldnt work.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman