DRN-4317684
The complaint
Mr P complains that the investment performance of his pension savings shows that some 
advice he received from MWA Financial Advice Ltd trading as Eversley Wealth Management 
(Eversley) was inappropriate.
What happened
Mr P held pension savings in two different schemes. He held a stakeholder plan that 
comprised pension benefits hed previously transferred after advice from Eversley in 2007. 
And he held other pension benefits in a small self-administered scheme (SSAS) that 
received ongoing pension contributions from the business that he owned. In 2012 Eversley 
advised Mr P that he should transfer the savings he held in both pension plans to a new 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
Mr P accepted Eversleys recommendation and a new SIPP was opened with a firm that 
I will call M. But Mr P agreed with Eversley that he would be responsible for selecting and 
managing the investments into which the transferred funds would be placed. Mr P had 
previously agreed that he would pay for Eversleys services by a one-off fee based on the 
time taken to produce the advice. Mr P didnt agree to pay Eversley for any ongoing advice 
on his pension investments  he said he would again pay a one-off fee should any advice be 
required, but he didnt make use of that service.
Mr P placed his pension savings into two cash-based investments. He placed the monies 
into a fixed one-year deposit account with a bank I will call U, and a separate cash savings 
account. Since 2012, on an annual basis, Eversley has forwarded details of the renewal 
options on the one-year deposit account that it received from M. And it also sent Mr P details 
of the best cash investments rates that were available on the market. Mr P asked Eversley to 
renew his one-year fixed deposit account with U each year.
It appears that the member of the Eversley team that had been assisting Mr P left the firm 
before Mr Ps deposit account reached the end of its one-year term in July 2021. But 
Eversley allocated a new point of contact for Mr P. That member of staff was in regular 
contact with Mr P from July 2021 attempting to arrange a meeting to discuss how he might 
use the pension savings that had previously been held in the deposit account. But it doesnt 
seem that meeting was ever successfully arranged and Eversley sent Mr P a brief summary 
of his options in December 2021.
Mr P says that, in early 2022, he realised he hadnt been asked to provide any renewal 
instructions for his fixed rate account. So he got in touch with Eversley. He says that he 
wasnt given the information he required so he contacted U directly. U confirmed that it 
hadnt received any reinvestment instructions so had returned Mr Ps funds to his SIPP 
account with M. M confirmed that it had received Mr Ps funds in October 2021.
In September 2022 Mr P complained to Eversley about what had happened. He said that he 
had recently received statements from M for the past ten years of his SIPP that he hadnt 
previously been sent. He said that, from those statements, it was clear that his pension 
investments had performed poorly and that was a result of the inappropriate advice hed 
received in 2012. He said that he would have been better off if his pension savings had been 
left in the previous schemes.
Eversley didnt agree with Mr Ps complaint. It said that he had no need for the additional 
flexibility that a SSAS offered to him. And it said that the SIPP arrangement it had advised 
him to move his pension savings into was offered at a far lower cost than both the SSAS and 
stakeholder pension that he previously held. So it thought its advice to make the transfer had 
been suitable.
Eversley noted that Mr P had said that he wished to make his own investment decisions and 
it had not provided him with any ongoing advice since 2012. So it said that it couldnt accept 
any responsibility for the lack of growth of the funds held within Mr Ps SIPP. It did however 
offer to work with Mr P to review his pension savings and provide advice on future 
investments subject to the payment of its ongoing fees.
Mr P didnt accept Eversleys findings so brought his complaint to us. The complaint has 
been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the advice to transfer the 
pension savings into the SIPP had been suitable. And he didnt think Eversley could be 
considered responsible for the investment choices that had been made with the transferred 
monies since no advice had been provided to Mr P about that. So he didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr P didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr P and by Eversley. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think there are two aspects to this complaint that I should reasonably consider. First I will 
look at the advice Mr P was given in 2012 to transfer his pension savings into the new SIPP. 
And then I will look at what has happened since the transfer, and whether Eversley should 
take any responsibility for the investment performance of Mr Ps monies.
When considering a transfer such as was recommended to Mr P in 2012 I will generally first 
look at any guarantees or defined benefits that might have been given up. It doesnt seem to 
me that Mr Ps pension savings attracted any such benefits. But some of the pension 
savings were held in a SSAS. So I need to consider whether that arrangement was 
important for Mr Ps circumstances.A SSAS is a special type of workplace pension. It is a defined contribution (DC) scheme 
(also known as a money purchase scheme). The benefits provided depend on the amounts 
paid in, the investment growth achieved, and the terms for converting the pension fund into 
an income. Usually, a SSAS has very few members. They are typically limited to company 
directors and (possibly) key employees. The members are also trustees of the SSAS and 
make decisions about investments, which (like a SIPP) are wide ranging and can include 
directly held shares, property etc.
Since 2006, many of the benefits of a SSAS have been available through a SIPP. However it 
does offer some other benefits such as being able to lend money to a sponsoring employer, 
or to directly invest in the shares of that company. But from the information I have seen 
those werent features that were being used, or were likely to be used, by Mr P or his SSAS. 
And the SSAS flexibility comes at a cost, both in terms of the direct fees payable to the 
provider (£1,000 pa in this case), and the administrative responsibilities that come with 
acting as the scheme trustee and reporting scheme information both to the Pensions 
Regulator and HMRC.
Mr P told Eversley that he wanted to be able to manage the investment of his pension 
savings himself. So I think it was reasonable for Eversley to conclude that the limited 
investment approaches available to a consumer through a stakeholder pension plan might 
be unsuitable for Mr P  both in terms of the plan he already held, and when looking at any 
potential future destinations for his pension savings. It provided Mr P with details of the costs 
he would need to pay for running the SIPP that were generally cheaper than he was paying 
for his previous arrangements. So I think it was reasonable for Eversley to advise Mr P that 
he should hold his combined pension savings in a SIPP.
The report that Eversley provided to Mr P in 2012 clearly set out that he had said he would 
manage his own pension investments. And that was further noted when Eversley told Mr P it 
would be difficult to provide any comparison of the ongoing investment costs for his pension 
savings since the investment approach hadnt been determined. Eversley also gave Mr P 
details, in the advice report, of cash deposit accounts that were available at that time that 
could be used within Mr Ps intended SIPP.
I have looked carefully at the engagement that has taken place between Eversley and Mr P 
since 2012. I think I should first say that I havent seen anything to make me think that there 
was any agreement between Mr P and Eversley for it to provide him with ongoing investment 
advice on his pension savings. But, Eversley has assisted Mr P each year with the renewal 
of his fixed term deposit. It has received information from M, and passed that on to Mr P. 
And then it has forwarded Mr Ps response back to M. But I dont think those actions should 
have raised any expectation for Mr P that Eversley was advising him on the suitability or 
performance of his pension investments. Eversley says that it was simply passing on 
information from the SIPP provider.
In 2021 Mr Ps fixed term deposit once again matured. But the information he received from 
Eversley at that time was different from what had happened in the past. Previously Eversley 
had simply passed on the renewal instruction for Mr P to consider. However in 2021 the new 
advisor at Eversley suggested Mr P might find it useful to have a formal review of his 
pension investments to ensure everything was in line with his objectives.
But that meeting didnt take place. Initially Eversley was gathering information from the 
pension provider. And then Mr P was awaiting information from his accountant about his 
income and expenditure to assist Eversleys investigations. And later there was some 
confusion about whether a meeting should take place via videocall or face to face.I can however see that in October 2021 Eversley reminded Mr P that his fixed term 
investment had matured and the funds were sitting in his pension fund in cash. And in 
December 2021 it sent him a short document explaining the investment options he might 
want to consider, and asked Mr P to get back in touch if he wanted to discuss them further. 
Eversley didnt hear back from Mr P until June 2022, and shortly afterwards he made his 
complaint to the firm.
In summary I am persuaded that the advice Eversley gave to Mr P in 2012 was suitable. And 
I am satisfied that, at Mr Ps request, there was no ongoing agreement for Eversley to 
provide him with ongoing advice or support about the investments he chose to make with his 
pension savings. Over the following years, Eversley did provide some limited administrative 
support to Mr P but I dont think that can be considered to have given any expectation that 
more meaningful management of the pension investments was being undertaken. And 
I think that, in 2021, Eversley did make Mr P sufficiently aware of the maturity of his fixed 
rate account. 
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing from Mr P. But it was his choice to initially 
decide and then manage his pension investments. So that means that Eversley cannot be 
considered responsible for any problems with the suitability or performance of those 
investments. It follows that I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
MWA Financial Advice Ltd trading as Eversley Wealth Management.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman