DRN-2821049
The complaint
 T, a limited company complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has treated it unfairly by 
conducting an excessive number of reviews into its business and threatening to withdraw 
banking facilities. 
In bringing this complaint T is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr H.
 
What happened
 In early December 2019 HSBC wrote to T to explain amongst other things, that as part of 
their commitment to fight fraud, and other forms of financial crime they needed to make sure 
they held the right information about Ts business. They told T they would be in touch again 
to request up to date information about its business, and that from time to time they would 
also ask T to confirm, update or give them new information. This review process by HSBC is 
known as a Safeguard review.
In late December 2019, HSBC contacted T again. They asked T to complete an on-line form 
to provide the information HSBC now needed about its business. T was asked to do so by 
March 2020. In their letter under the sub-heading What happens if you dont provide the 
information?  HSBC added:
We may give you notice to close your accounts if we dont receive the required information. 
Were entitled to do this under clause 29 of our Business Banking Terms and Conditions 
T provided the information and in February 2020 HSBC confirmed they had completed their 
review and updated their records. They said T could now continue using its account as 
normal. 
In March 2020 HSBC wrote again to T saying further to their regulatory obligations theyd 
enhanced their due diligence procedure. HSBC said they were now seeking to obtain and 
review information on a regular basis and they asked T to phone them within the next seven 
days to provide updated information about its business. 
HSBC added that if T wasnt prepared to provide the information within the timescale it had 
been given, then HSBC wouldnt be able to fulfil their legal and regulatory obligations. HSBC 
also said that would mean theyd have to review their banking relationship with T which 
could result in T being asked to make alternative banking arrangements.   
In April 2020 HSBC sent another letter to T to say the on-line form was ready to complete 
and T had to do so by July 2020. 
The letter contained this warning: 
Although its rare we must inform you a possible outcome of the review is we may decide to 
no longer provide banking services for your business  even if youve provided us with all the 
information we asked for. This would only happen where were no longer willing to provide 
banking services so that we can comply with our legal and regulatory obligations. In these 
circumstances, wed send you a formal notice advising you of the outcome in line with our 
Business Banking Terms and Conditions 
T complained to HSBC about their reviews and poor customer service generally. T said, 
during the reviews it received a number of unarranged phone calls from HSBC which 
disrupted meetings with its clients and HSBC failed to return its calls. HSBC acknowledged 
they did provide poor customer service and apologised to T. In addition, they credited Ts 
account with £150 in compensation.
In May 2020 HSBC told T they had successfully completed their most recent review and it 
could continue using its account and banking services as normal. In their letter HSBC added: 
Please note that were required to review our customers accounts periodically and its likely 
well contact you in the future to complete the Safeguard review again. 
In early July 2020 HSBC triggered a further Safeguard review of Ts business. In their letter 
to T, and as they had previously done in their letter in April, HSBC explained the reasons 
behind the review as well as the possible outcome once it was completed.  
From around late July to early October 2020, HSBC wrote a further five times to T asking it 
to complete the online form in order to provide up to date information about its business. All 
the letters had the same warning about the possible outcome of the review. 
In September 2020 T complained again to HSBC. It said the reviews were excessive and 
administrative burdensome for its business. It feared its operations and profitability were 
being affected and it didnt think HSBCs objective was to protect it from fraud and other 
financial crime as they had suggested. 
 
HSBC didnt think they had done anything wrong. They said they acted in accordance with 
their legal and regulatory obligation in respect of the reviews. And they argued that under the 
terms and conditions of Ts account it had an obligation to cooperate with the reviews and 
provide the information requested.  
T didnt agree with HSBCs conclusions and referred its complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded the three reviews HSBC initiated 
were done as part of their legal and regulatory obligations. And he didnt think they were 
initiated in error. Whilst he acknowledged that administratively the reviews would have been 
burdensome for T, he didnt think they were conducted unfairly. However, the investigator 
agreed that at times HSBCs communication with T was poor but, he thought the £150 
HSBC paid for their poor service was reasonable.   
T didnt agree with the investigator and wanted its complaint reviewed by an ombudsman. Mr 
H has made a number of detailed points both in his phone conversation with the investigator 
on 13 May 2021 and in writing. I summarise what I regard as the key points: 
The investigator underrepresented the number of reviews that were launched by 
HSBC. There were perhaps five or six and they were largely back to back. 
In relation to Ts business, the investigator failed to take into account that the reviews 
took place in the middle of the pandemic. Against that background HSBCs threats to 
terminate their relationship with T caused considerable distress because around that 
time other leading banks werent opening accounts for new customers. No consideration was given to the impact of the reviews on the business as well as 
the psychological impact on Mr H personally. The reviews were operationally 
disruptive and impacted Ts profitability. Mr H became emotionally distressed by the 
constant threats to close Ts account and was unable work and sleep properly.
Mr H also had to spend time trying open accounts elsewhere for T in case HSBC 
carried out their threats to terminate their relationship with T.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find Im in broad agreement with the investigator and Ill explain why.  
All banks are required to meet certain regulatory requirements by ensuring the information 
they hold on their customers is accurate and up to date. Banks will have their own 
procedures for reviewing and updating their records, and HSBC uses, amongst other
things, Safeguard reviews. 
HSBC are entitled to ask their customers for further information, to help safeguard all parties 
from financial crime as they did on the occasions, they asked T for such information.  Im 
satisfied that in line with clause 11 of their Business Banking Terms and Conditions, HSBC 
made a reasonable request to T for such information. T does have a duty to provide the 
information requested although I appreciate that unfortunately some inconvenience is 
inevitable during that process. However, Ive not seen anything to make me think HSBC 
acted in error when they decided to conduct the reviews into Ts business. And neither have 
I seen any persuasive evidence from T that it suffered any financial loss because of them. 
the number of safeguarding reviews carried out on Ts business
It is Ts case there were several of these reviews - perhaps five or six which it thinks were 
too many. But, like the investigator Ive found no evidence there were in fact the number of 
reviews T believes were generated. The evidence Ive seen indicate there were three such 
reviews:
December 2019 which was completed in February 2020
March 2020 which was completed in May 2020; and 
July 2020  which hasnt been completed. 
Its a matter for HSBC when such reviews are necessary in order to comply with their 
regulatory obligations. I could only uphold Ts complaint if I was satisfied that HSBC did 
something wrong. But I dont believe they did. 
threats to close Ts account 
I can see that T engaged with the review process.  And in respect of the December 2019 
and March 2020 reviews the information it provided to HSBC ultimately enabled them to 
successfully complete their review. But Mr H is upset about HSBCs threats to close Ts 
account when triggering the reviews. Ive looked at all the letters HSBC sent to T throughout 
the review process. Largely these were from December 2019 to October 2020.
It is true that at times the letters did warn of the consequences T might face if the information 
requested werent provided. At other times the letters did warn of the possible outcomes 
when the reviews were completed. I can fully appreciate, especially in the period after March 2020 when, like many other 
businesses T was having to cope with the uncertainties of the pandemic, there would have 
been concern about the consequences of a decision by HSBC to terminate their banking 
relationship. And not least for the reasons Mr H has mentioned, that it might have proved 
difficult in the pandemic to readily replace those facilities elsewhere.
But bearing in mind the reviews were being conducted to enable HSBC to comply with their 
legal and regulatory obligations, Im satisfied HSBC were entitled to point to the possible 
consequences if T failed to provide the information it had been asked for. Im also satisfied 
that this entitlement also extended to making T aware of the possible outcome at the end of 
the review even if it did provide information about its business as requested. It follows Im not 
persuaded that by including as they did the warnings in their communication with T that 
HSBC did anything wrong.
effects of the warnings on Mr H
Mr H has explained the effect the warnings in HSBCs letters had on him personally. I am 
sorry to hear about that. Given his relationship to the business its understandable Mr H 
would have found it distressing the possibility Ts relationship with HSBC could end following 
the reviews. And it is also understandable that he was concerned about the difficulties T 
might face if that were to happen. Especially in the middle of a pandemic when banks were 
no longer operating normally.  
But, Mr H will no doubt appreciate T, as a limited company is separate from him personally. 
So, when considering this complaint, I have to consider the effect of HSBCs actions in 
relation to T rather than him. And as a limited company T cannot suffer distress from HSBCs 
actions.  
HSBC have already acknowledged there were occasions they provided poor service to T. 
And theyve already paid £150 compensation to settle that part of its complaint. I think this 
compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
  For the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that 
the compensation of £150 already paid by HSBC UK Bank plc to T is fair and reasonable. I 
simply leave it to T to decide if it wants to accept that in full and final settlement of its 
complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman