DRN-2566987
The complaint
Ms R has complained about the service and advice shes received from Hargreaves 
Lansdown Advisory Services Limited (HLAS), in the following terms: she didnt receive an 
annual review between March 2018 and June 2019; HLAS has applied an incorrect lifetime 
allowance (LTA), leading to tax being incorrectly deducted; she had more than one Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) account; she was incorrectly advised to invest in the 
Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF); and that HLAS sent her two expression of wish 
forms.  
What happened
Our investigator made the following observations and findings, within which the background 
to the complaints is also encompassed:
The issue of the annual review 
The investigator noted that HLAS gave Ms R an initial recommendation relating to her 
pension affairs in 2016, and it was agreed that HLAS would provide her with annual reviews 
 a service for which she would pay an annual charge.
Reviews were undertaken in March 2017 and April 2018, but the next wasnt carried out until 
July 2018. So the investigator considered this and whether HLAS had fulfilled its obligations 
to Ms R in that regard.
He noted that HLAS had sent an invitation for Ms R to have a review in April 2019, and 
although the actual letter wasnt available, he thought the records it had provided were 
indicative of an attempt having been made to review Ms Rs pension affairs.
In June 2019, Ms R contacted HLAS to transfer funds from her self-managed SIPP to a 
Portfolio Managed Service (PMS) SIPP which she also held. She also enquired about her 
review, so HLAS sent a further invitation and the review was arranged for July 2019.
Although the investigator accepted that Ms R may not have received the initial invitation, he 
was nevertheless satisfied that an attempt had been made to arrange it  and moreover, he 
was satisfied that Ms R had received a review in 2019, albeit slightly later than in previous 
years. As such, he said, Ms R received her yearly review.
The LTA issue
The investigator noted that the LTA was first addressed when HLAS gave Ms R initial advice 
in 2016. Ms Rs pension funds were recorded as being below the LTA of £1.25m at the time, 
but it was known that this would decrease to £1m the following year. There was a discussion 
about Ms R exceeding that limit, and as part of the review in 2017, the adviser 
recommended that Ms R apply for Individual Protection 2016.
Ms R had said that shed emailed her LTA Protection Certificate 2016 to her adviser on 6 
April 2018. The investigator said that he could see that shed told the adviser that shed 
applied for it, but it was unclear as to whether the actual certificate had been attached to that 
email. He further noted that, in the advisers report of 17 April 2018, it was recorded that Ms 
R was in the process of applying for this protection, which was inconsistent with what Ms R 
had previously said about the status of her Individual Protection earlier in the same month.
A letter from HLAS in April 2019 reminded Ms R that her accumulated pension funds would 
soon be tested against the LTA as she was nearing age 75. In response, Ms R completed 
and returned a declaration which confirmed that she understood the LTA to be £1.055m and 
that, by the time shed reached 75, there was no possibility that the total value of all her 
pensions would exceed that limit.
The investigator thought that the adviser should have followed up the absence of an 
attached certificate in the earlier email of April 2018, but given the subsequent 
recommendation in the same month that Ms R apply for the LTA protection, and that Ms R 
had herself confirmed that she wouldnt exceed the LTA the following year, he concluded 
that Ms R had opportunities to mitigate her situation if indeed there was the possibility that 
the LTA would be breached. As such, and as no actual evidence of the protection had been 
provided, the investigator didnt think that HLAS had acted unreasonably in deducting tax 
from her pension when Ms R turned 75.
However, the investigator said that, if it was the case that the Individual Protection 2016 
could be applied retrospectively, then HLAS should do this  and he sent it Ms Rs 
certificate.
More than one SIPP account for Ms R
The investigator said that, when Ms R first transferred her pension funds to HLAS, she was 
advised to open a PMS SIPP and a PMS Drawdown SIPP. The majority of Ms Rs funds 
were retained in the PMS SIPP as she had no need of the drawdown facility at the time  but 
the drawdown facility provided by the latter was there if she needed it.
When Ms Rs requirements changed in 2017, notably a desire to help her daughter buy a 
house, the adviser recommended that she transfer some money from the PMS to the 
Drawdown SIPP, which enabled Ms R to draw some cash tax free.
And when a further pension contribution of £10,000 was made after the March 2018 review, 
this was placed into the PMS SIPP as Ms R wanted to reduce her income tax bill, set aside 
money for long term investment growth and exclude that investment from her estate. The 
investigator was therefore satisfied that the two SIPP accounts fulfilled a quite separate 
purpose and he didnt think that this had been inappropriate.
He noted that a further SIPP account was established online, but this was done by Ms R 
herself, and she invested £8,000 into this in March 2018  which was then transferred to the 
PMS SIPP in May 2018  and a further £2,800 was invested into it in June 2019. So he 
wasnt minded to hold HLAS responsible for the opening of the further SIPP account.
Suitability of the Woodford Equity Income Fund 
The investigator said that Ms Rs pension funds hadnt been invested directly into the WEIF 
 rather, they were invested in a number of multimanager funds, some of which had 
themselves invested small amounts in the WEIF. He noted that Ms R had said that around 
4% of her pension funds were invested in the WEIF, but he also said that she wouldnt have 
been restricted from either drawing on her pension funds or transferring them.
The investigator assessed the advice given to Ms R in 2016, noting that the adviser had 
taken account of her circumstances, objectives and attitude to investment risk. A consistent theme, the investigator noted, was that Ms R didnt envisage needing the invested pension 
funds for her retirement, and instead she anticipated them contributing towards any long 
term care needs.
The investigator said that Ms R had other pension income of around £38,000 and investment 
income of approximately £14,000, along with other assets which could be relied upon in 
retirement. So, he said, there was no immediate need for Ms R to access her SIPP funds.
Given her other available assets, the investigator thought that Ms R also had some capacity 
for loss, which could be as much as 40% in line with what had occurred in equity markets 
during the 2008 credit crisis. And so the investigator didnt think the investment strategy, 
which included a small investment via the multimanager funds, was unsuitable for Ms R, who 
was investing for the medium to long term. And he didnt think that HLAS would in any case 
have been able to predict what happened to the WEIF.
Two expression of wish forms
The investigator noted that Ms R had returned two of these forms, as this is what had been 
sent to her by HLAS. But he said that, as there were two separate SIPP accounts, this didnt 
seem unreasonable.
Other matters
He also said that, although Ms R had queried the whereabouts of some of her pension 
contributions since the complaint had started, HLAS had confirmed that these had been 
allocated correctly. The investigator said that he would forward the information hed received 
about this to Ms R, but as this issue hadnt formed a part of the original complaint, if Ms R 
remained dissatisfied with this, she would be able to raise this as a separate concern.
The investigator also noted that HLAS had itself had discovered that it had made an error 
with the tax relief which was received in respect of the contribution to the PMS SIPP in 2018 
 amounting to £2,000. This had remained uninvested and so hadnt participated in the 
market growth of the PMS SIPP. 
HLAS had offered to move this into the PMS SIPP and assess whether there had been any 
investment loss. Th investigator agreed that a loss assessment should be undertaken, and 
set out his view of how this should be done. He said that the actual value of the SIPP should 
be compared with its notional value, had the transfer of funds been made when it should. If 
there was a financial loss, this should be paid to the SIPP if possible, or if it had annual 
allowance or protection implications, it should be paid directly to Ms R with a notional 
deduction for the income tax which she would otherwise have paid on the amount.
HLAS agreed with the investigators assessment, and said that it had also forwarded the 
protection certificate to the relevant team to see if it could be retrospectively applied.
Ms R had further observations to make, which Ive summarised as follows:
No evidence had been provided that the letter of April 2019 inviting her for an annual 
review had been sent. 
She felt that she had paid for a review in the 2018-19 tax year, which shed needed 
but hadnt received - and the amount in respect of this should therefore be repaid to 
her.
Matters relating to her physical health meant that she needed face to face meetings  
although the detail of her actual condition had also been mis-recorded. 
She had presented the protection certificate to the adviser in July 2018, but the financial report which followed still said that the protection was still to be confirmed by 
Ms R in writing. And despite the declaration which she later sent, HLAS still taxed her 
pension. This should be reclaimed from HMRC and paid to her.
She only opened the online SIPP account as HLAS hadnt given her any other option 
of making pension contributions in the 2017/18 tax year. She received no advice 
about how to get the money into the correct account. And the reasons she didnt 
combine the PMS and drawdown SIPPs was because she was aware that the former 
was invested in the WEIF.
HLAS remained responsible for how her pension funds were invested, and the WEIF 
allocation had restricted her ability to tidy her pension funds into a single fund and 
transfer them elsewhere.
She agreed that a loss calculation should be undertaken to determine whether a loss 
had been suffered on the funds which had remained uninvested.
The investigator considered these further points and said that he remained satisfied that 
HLAS had tried to offer Ms R a review in 2019. And he didnt think that the agreement had 
been that these were completed before the end of the financial year. And so he considered 
that HLAS had fulfilled its obligation by undertaking the review, albeit a few months later.
Although he agreed that HLAS could have done more to follow up Ms R s email about the 
LTA protection certificate, he nevertheless noted again that HLAS had followed this with a 
request for confirmation of her proximity to the LTA, and that Ms R had indicated that her 
pension funds wouldnt exceed £1.055m.
The investigator said he couldnt be certain that Ms R had in fact provided HLAS with the 
protection certificate, although he invited Ms R to provide further evidence that it had been. 
He had nevertheless requested that HLAS determine whether it could be applied 
retrospectively and it had confirmed that it was looking into this.
Ms R had further observations to make in response, as follows:
When she made HLAS aware of her protection certificate, and then that she hadnt 
exceeded the LTA, she was ignored by HLAS on both occasions.
Shed handed the adviser her protection certificate, but the report which was 
completed several months later was filled with errors, including that the LTA 
protections was still to be confirmed. Ms R remained of the view that she should be 
repaid the tax which had been incorrectly taken from her pension.
There was no record of the review invitation letter having been sent in April 2019.
The review which did happen was too late for the end of the 2018/9 tax year. 
Individual charges had been agreed for the reports dated 7 March 2016, 9 March 
2017 and 17 April 2018. But Ms R hadnt agreed a charge for the report which was 
issued nearly three months after the meeting on 1 July 2019, which was full of errors.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my views are broadly aligned with those of the investigator, and for similar 
reasons. As such, theres little which I think I can meaningfully add, but Ill address the 
issues involved, and specifically Ms Rs concerns about the findings to date. The late annual review in 2019
Ive thought carefully about what Ms R has said about the annual review in 2019, and that it 
was designed to be undertaken before the end of the tax year. On the basis that it wasnt, 
and that the subsequent report was issued almost three months later (with errors), Ms R has 
said that shes unwilling to pay for it.
But as with the investigator, I havent seen anything which suggests that the reviews needed 
to take place before the end of each tax year. And Ms R has herself said that she was happy 
to pay for a review report dated 17 April 2018, which was issued after the end of the 2017/18 
tax year. 
And so I dont think I need to make a finding on whether the letter inviting Ms R for a review 
in April 2019 was actually sent. Although the review may have happened slightly later than 
might otherwise have been the case, it nevertheless occurred in the mid part of 2019.
The LTA protection issue
As with the investigator, I think HLAS could have done more to follow up Ms Rs email of 6 
May 2018, although I note that the email itself doesnt reference an attachment. I also take 
on board Ms Rs comment that she showed the adviser the protection certificate, and that 
she in any case confirmed in a later declaration that her pension funds wouldnt exceed the 
LTA.
However, the check later conducted by HLAS revealed that Ms Rs pension assets did 
exceed the LTA. And whilst I also dont doubt Ms Rs recollection that she showed the 
certificate to the adviser, it does seem odd to me that the adviser would simply ignore this. 
So I think its possible that there may have been some miscommunication over the issue of 
whether the protection was in place. And Ms Rs later confirmation that her assets wouldnt 
exceed the LTA, which might render any protection in any case redundant, might lend 
credence to this notion.
The fact is that, as also noted by the investigator, I cant be certain of what was discussed in 
the meeting. As it turned out, HLAS checked Ms Rs pension assets against the LTA at age 
75 and determined that they exceeded this  and so the tax needed to be paid. But Ive 
requested an update as to whether this can be reclaimed from HMRC and whether HLAS 
can assist Ms R in doing so. HLAS has confirmed that it was its understanding that Ms R 
had invalidated her protection and it wouldnt therefore be appropriate to apply a certificate 
which was no longer valid.
However, it has also said that if Ms R has confirmation from HMRC that the certificate and 
associated protection in still in place, it could retrospectively apply this to her account. It said 
it wouldnt be able to contact HMRC on Ms Rs behalf, however.
I think this is a reasonable stance, and so I would recommend that Ms R seek confirmation 
from HMRC that the relevant protection is in place, and provide this to HLAS so that it can, if 
possible, assist her further.
WEIF
Before I consider the investment in the WEIF itself, I think it would be useful to set out the 
agreed asset allocation for Ms R in the initial advice in 2016, based on her circumstances, 
objectives and attitude to risk. From what I can see, there was no definitive 
low/medium/high risk tolerance attributed to Ms R, but she was described as someone who 
was a knowledgeable and experienced investor, having previously held fund based investments and direct shareholdings.
As identified by the investigator, Ms R was also recorded as having the capacity for loss as 
her secure pension income met all of her current spending and would continue to do so in 
retirement. Ms R also retained more than enough cash on deposit to meet any emergency 
needs.
The report from 2016 also said that Ms R was comfortable accepting volatility as she was 
aware that this was a natural part of investing. She accepted that value was to be achieved 
through long term investing and enjoyed the risk based side of investing.
A target asset allocation was set as follows:
Fixed Interest 20-30%
Managed Equities 65-75%
So I think I can be reasonably confident that Ms R was an individual who was prepared to 
accept some risk for the sake of financial reward in the medium to long term, and as 
observed by the investigator, she had a specific aim in mind for these pension assets  
namely long term care.
The Portfolio Management Service to which Ms R had subscribed was described as follows 
in the report:
The investment team conduct extensive research to identify the best funds and fund 
managers. The same team are responsible for the HL Multi-Manager funds, so the Portfolio 
Management Service primarily invests in these multi-manager funds as an efficient way of 
holding a selection of their best ideas.
So even though the responsibility for investment in particular assets, including the WEIF, fell 
within the remit of the multi-manager funds, it was still ultimately the responsibility of the 
HLAS PMS to ensure that the assets were suitable for Ms R.
But whilst Ms R is right to say that she was reliant on HLAS to make sound investment 
decisions on her behalf, and without needing to making any findings on the operation of the 
fund itself or its appropriateness for a particular type of investor, it formed a very small part 
of her portfolio.
Ive nevertheless considered the objectives of the WEIF as stated in its 2016 fund factsheet, 
which were as follows:
To provide a reasonable level of income together with capital growth. This will be achieved 
by investing primarily in UK listed companies.
I dont think this would have been inconsistent with the objectives for Ms Rs pension funds. 
HLAS has also confirmed that Ms Rs funds in the PMS arent suspended and that there 
would be no restrictions on her transferring or consolidating her pension funds.
More than one SIPP account
The investigator has explained his reasoning for finding that the two SIPPs held with HLAS 
served different purposes  as far I can tell, one was effectively a flexi-drawdown account, 
whereas the bulk of Ms Rs investments remained in the non-drawdown account. And having 
sought clarity from HLAS on this point, its said that charges were levied on both as a 
percentage of funds held, which means that Ms R wouldnt have been paying an additional fixed fee for holding the two SIPP accounts. This doesnt therefore seem unreasonable to 
me. 
But Ive also taken into account what Ms R has said about the third SIPP account. Ms R 
says that she only opened the online SIPP account as HLAS hadnt given her any other 
option of making pension contributions in the 2017/18 tax year, and that she received no 
advice about how to get the money into the correct account. But I also havent seen any 
evidence of Ms R seeking advice on how best to make an additional pension contribution. 
And so if HLAS were unaware of her intention, it would be difficult for it to advise on the best 
way of achieving her objective.
Two expression of wish forms
I dont think this has caused any financial loss or significant inconvenience to Ms R. As the 
investigator noted, this seemed quite reasonable given that there were two HLAS SIPP 
accounts.
Putting things right
HLAS has nevertheless identified that an error was made with regard to the tax relief which 
remained uninvested  amounting to £2,000. And I think the proposal put forward by the 
investigator and accepted by HLAS is appropriate.
Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited should therefore determine the notional 
value of Ms Rs SIPP, had the funds been invested in the originally proposed manner (so the 
strategy employed according to Ms Rs risk profile, but excluding the WEIF, to which Ms R 
has said she was keen to avoid further exposure). Ideally, it should ensure that a payment is 
made to increase the SIPP by any amount of loss, taking account of any fees and available 
tax relief.
Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited has said that its possible for it to backdate 
Ms Rs portfolio to ensure that its in line with her original instruction. But if this isnt for 
whatever reason possible, or has LTA tax implications for Ms R  which it seems likely it 
might - it should pay the amount directly to Ms R, with a notional deduction for the income 
tax  presumed to be basic rate - she would otherwise have paid on it outside of the pension 
fund. Ms R would have been able to take 25% of this as tax free cash, so a notional 20% 
income tax rate should be deducted from 75% of the compensation.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory 
Services Limited should ensure that any redress due is paid to either Ms Rs SIPP by way of 
reconstructing its value, or to her directly, as outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman