DRN-2310359
The complaint
Mr A complains that Newcastle Building Society wont pay him the value of the preferential 
shares he says he holds.
What happened
Mr A recently discovered a receipt in his paperwork from a building society that has now 
merged with Newcastle Building Society. The receipt is dated 21 November 1959, is headed 
Preference Shares and shows that Mr A paid £100 to the Society. It says a passbook will 
be forwarded in early December 1959. 
Mr A says he never received the passbook, or a certificate, and that he never withdrew the 
money. He wants Newcastle Building Society to pay him what his £100 worth of shares 
would be worth today.
Newcastle Building Society checked its records and cannot trace anything in Mr As name, 
other than his mortgage account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
receipt was enough evidence to show that Mr A still held shares or an account with 
Newcastle Building Society.
Mr A didnt agree. He said, in summary, that the receipt was proof that he bought the shares. 
He thinks the Society never made a record of his deposit because he never heard anything 
further from it. And he said he wouldnt have cashed the shares in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory as some of it is here, 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr A has a receipt to show that he gave the building society £100 in 1959. This isnt enough 
evidence to show that Newcastle Building Society owes him any money now.
Mr A says he didnt hear anything further from the society after he was issued with the 
receipt. But he also points out that £100 was a lot of money in 1959. I agree, so I would have 
thought that - if he didnt receive the passbook as expected - he would have queried it at the 
time.
The society that issued the receipt merged with Newcastle Building Society in 2006. 
Newcastle Building Society has checked its records and can find no trace of a deposit or 
shares in Mr As name. Its records do allow it to check what was transferred to it in 2006 
and, again, there is no trace that Mr A held anything then.
Im satisfied that Newcastle Building Society has completed a thorough check of its records.
Unfortunately, it doesnt hold records dating back to 1959, so it cant say for certain what 
happened here.
But it seems to me most likely that the £100 was withdrawn before 2006. I accept Mr A is 
certain hes never taken the money out. But, despite what he says now, I find this is the most 
likely explanation. As this could have been anywhere between 14 and 61 years ago, its not 
surprising Mr A has forgotten.
I understand Mr A would like to know, with certainty, what happened. But due to the passage 
of time, I can only say what I think is most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
and information now available.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman