DRN-3031178
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr J says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold that PPI policy. 
I know that when PPI was sold to Mr J, Santander was trading as Alliance & Leicester. 
However, Santander is the business responsible for answering the complaint. To keep things 
simple, Ill refer to Santander for the remainder of this decision. 
What happened
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Santanders offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr J paid was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Js representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Santander should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are set out 
below. 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Mr J during a face to face meeting in a Santander 
branch. I cant know what was said during that meeting. To help me decide whats most 
likely to have happened, Ive looked at what Mr J remembers about it. And Ive also carefully 
considered the documentary and electronic information thats available from the time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Santander would have made it clear to Mr J that 
the PPI was optional and he didnt have to take it out if he didnt want it. It was argued that 
PPI was presented to Mr J as part of a package alongside his mortgage. But I cant 
reasonably say that was the case. I think Mr J would have had to apply for PPI separately to 
his mortgage. And it looks as though he paid for it with a separate direct debit. If it was 
presented as part of the mortgage, I think Mr J would have queried why he had to pay a 
separate premium for the PPI. The evidence doesnt suggest he did. 
Although it wasnt specifically argued by his representatives, I can see that in 2009, Mr J told 
Santander he was cancelling the cover because he didnt realise he had it. I dont doubt that 
what Mr J told Santander was what he honestly recalled at that time. But as I said, the PPI 
was debited from his account separately to the mortgage. If he didnt know about the cover, I 
think Mr J would have queried what that new transaction was. Again, the evidence doesnt 
suggest he did so at the point of sale. With all of this in mind, I think its most likely Mr J 
knew about the PPI and that he could refuse it if he didnt want it. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr J so it had to check that the PPI was suitable for his 
circumstances. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of the policy. And Ive also looked at what we know about Mr Js personal 
circumstances at the point of sale. 
There has been some confusion about what Mr J was covered for. I can see in the final 
response letter, Santander said the policy sold to him was for unemployment only. But the 
electronic evidence Ive seen suggests he was covered for accident, sickness, 
unemployment and carers cover. So I have considered the complaint on the basis that if Mr 
J made a claim, his mortgage repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months for 
each claim if he became a carer, was off sick or if he was made redundant.  
Mr J said he had around three months full sick pay from his employer, and he also had 
some savings. I think its most likely that the PPI would have lasted for longer than the other 
means Mr J had at the point of sale. I can also see that when he cancelled the PPI, Mr J said 
he had similar cover elsewhere. Ive thought about this, and I can see that Santander asked 
him whether he had any other cover at the point of sale. Mr J said he didnt. So it seems 
most likely to me that the similar cover Mr J had was purchased after this PPI policy. I 
understand Mr J had a death in service benefit through his employer. But he would have 
only been able to claim on that policy in the unfortunate event of his death  not if he was 
made redundant or if he was off sick. 
Ive next checked to see whether Mr J would have been affected by any of the policys 
exclusions or limitations. I appreciate Mr J told us about some ligament damage hed 
suffered as a child. And I understand he had a couple of what appear to have been minor 
head injuries as a teenager. The latest of these injuries occurred in 1978  so around 17 
years before the policy was sold. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr J had ongoing 
difficulties because of these injuries, and I note he told Santander he was in good health at 
the point of sale. So I dont think the exclusions around medical conditions made the policy 
unsuitable. Those representing Mr J also made some submissions in the belief that there were 
additional exclusions in the policy for back and mental health conditions. But having 
considered the policy document at length, Im satisfied there were no such exclusions. And I 
havent seen anything else that was unusual about Mr Js circumstances that would have 
stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. All in all, I cant say 
this policy was fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. 
Even so, Santander still had to give Mr J enough information about the cover so he could 
decide for himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. I accept it is possible the 
information Santander gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive 
found that he chose to take it out, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. The cover 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr J as I concluded above, nor too dissimilar to what he 
reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was most likely given. It also 
looks like it was affordable, so it seems like it would have been useful if something went 
wrong with his job. Because of this I dont think Mr J would have declined the cover had 
Santander given him more or better information about the cover. 
Overall, I consider that Mr J would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
The representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
arguments dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?Santander didnt tell Mr J about the high levels of commission and profit share he paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Santander and Mr J was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Santander didnt tell [him/her/them] about the high levels of commission 
and profit share in this case 
I dont think Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr J because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on the complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mr J should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Santander failed to tell Mr J about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; 
the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was submitted that these 
things meant the policy was poor value, and I should find that Mr J wouldnt have taken out 
the policy had they known about the level of commission. It was further submitted that Mr J 
should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipTaking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, my role as 
an ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by Santander not disclosing the high level of 
commission before the policy was sold.
I am also mindful of the following: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, 
plus interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose 
the level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order 
which, in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under 
section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness.  
For the reasons set out above, I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude 
that the policy wouldnt have been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of 
commission. I think it was fair for Santander to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Mr J paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr J with 
the policy Ive concluded above would still have been taken out if Santander had done 
everything it should have done, but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Santanders offer to pay of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this 
part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr J an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman