DRN-4108394
The complaint
N complains about how Zurich Insurance PLC settled a claim made on its property insurance 
policy.
Reference to Zurich includes its agents.
What happened
N is a policyholder on a property insurance policy for a number of properties it manages.
After an escape of water at one of the properties, a claim was made. Zurich accepted the 
claim and theres no dispute about the work carried out to rectify the damage caused.
The dispute surrounds how that claim was settled. Specifically, N complains about who 
Zurich settled the claim with. Zurich payed part of the claim to the leaseholders (L). Who in 
turn paid the contractors who carried out the work (C). But N says it paid C too  meaning C 
was paid twice, and N thinks Zurich should have paid it, not L.
Zurich didnt agree, it said it was reasonable it paid L because it was something it was 
entitled to do and had been communicating with them throughout the life of the claim.
N disagreed and brought their complaint to us.
One of our investigators didnt think it should be upheld. She thought it was reasonable 
Zurich paid L and didnt think it needed to pay anything more to N.
But N disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this wont be the answer N wants. Ill 
explain my reasoning.
Ultimately the issue here is that C has been paid for some aspects of the work it 
completed, twice. It received payment from both N and L. But to resolve this, I dont 
think its reasonable for Zurich to pay twice. The issue lies more with C than with 
Zurich.
Throughout the claim Zurich was mainly dealing with L. It paid L after authorising the 
costs with them. I think thats reasonable.
I appreciate N had already paid C for some of the work when Zurich paid L. And I 
appreciate N told Zurich this. But I cant see Zurich ever authorised these payments 
to C.
At the point Zurich paid L, L could have paid N instead of paying C. Or N could have 
requested payment from L and let them know it had already paid C. That this didnt 
happen I dont find Zurich responsible for.
Ultimately, Zurich has paid a claim to a party its entitled to pay, and so I find that it 
carried out its duties under the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman