DRN-2295102
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs N complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) cancelled a direct debit to a 
lottery company without their authority. 
What happened
Mr N and Mrs N, says they have a monthly direct debit to a lottery company and in April 
2020 saw they had won a monthly prize amount. When they didnt receive the expected 
winnings, Mrs N queried it with the lottery company who informed her the direct debit for the 
monthly draw had been cancelled.
Mrs N says she contacted HSBC who informed her the direct debit had been cancelled on 
line. Mrs N says she disputed this with HSBC, and they were unable to provide her with a 
cancelled direct debit list and believes they couldnt have subsequently reinstated the direct 
debit, as they said. Mr N and Mrs N wants HSBC to pay the monthly prize sum they would 
have won along with compensation for the trouble and upset.
HSBC says the direct debit was cancelled online by Mrs N and the direct debit was 
reinstated after Mrs N contacted them about this in April 2020. HSBC say they have done 
nothing wrong here. 
Mr N and Mrs N werent happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr N and Mrs Ns 
complaint. The investigator says he was provided with information to show that Mrs N had 
logged on to her online bank account and cancelled the direct debit to the lottery company. 
The investigator also felt it was possible to reinstate the direct debit, although Mr N and Mrs 
N felt it wasnt. 
Mr N and Mrs N werent happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When  looking at this complaint I have considered if HSBC cancelled the direct debit to the 
lottery company without any authority and then acted illegally when reinstating the direct 
debit, as Mr N and Mrs N suggest. 
I can understand that it would have been very disappointing for Mr N and Mrs N to believe 
they had won a lottery prize, only to learn that their direct debit payment for that monthly 
draw had been cancelled. 
Mr N and Mrs N say they didnt cancel the direct debit to the lottery company and had only 
cancelled direct debits to two other businesses. Mr N and Mrs N also says that HSBC have 
given them incorrect information about reinstating the direct debit as they believe it is illegal 
for them to do so. Furthermore, Mr N and Mrs N says that HSBC were unable to provide 
them with a backdated list of the cancelled direct debits to evidence it was cancelled.
I have carefully considered the points made by Mr N and Mrs N and while HSBC are unable 
to provide a retrospective list of cancelled direct debits, they have more importantly provided 
log on details and the account activity on the date the direct debit was cancelled. What 
happened here is, although Mrs N may not recall it, she logged on to her bank account with 
HSBC and a few minutes later cancelled three direct debits, one of which was to the lottery 
company. 
The information I have seen shows Mrs N logged in on 16 March 2020, with the usual 
device, same location and same IP address as previously used by her and within a few 
minutes of doing so cancelled three direct debits including one for the lottery company. Mrs 
N hasnt disputed she cancelled the other direct debits here, but given the evidence I have 
seen, its difficult to argue she didnt also cancel the direct debit to the lottery company, even 
if she doesnt recall doing so. I am satisfied, from the information provided to this service, 
Mrs N did cancel the direct debit payment herself, even if she hadnt meant to.
Mr N and Mrs N are also concerned that it wouldnt be possible for HSBC to reinstate the 
direct debit after it was cancelled, but I am satisfied that provided HSBC had obtained the 
authority to do this, it would be allowable. Mrs N contacted HSBC in late April, and it was at 
this time the direct debit was reinstated, so on balance I am satisfied HSBC, in all probability, 
acted in accordance with Mrs Ns instructions. 
While Mr N and Mrs N will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking 
anymore of HSBC here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman