DRN-1747811
 
The complaint
Mr C says Provident Personal Credit Limited irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Provident provided to Mr C between November 
2015 and March 2016. Mr Cs borrowing history is laid out below:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 15/11/2015 14/03/2016 32 £300.00
2 14/03/2016 sold on 63 £300.00
3 14/03/2016 sold on 63 £500.00
4 14/03/2016 sold on 63 £500.00
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint and thought Providents checks for the loans 
went far enough. Mr C disagreed and asked for his complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for review. He didnt think Providents checks went far enough  and had it 
done proportionate checks it would have found he was struggling financially. 
As Mr C asked for am ombudsmans review, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought Providents checks didnt go 
far enough and it should have been aware that he was struggling financially. So, it shouldnt 
have lent to him.
Provident has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr C about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of around £1,950 (which included his wages and 
benefit allowance). Provident also checked Mr Cs normal monthly living costs. Mr C 
declared these as £1,644 per month. 
Mr Cs history of borrowing with this lender was relatively early on  he had only borrowed 
from Provident four times over a four-month period. And even though he had to make weekly 
repayments, the highest combined weekly repayment would have appeared affordable 
based on the information he had declared to Provident. 
For Mr Cs first two loans there wasnt anything in the information that Mr C provided which 
would have given Provident cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Provident to 
have relied on what Mr C told it. I think these factors had an impact on what level of checks 
would have been appropriate for Provident to carry out. Given these, I think the checks 
Provident did before lending the loans went far enough and the checks it carried out showed 
the loans were affordable. So, I wouldnt have expected Provident at this stage to undertake 
any more in-depth checks. 
The information Mr C declared to Provident at the time of loans 1 and 2 may not have been 
an accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think Provident was entitled to rely 
on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Provident knew about     
Mr C, I wouldnt have expected Provident to verify the information Mr C gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that Provident have done something wrong in lending Mr C 
these loans.
Mr C took his third and fourth loans out the same day he took out loan 2 and the same day 
he repaid loan 1. I think this can be a sign of someone who is juggling their finances due to 
trying to make ends meet. So, I think this ought to have given Provident some cause for 
concern about what Mr C was telling it about his financial position. I think Provident needed 
to take steps to verify the information Mr C was providing. And it could have done this in 
several ways  such as asking to see his bank statements or for copies of his payslips 
and/or bills.
But in saying this, Mr C hasnt provided us with any additional information  such as a copy 
of his credit file and/or copies of his bank statements from around the time of lending. So, 
without any further information, I cant say an error has been made regarding the checks 
Provident should have done, as I dont know whether it would have thought the loans were 
unaffordable for Mr C. This means that I cant say that Provident was wrong to have 
provided loans 3 and 4.I appreciate that Mr C has put a lot of time and effort into his complaint and my findings are 
likely to disappoint him. But I hope my explanation will help him understand why Ive reached 
this conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint and make no award against Provident Personal Credit 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman