DRN-2782944
The complaint
Ms S complains that Charter Court Financial Services Limited, trading as Charter Savings 
Bank, didnt open a 2018/2019 cash ISA account for her and didnt tell her until after the tax- 
year. 
What happened
On 31 March 2019, Ms S submitted an on-line application for a cash ISA account with 
Charter Savings Bank. She paid £10,000 as a deposit. When she applied on-line she was 
prompted to send proof of identity and her address. The following day she forwarded a copy 
of her bank statement and passport, and a further payment of £6,000. Charter Savings Bank 
wrote to Ms S on 3 April and told her they were reviewing her documents and would let her 
know when her account was open or whether they required further information.
On 5 April, Charter Savings Bank wrote to Ms S to tell her the documents provided werent 
acceptable and they declined her application. They said they would return her funds 
because they couldnt hold cash ISA funds over to the next tax-year.
Ms S complained to Charter Savings Bank. She said that because theyd communicated by 
post she didnt find out her application had been declined until after the tax-year end. She 
told Charter Savings Bank that shed missed the opportunity to invest into a 2018/2019 ISA. 
And she told them she thought their process of informing her by letter, rather than email or 
telephone, was unfair because of the impending tax-year end.
Charter Savings Bank provided a final response and didnt uphold the complaint. They said 
there was a discrepancy in the address verification Ms S had provided and they followed 
their process of communicating with customers by letter. Charter Savings Bank accepted the 
discrepancy appeared minor, but explained theyd followed their own account opening policy 
and procedures.
Ms S didnt agree with Charter Savings Bank and brought her complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into things for Ms S and thought that Charter Savings Bank hadnt 
acted unfairly.
Ms S says that she believes Charter Savings Bank didnt act in a way that was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and asked that an ombudsman decides her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not able to tell Charter Savings Bank to alter their processes, but I can consider whether 
Charter Savings Bank treated Ms S fairly when dealing with the account opening. I 
understand that Ms S will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as our 
investigator Ive decided that Charter Savings Bank acted reasonably. I will now explain why. 
The crux of this complaint is whether Charter Savings Bank acted reasonably in declining 
the application because of the discrepancy in the addresses provided by Ms S address. And 
whether they acted unfairly by communicating with Ms S by post when they had other 
contact details for her.
Ive seen the documents Charter Savings Bank received from Ms S on 3 April. These 
included a bank statement with a slightly different address on it to the one Ms S used when 
applying on-line. Charter Savings Bank savings terms and conditions say theyre required by 
law to check the identity of Ms S and verify her address. They also explain they may require 
documentary evidence if they cant confirm the address electronically. Section 5.8 of the 
general terms and conditions say Charter Savings Bank may reject any application at their 
discretion and if they do, theyll return any funds to the account from which they were sent 
without interest. And that funds for an account shouldnt be sent until a customer has been 
told the account is open.
Charter Savings Bank saw the address provided on-line was different to the address they 
obtained electronically. The address on the documents Ms S provided later didnt match the 
address shed provided when she applied for the account. So, they wrote to Ms S on 5 April 
to tell her they had rejected her application and would be returning her funds. I dont 
consider Charter Savings Bank acted unfairly here. They have discretion to reject an 
application, and the failure of an address verification seems to me to be a valid reason to 
decline an application.
In their letter of 5 April, Charter Savings Bank explained theyd declined the account and 
returned the funds to the bank account of Ms S. Im satisfied they were sent by electronic 
transfer the next working day, which was a Monday. I considered whether Charter Savings 
Bank couldve sent the funds back to Ms S quicker. The only way they couldve done this 
was by the Faster Payment process, but Charter Savings Bank say they dont operate the 
Faster Payment process. So, taking all of this into account, I cant say Charter Savings Bank 
processed the refund unfairly.
Ms S says that if Charter Savings Bank had emailed or called her, she wouldve been able to 
explain the discrepancy. I have some empathy here with Ms S as Charter Savings Bank had 
alternative contact details for her. The savings terms and conditions say Charter Savings 
Bank may communicate notices on an account by post, email, telephone or message on 
their on-line banking service. However, Im satisfied that as Charter Savings Bank hadnt 
opened an account for her at this stage, it wasnt unreasonable for them to communicate by 
letter in these circumstances.
Its unfortunate Ms S sent the funds to Charter Savings Bank before the account had been 
opened, but Im satisfied Charter Savings Bank sent the funds back to her bank account 
promptly. So, I dont consider Charter Savings Bank treated Ms S unfairly here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before .
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman