DRN-1978240
The complaint
Ms M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) didnt do enough 
to assist in recovering money she believes she should get back in relation to a hotel booking.
What happened
In early 2019, Ms M contacted a hotel to book rooms for herself, her husband (Mr E) and two 
other family members.  She made specific requests about the rooms, including that one 
should be accessible to someone with mobility issues.  Following an email exchange with 
the hotel, she booked three rooms.  Ms M offered her credit card details to secure the 
booking, but no payment was taken.
When Ms M, Mr E and their family arrived at the hotel, they were asked to make full payment 
(£220) for the rooms.  Ms M paid using her Amex card.  
When they went to their rooms, Ms M and Mr E found their room was cold, so they asked a 
staff member to sort this out.  And they were unhappy that one of the other rooms was not 
easily accessible (as they had requested).  Ms M and Mr E found the hotel staffs response 
to their concerns to be rude and unhelpful.  So they asked for a refund of their payment.  The 
hotel offered a refund for the cold room, but not a full refund for all the rooms.  Ms M and 
Mr E werent happy.  So they left and got rooms at a different hotel.
Ms M contacted Amex about the payment she had made for the rooms.  Amex raised a 
chargeback, but closed it two days later and applied the £220 charge to Ms Ms account.   
Ms M complained that her dispute hadnt been dealt with.  Amex investigated this and 
decided they had made a mistake when they closed it.  They reopened it straight away and 
made a £25 goodwill payment to Ms M for their error.  And they suspended the payment to 
the hotel while they investigated.
A few weeks later, Amex told Ms M that they had asked the hotel for information about the 
payment, but hadnt had a reply; so they were crediting her account with the disputed 
amount.  But they warned her that the hotel could still reply.  And that, if they supplied the 
evidence Amex had asked for, she might be rebilled.
Soon after this, the hotel provided Amex with information about the payment.  After 
considering this, Amex wrote to Ms M.  They told her that the hotel had sent them 
documents which supported the payment transaction.  So she would be charged the 
disputed £220.
Ms M complained to Amex that they had preferred the hotels version of events to hers and 
that Amex had not treated her fairly.  And she provided more information about why she 
thought Amex should decide in her favour.  Amex considered her letter but wrote to her to 
say they hadnt changed their opinion and the payment would be charged to her account.
Ms M and Mr E raised their concerns with us.  Our investigator considered the complaint.  
She explained that we can only look at whether Amex had dealt with Ms Ms chargeback 
request fairly, not whether it should have been successful.  And she decided that they had.
I didnt agree with our investigator, so I made a provisional decision.  Amex had limited 
themselves to dealing with Ms Ms dispute only as a chargeback.  I thought they should also 
have thought about whether she had a claim under s75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Because Amex had limited what theyd done, I didnt think theyd done everything they could 
to assist Ms M  and they should compensate her for this.  I said I thought Amex should pay 
£150 compensation.
Ms M hasnt responded to my provisional decision.  Amex have replied  but theyve not 
accepted what I said.  They said that they wouldnt raise the possibility of a claim under s75 
(unless the consumer specifically raises it) because it amounts to a claim against their 
service  which they dont advertise.  And raising the possibility here, where the merchant 
had defended a chargeback would mean they were favouring the cardholder, rather than 
acting impartially in the dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding the complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ms Ms underlying dispute was with the hotel.  Thats still the case.  But she looked to Amex 
to help her resolve that dispute.  And I dont think they did everything they could to help her 
with that.
The chargeback was raised on the basis that the goods/services paid for (the hotel rooms) 
werent received.  But that wasnt the basis of Ms Ms complaint.  She and Mr E werent 
happy with the quality of the rooms  or the service they got from the hotel staff.  So it could 
also be said that the services provided were not as described, or were defective.  Or it might 
be argued that there was a breach of contract under s75, because Ms M didnt get the 
accessible room she specifically requested.
I made clear in my provisional decision that a challenge on that basis might also be 
defended.  And its not my role here to decide the dispute between the parties.  But, from 
what I read, I did think that Ms M knew something about s75, and believed it gave her 
certain protection  although she didnt refer to it in that way.
Amex didnt mention the possibility of a claim under s75.  Their notes say this was because 
Ms M hadnt asked them to. But I dont think its fair not to discuss that option with a 
consumer just because they dont use the right legal terms. And that was why I said in my 
provisional decision Amex should pay Ms M compensation.  
Ive thought about Amexs response to my provisional decision.  But Im not persuaded that I 
should change the decision Ive made.  
Amex has two roles in this scenario.  Its the card scheme operator.  In that role, its 
supposed to act impartially in disputes between the cardholder and card provider. It was in 
this role that Amex considered the chargeback. But Amex is also the card provider.  In that 
role its the potential respondent in any claim a consumer brings under s75. 
S75 gives consumers legal rights to take action against their credit card provider.  Those 
rights exist whether or not Amex tell their cardholder about them.  And telling the cardholder 
doesnt mean the cardholder will pursue them, or that theyll be successful if they do. But, when Ms M contacted Amex, Amex needed to consider any liability/obligation they 
might have in response to that claim  including the obligations imposed on them by s75.  I 
dont think Amex did that.  And its for that reason I dont think they addressed Ms Ms 
concerns fairly.   
Putting things right
Ive thought about whether I should direct Amex to reconsider the claim under s75.  But, 
even if I did this, theres no guarantee this would change anything for Ms M.  And Ms M 
hasnt indicated she wants any resolution other than the one set out in my provisional 
decision.  I think the impact on her can be dealt with by directing Amex to compensate Ms M 
for not doing all they could have done to assist her.  And the right amount of compensation 
for this is £150.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint and directing American Express 
Services Europe Limited to pay her £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman