DRN-2485578
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
November 2003. Ms M says St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews), mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. And they pointed out that since St Andrews 
didnt provide the mortgage finance  and so was not the lender  it wasnt responsible for 
the goodwill offer of compensation Ms M received from the PPI commission. 
Ms Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below
 
Ive noticed that Ms M hasnt said she didnt know about agreeing to take out this policy, or 
that she was told she had to have it. So I think its fair to conclude she agreed to take out this 
policy because it was a form of protection she wanted to have. Whilst St Andrews has only 
limited information from the sale itself, this is supported by the fact that Ms M decided to take 
out the policy some months after shed arranged her mortgage funding. 
St Andrews agrees that the PPI was recommended to Ms M which is consistent with what 
shes said about the policy being sold to her when she was in a meeting. That means that it 
had to check that the PPI was right for her. And the evidence about Ms Ms circumstances at 
the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For 
example Ms M was eligible for the cover and hasnt told us about having any work benefits. 
But in the event of a successful claim the policy would pay out for up to 24 months, giving 
her a particularly good length of cover and so protection for her mortgage. Taking into 
account how long Ms M had been in her job, the PPI cover would also have lasted for longer 
than her redundancy entitlement.
There was nothing else about Ms Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms M as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms M would have declined the cover 
had St Andrews done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Ms Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations and 
other exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she 
would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Ms M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant St Andrews should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Ms Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means St Andrews doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Commission Complaint
I understand that the lender that arranged the mortgage finance has already paid back to 
Ms M some of the cost of the PPI to compensate her as if it had treated her unfairly. Since 
St Andrews wasnt responsible for any compensation arising from commission on the PPI, it 
doesnt need to do anything more in that regard. My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint  so I make no award. That means St Andrews 
Insurance Plc doesnt need to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman