DRN-4105499
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system. Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In June 2014, Mr H purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr H financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Mitsubishi that 
was repayable over ten years.
In 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Hs behalf under section 75 and section 140 of the 
Act to Mitsubishi. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr H to enter into the contract and made Mitsubishis relationship with Mr H 
unfair on him.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
 Mr H could have a solar panel system at absolutely no cost to him.
 The benefit of the solar panels would cover the loan repayments on an annual basis.
 Mr H wasnt told he would have to make monthly loan repayments.
Mitsubishi didnt receive the claim until after the matter was referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Mitsubishi explained that it didnt think we had jurisdiction to consider 
the matter. I explained in a previous decision why I think we do have jurisdiction, and 
Mitsubishi has not objected to this any further.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Mitsubishi disagreed, so Ive been 
asked to make a decision on the merits of the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold the complaint. 
Neither Mr H nor Mitsubishi responded by the given deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75, and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mr H and the supplier are deemed to have 
been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Mitsubishi.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. This 
means that Mr H could claim against Mitsubishi, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have claimed against the 
supplier.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140 allows the courts to consider if the relationship between a creditor and debtor is 
unfair on the debtor for certain reasons. When doing so the courts can look at the actions of 
agents of the creditor in relation to linked agreements  such as the sale of a solar panel 
system that was paid for using the credit.
Key documents
Key documents include a purchase order, dated 2 June 2014, the loan agreement (signed 
on behalf of Mitsubishi on 6 June 2014) and a letter confirming details of the system, dated 6 
June 2014.
Purchase order
The purchase order was signed on 2 June 2014 and confirmed that Mr H had agreed in 
principle to the purchase. It appears to me that it is at this point that Mr H agreed to the 
purchase. There is no written confirmation of what if anything he was told about the benefits 
of the system. Only that the basic price was £9,000 and basic information about the system 
 such as how many panels would be installed.
Loan agreement
The loan agreement was signed but not dated by Mr H. It was signed on behalf of Mitsubishi 
on 6 June 2014. I think it is likely that the loan agreement was signed by Mr H on 2 June 
2014. He has only mentioned one meeting with the supplier at which he agreed to the 
purchase. The loan agreement has been completed and signed by hand, likely during the 
sales meeting on 2 June 2014, whereas the signature on behalf of Mitsubishi is electronic. 
The loan agreement confirmed that Mr H intended to pay for the system using the loan and 
set out the repayment terms, including the monthly repayment and total amount payable. So, 
I think Mr H was given these figures and ought to have understood what he had to pay at the 
time he agreed to the purchase by signing the purchase order. There is nothing to suggest 
that what he had to pay was in any way dependent on the benefits he received from the 
system.
The letter
The letter confirmed details of the system, including a breakdown of the expected benefits in 
the first year, and total expected benefits over 20 years. The first-year benefit was 
significantly less than the annual loan repayments. Over 20 years the total benefit was 
expected to be much more than the total payable under the loan agreement.
My analysisAt the time of sale on 2 June 2014 there is insufficient evidence to show exactly what Mr H 
was likely told by the supplier about the benefits of the system and how these related to the 
loan repayments. But we know that Mr H was told about the loan repayments  so he knew 
what he was committing to pay on a monthly basis and over the term of the loan.
Mr H says that he was told the system would not cost him a penny and would come at no 
cost to him, because the benefits would cover the loan repayments on an annual basis. 
However, Im not persuaded this is likely to be what he was told. The loan agreement made 
it clear that he was responsible for making fixed monthly loan repayments for ten years.
The letter shows the first-year benefit is significantly less that the first-year loan repayments. 
If Mr H expected the loan repayments to be covered by the benefits each year, then this 
letter clearly contradicts this.
Even if I assume the letter was posted to him (rather than emailed on 6 June 2014), then he 
wouldve had this about a week after the sales meeting. So, I think what he was told at the 
sales meeting would still have been fresh in his mind. And that when he read the letter he 
wouldve queried the difference between what he was told and what was shown in the letter. 
At that stage he was still within the cooling off period and couldve cancelled the purchase 
without penalty. But it appears he did not take any such action. This suggests that what was 
shown in the letter did not contradict his understanding following the sales meeting. 
I think that, if what Mr H was told at the sales meeting was significantly different to the 
reality, then he wouldve made a claim or complaint much sooner. It ought to have been 
clear after the first year, at the latest, that the systems benefits were not exceeding the 
annual loan repayments.
I think it is more likely that what is shown in the letter reflects what Mr H was told in the sales 
meeting  that he could benefit by up to £1,000 in the first year (which is hundreds of pounds 
less than he would repay in the first year). But that over 20 years the benefits would far 
exceed what he paid overall  even if the loan ran to its full term.
So, I think it is conceivable that Mr H was told the system would be self-funding over 20 
years, but not that it would be self-funding on an annual basis throughout the loan term. It 
may be that Mr H misremembers what he was told. Thats understandable given how long 
ago it was. But Im not persuaded there was a misrepresentation or that his relationship with 
Mitsubishi was unfair on him for that or any other reason.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr H 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to conclude the 
relationship between Mitsubishi and Mr H was unfair on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman