DRN-3623899
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund her the money she lost 
after she fell victim to a scam. 
Ms M on bringing her complaint to our service was initially represented by solicitors but on 
referring the complaint for a decision the representatives were removed. For clarity, I will 
refer to Ms M throughout, even where submissions have been made on her behalf. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. After searching online for a product that 
Ms M wished to sell online, she says she found a link that contained contact details for a 
supplier who manufactured the product she was looking for. Ms M says she contacted the 
company and asked for a price. She says she received a quote for the price of the product. 
She also says she saw very positive reviews for the company online. 
Ms M explained she thought the price appeared reasonable and that this combined with the 
positive reviews and the responses she received from the company to the questions she 
asked, convinced her the company was legitimate.  
On 20 November 2020, Ms M called Santander to make an international transfer of 
£2,102.29. Ms M explained Santander asked her what the payment was for and shes told us 
she said it was for a business she wanted to start. Ms M recalls being asked if she was sure 
about the company she was looking to pay, and shes explained that as she believed the 
company was genuine at the time she replied yes.
After making the payment, the company Ms M was buying the product from told her it was 
getting ready to make the delivery. However, she was then contacted by it and told it was 
awaiting the money to clear. Ms M explained there was further communication between her, 
the company and the bank about the payment and whether it could be recalled. Ms M says it 
was when she was then asked to send the payment again via the money transfer service 
provider that she realised shed fallen victim to a scam.
Ms M complained to Santander via her representative in July 2021. Santander replied to say 
no claim had been raised with it. On 2 August 2021, the bank raised a scam claim. 
Santander said it wasnt liable for the money Ms M had lost. It said the transfer wasnt 
covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). After the scam 
was reported, Santander contacted the beneficiary bank in an attempt to recall the funds, but 
unfortunately it wasnt able to recover the money. 
Ms M remained unhappy with this and brought her complaint to our service via her 
representative at the time. One of our Investigators considered the matter and didnt think 
Santander was liable for the money Ms M had lost. This was because she didnt think 
intervention would have made a difference in this case. Whilst she wasnt able to listen to the 
call Ms M had with the bank when she asked to make the payment on 20 November 2020, 
due to it not being able to locate this, given what Ms M recollected from the time, she was 
satisfied Ms M wouldve proceeded with the payment. Even had further questions been 
asked by Santander, our Investigator didnt think Santander ought to have had concerns 
about the payment. 
Ms M disagreed with our Investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. She added that the company didnt put any pressure on her to make the 
payment, that the company was polite and responded to her questions. She said she was 
taking her time and didnt think this was a scam. Ms M said it wasnt until after shed made 
the payment that an agent of the company spoke to her in a rude manner. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case has now been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Santander should have done more to prevent Ms Ms loss. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms M, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. And while I recognise this will come as 
a disappointment to her, having thought very carefully about Santanders actions, Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
Ms M was a victim of a scam and paid money in good faith and received nothing in return. 
But, in weighing everything up, I dont think I can fairly say Santander should reimburse her 
for the money shes lost. Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. It is accepted by all parties that Ms M authorised the 
transfer in dispute. And so, under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the 
relevant regulations in place here) that means Ms M is responsible for the transfer. That 
remains the case even though Ms M was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Santander have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Ms M when she made the transfer, or whether it should have done more than it did. Ive thought about this carefully. Ms M spoke with Santander on 20 November 2020 and 
made the international transfer by phone. Unfortunately, its not been possible for me to 
listen to the call Ms M had with Santander on this day, as the bank has been unable to 
locate this. This means I dont know exactly what was discussed during this call. So, in the 
absence of the call, Ive considered what both Santander and Ms M have told us, and all the 
information provided to our service.
Having done so, based on the notes and recollections of this telephone interaction, on 
balance, I dont think the banks agent needed to do anything more here. Ms M has told us 
when asked what the payment was for, she said she wanted to buy a product online and 
start her business. Ms M also recollects that she was asked by the bank if she was sure 
about the company to which she said she was. I do appreciate Ms M has explained that said 
she confirmed she was sure about the company she was paying, at this time, as she was 
under the impression that it was genuine. 
But even if I consider that Santander ought reasonably to have asked further probing 
questions about the payment Ms M was asking to make, Im not persuaded this wouldve 
made a difference in the particular circumstances of this case. I say this because, I dont 
think there was anything about the circumstances leading up to the payment that wouldve 
put Santander on notice that Ms M might be at risk of financial harm. 
Ms M has told us she was looking online for the product she wished to buy for a business 
she wanted to start. That she found a link that included the contact details for the company. 
She researched the product, along with the company and says she found very positive 
reviews. In her contact with the company she was provided with information about the 
product, the price and sent what shes says looked like a professional quote. Ms M says the 
company were helpful in answering her questions and that she wasnt pressured to make the 
payment. That she took her time before making the payment. It wasnt until after the 
payment was made that she told us the company responded to her in a rude manner when 
they were communicating about the payment not clearing and her attempts through the bank 
to recall the payment.  
With this in mind, Im not persuaded that the likely answers I think Ms M wouldve given to 
Santander had further questions been asked, wouldve put the bank on notice that she was 
at risk of financial harm  to the point that it shouldve disregarded its obligation and refused 
to follow her payment instructions. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Santander did what it shouldve done once it was aware 
this was a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Santander to refund the money to 
Ms M, I need to be satisfied that Santander should have acted sooner in trying to recover the 
money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any 
difference. 
From what Ive seen and been told, Im aware Ms M contacted the bank about the payment 
and to ask it to recall it. Again, Ive not been able to listen to this call between Ms M and 
Santander as the bank has been unable to provide it. But I have seen from the banks notes 
that there was contact on 30 November 2020. This information indicates the reason for 
requesting a recall was due to the funds not being received. Further notes refer to Ms M also 
calling on 3 December 2020 and records her asking if the payment can be recalled and her 
mentioning it was taking too long. 
In this case, I have to keep in mind that the funds were transferred to an international bank 
account. International banks arent bound by the same rules and regulations as banks within the UK. The scam payment was made on 20 November 2020, and I can see the bank 
following Ms Ms contact did raised the matter with the receiving bank but unfortunately it 
wasnt able to recover the money. 
Im mindful that the scam claim wasnt raised until 2 August 2021 when the bank responded 
to the complaint Ms M raised via her representatives. The information shows Santander 
explained that it hadnt been told that the payment had been made as the result of a scam 
and that the recalls had been attempted due to the delay with the funds being received. 
But even if there was a potential delay in raising a scam claim (although Ive not seen 
anything that conclusively shows that there was), I dont think this wouldve made a 
difference in this case. Santander is reliant upon the international bank choosing to return 
the funds. It cant require or force them to and unfortunately the bank wasnt able to recover 
the money. And sadly, it is quite typical with these types of scams for fraudsters to move 
money away from the beneficiary account, straight after the payments are made, 
presumably to frustrate the efforts at this type of recovery. 
Its very unfortunate Ms M has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting for her. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably say Santander should have done more to prevent Ms M from losing this 
money. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Santander to refund the loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman