DRN-4335525
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the quality of repairs carried out by U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Direct Line (UKI) under a home insurance policy.
Mrs M is represented by Mr M in this complaint and I will normally refer to him.
What happened
Mrs Ms home was damaged by graffiti, so she made a claim to UKI. The claim was 
accepted and UKI agreed to repair the damage by applying new render. Mr M complained 
about the render applied. He said it was of a different quality and incorrectly applied. When 
UKI replied, it said it had referred the matter to numerous specialists and all were confident 
the render and primer were both of a similar specification and quality to the original. It said it 
was for Mr M to provide professional evidence to prove otherwise. However, it offered £200 
compensation for some poor service.
When Mr M complained to this service, our investigator didnt require UKI to do anything 
further in relation to the complaint. She said there was little evidence available to show the 
work wasnt to a satisfactory standard. She said the insurer had confirmed it would consider 
expert evidence provided by Mr M if he wished to send it, which was fair. She also said the 
£200 compensation UKI offered was reasonable in the circumstances.
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require UKI to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Im only considering the issues and what happened in the complaint that was responded to 
in March 2023. Im aware the discussion around the render and whether it was a suitable 
product have moved on since UKI responded to the complaint and Mr M also raised another 
complaint with UKI that remains ongoing. These dont form part of this decision. 
Ive considered all the evidence provided and am aware of all the points raised. Ive 
focussed my decision on what I consider are the key issues in order to make a fair and 
reasonable decision.
When UKI responded to the complaint, it said that although the contractor accepted it had 
used a different type of render, it was confident the render was equivalent to what was 
previously there. It said Mr M had previously been asked to provide expert evidence if he 
wanted to do so and UKI again invited Mr M to provide professional evidence to show 
otherwise if he wished to do so.
From what I can see, UKI carried out a detailed investigation into the issues raised by Mr M, 
including putting a range of questions and issues to the contractor who had applied the 
render. I dont think there was anything unusual about UKI asking its contractor to look again 
at the products used and the quality of the work. As part of this, UKI considered whether the 
render was a suitable product and whether it should be applied over the existing render. 
Based on the information available to it at that time, I think UKI fairly investigated the 
complaint and reached a reasonable conclusion. I also think it was fair that it invited Mr M to 
provide further evidence if he still disagreed.
Mr M only provided a report about the render a couple of months after UKI responded to the 
complaint. So, I havent considered that evidence as part of whether UKI fairly responded to 
the complaint. This information wasnt available to UKI at the time so it couldnt take it into 
account as part of trying to resolve the complaint and the issues raised.
Mr M raised a large number of issues in the complaint. Some of these were raised in an 
earlier complaint and so UKI said it wouldnt consider them again and they dont form part of 
this decision. But Im aware Mr M was concerned about not being properly consulted about 
the render that was going to be applied and how the work would be carried out, as well as 
how some visits were conducted, amongst other issues. UKI offered Mrs M £200 
compensation for issues around poor service. Having looked at the issues raised that form 
part of the complaint Im considering, including what seemed to be a breakdown in the 
relationship, I think the compensation offered by UKI was reasonable in the circumstances 
and I dont require it to pay anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Direct Line does not need to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman