DRN-2869812
The complaint
Mrs D complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined her legal expenses insurance 
claim.
QIC uses intermediaries to manage claims and administer its legal expenses insurance on 
its behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as as including 
the acts or omissions of such intermediaries. 
What happened
Mrs D experienced issues with her eyesight in 2018 after having new lenses fitted by a 
private hospital. She discovered that the lenses shed had implanted were faulty and that the 
lens manufacturer was paying for further treatment to correct the sight of people who had 
received other defective lenses. 
Mrs D subsequently approached a law firm (Firm H) who were pursuing a claim against the 
lens manufacturer on behalf of several other claimants, with all those affected having to 
undergo further surgery to correct the problems caused by the lenses. She contacted QIC in 
October 2018 to make a claim on her legal expenses policy to fund the legal action against 
the manufacturer, but the claim was declined. QIC considered her claim under the consumer 
disputes section of cover, but said that this wouldnt respond because a medical product 
such as lenses could not be considered as personal goods. It also said the claim was 
related to medical negligence, which was excluded under the policy. 
Mrs D submits that QIC has acted unfairly because it was not the negligence of the hospital 
or medical professionals that had caused her injury, but the defective lenses made by the 
manufacturer. But the insurer maintained that it was not willing to indemnify her claim. As a 
result, Mrs D said she had to sign a contingency fee agreement with Firm H. Mrs D was 
successful in her legal action against the manufacturer, but she had to pay the solicitors 
fees out of the settlement she received. She says that QIC ought to pay these costs as they 
wrongly declined her claim. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought that QIC were correct in declining cover 
under the consumer disputes section, as eye lenses couldnt reasonably be regarded as 
personal goods that were purchased by Mrs D. However, the investigator considered that 
the claim should have also been considered under the personal injury section of cover, 
which the insurer failed to do. So he said that QIC should consider paying Mrs Ds legal 
costs under this part of the policy.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it.
I appreciate that a medical product implanted during surgery cannot reasonably be classified 
as personal goods, such that it wouldnt be unreasonable for QIC to decline the claim 
under the consumer disputes section of the policy. But as pointed out by the investigator, the 
insurer has seemingly failed to consider the claim under the personal injury section of the 
policy.
The policy terms and conditions set out what is covered with regards to personal injury 
claims:
Professional fees to pursue a civil claim for damages relating to death or of bodily 
injury to an insured person caused by negligence.
The legal claim that Firm H pursued on Mrs Ds behalf was one for personal injury due to the 
damage the lenses had caused to her eyes and her sight. 
QIC submits that Mrs Ds claim would be excluded as a result of the clause in its policy that 
states it will not cover any claim involving medical or clinical negligence or pharmaceutical 
or any related claims (including tobacco products). 
However, it was not any medical negligence on the part of the surgeons at the hospital that 
caused the injury; there was evidently nothing they could have done differently in fitting the 
lenses that could have prevented the injury. Mrs D was bringing a claim against the 
manufacturer because the lenses theyd supplied were defective. So I consider it to have 
been the manufacturers negligence that was the proximate and effective cause of Mrs Ds 
injury (i.e. issues with her sight) in these circumstances  not the hospital.  
There is no specific definition assigned to medical or clinical negligence under the policy. 
But having considered the natural and ordinary meaning of these terms, I do not think the 
defective manufacturing of lenses can reasonably be considered as either medical or clinical 
negligence, as it wasnt any act or omission of the medical professionals that caused the 
injury in this instance. The fact that the lenses could only be fitted through a surgical 
procedure does not mean that any problems that later manifest must be due to medical 
negligence. I consider there is a distinct difference between the product thats fitted, and the 
procedure thats carried out to fit them, with the latter not being the cause of the injury in this 
case. Ive also considered the other remaining elements of the exclusion, (i.e. 
pharmaceutical claims etc) but Im not satisfied that any of these would operate to exclude 
Mrs Ds claim either. So Im not persuaded that the medical negligence exclusion can fairly 
apply in these circumstances, and I do not think QIC have acted fairly by declining the claim 
on this basis. 
It isnt clear why QIC didnt consider Mrs Ds claim under the personal injury section of cover, 
but Im satisfied that it should have. I appreciate that if the claim were accepted, then QIC 
wouldve had to approve Mrs Ds legal representatives, as well as undertaking an 
assessment of the claims prospects of success etc, before agreeing to fund the claim. 
However, given that the insurer failed to assess the claim fairly, it has now lost this 
opportunity, and Mrs D has now incurred legal fees that otherwise would have been covered 
under the policy. So I do not consider it would be fair for QIC to now decline to pay her legal 
costs just because it wasnt able to appoint the solicitors, assess the claim and agree to the 
costs before they were incurred (I note that Mrs Ds solicitors reported that her claim had 
positive prospects in excess of 50% in any event).
QIC has not cited any other policy exclusions or further reasons as to why the personal 
injury section of cover would not apply in these circumstances. So, I consider it should now pay Mr Ds legal costs (upon presentation of reasonable evidence of the costs she has 
incurred) subject to the policy limits. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct QIC Europe Limited to:
Pay Mrs Ds legal costs in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date the costs were incurred 
up until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman