DRN-3306836
The complaint
Mr P had a hire agreement with Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (MHCC), formerly known as 
Hitachi Capital UK Plc. He has complained about the way it dealt with the retention of a 
cherished number plate. 
Mr Ps wife has also been involved in the complaint but, to keep things simple, Ill mainly 
refer to Mr P. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties. So Im not going to go 
over everything in detail again here. But in summary, Mr P acquired a car under a three-year 
hire agreement with MHCC in May 2018. There were some issues with the car ordered, but 
Mr P says after some apologies and adjustments to the specifications he accepted it. Hed 
also arranged for a cherished number plate to be assigned to the car. He says he agreed 
with MHCC that at the end of the term, hed receive back the cherished number plate on a 
retention document in the same order as MHCC had received it. 
A few months before the end of the term, Mr P contacted MHCC to ask for the cherished 
plate to be returned. But when it was returned, he noticed MHCC appeared as the owner 
(grantee) of the plate. 
Mr P complained that MHCC was recorded as the grantee, and the time it took for it to 
arrange the retention. Mr P says recording MHCC as the owner meant he couldnt assign the 
plate to another vehicle. He couldnt sell it. And he said two other lease companies wouldnt 
accept the document and allow the plate to be assigned to a lease vehicle.  
MHCC explained that due to Covid-19 it had been processing retention requests online as 
opposed to via the post. This is because its staff were working from home. And it referred to 
an email it sent Mr P that explained it would process the request on the Driver and Vehicle 
and Licensing Agency (DVLA) website, and the process online is that the plate is 
automatically issued to the registered keeper of the car i.e., MHCC. But it did say that it had 
no interest in taking ownership of the cherished plate and that it asked Mr P to confirm he 
was happy to proceed, and to cover the costs if he was. As Mr P responded on 3 March 
2021 to confirm hed made the relevant payment and that he was happy to proceed, MHCC 
didnt think it had made a mistake. MHCC further explained it had sent Mr P the retention 
document with relevant sections signed so he could assign the plate to another vehicle. 
MHCC also responded to a complaint Mr P had raised about the service he received when 
enquiring about a hire agreement extension. It apologised for the service of one of its staff 
members and paid £30 compensation. It also highlighted the end date of the agreement had 
been recorded a day late. And finally, it noted Mr Ps comments that he was unaware the car 
was pre-registered when it was supplied and so he was surprised an MOT was required 
prior to the end of the term. And so MHCC paid him £50 to cover the MOT cost. 
The relevant email MHCC sent Mr P said in order for his cherished plate to be put on 
retention using the online service, it required payment and an email response. The email 
also said:
This process is usually instant via the DVLAs website however we will process these 
requests in order of receipt and depending on the volume of requests at this time this 
could take up to 2 weeks to process. We will contact you with a Number Plate 
Authorisation Letter once the retention is confirmed which will enable you to have 
your plates changed over to the newly assigned retention. 
The retention document will automatically be issued to the registered keeper when it 
is processed online (This is [MHCC]) we have no interest in taking ownership of your 
cherished number plate.
Once received back from the DVLA we will sign sections 1 & 6 on the document 
which will enable you to make any required changes you may need to make (i.e., 
Adding yourself as a nominee) and post this out to you at an address youll specify 
when able to. 
After Mr P complained, MHCC asked the DVLA to change the name of the grantee but it 
said this wasnt possible. I think the only way Mr P can be added as the grantee is if the 
plate is assigned to a vehicle registered to him. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into things. He 
thought MHCC had done enough to put things right. And he thought it issued a reasonable 
warning about the online process for obtaining the retention document. 
Mr P didnt agree. He says he agreed with MHCC the plate would be returned to him in the 
same order it was provided. And as that didnt happen the only option hed have would be to 
buy a car to facilitate the transfer which was both time consuming and costly. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
Mr P acquired the car under a regulated consumer hire agreement. And our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Mr P has raised various complaints against MHCC, but the crux of what hes still unhappy 
with is the complaint relating to the cherished plate. So this is what I will focus on. 
I think the key question I need to ask myself is did MHCC give Mr P an adequate warning of 
the implications of obtaining the retention document online. And I dont think it did. 
Mr P has said hes had the cherished plate for around 30 years and has never not had it 
registered to a car. So hes effectively now in no mans land, without a car to assign the plate 
to. I believe the usual process would have been for MHCC to have posted the forms to the 
DVLA which wouldve allowed Mr P to be recorded as the grantee. But the online process 
automatically placed MHCC as the grantee. 
Ive thought carefully about the email MHCC sent to Mr P setting out the online process. Im 
not persuaded it provided a sufficient warning that this was a significantly different process to 
what Mr P would have expected. It says the document will automatically be issued to the 
registered keeper. But this could simply mean the document is posted back to the registered 
keeper. I appreciate the email goes on to say MHCC has no intention of taking ownership, 
and that Mr P could make changes to it. But it could have done more to explain the online 
process is different to the postal method, and that MHCC would be recorded as the grantee. And I think it wouldve have been helpful to have explained the implications of that i.e., that 
the only way the consumer would be recorded as the grantee would be if they were to assign 
the cherished plate to a vehicle in their name. If that had happened, Mr P would have 
highlighted the issue. 
Ive also thought about the reasons why MHCC followed the online process. It says its staff 
members were working from home because of Covid-19. I can understand firms were 
impacted by Covid-19, there were operational challenges, and they had to get used to new 
ways of working. But Im also mindful that by the time Mr P asked for return of the number 
plate, it was mid-way through 2021, over a year after the outbreak of Covid-19. Lockdown 
restrictions were easing. And I think there was an expectation that financial service providers 
were providing more of a normal service by this point in time. 
Taking all this into account, I think MHCC hasnt acted fairly. And I think the problems Mr P 
now finds himself in were to a large extent foreseeable. Mr P was returning a car hed had 
under a hire agreement. So there was every chance hed be taking out another hire 
agreement. There wasnt an indication hed be buying a car, which is the only way he would 
get the number plate back. So how can things be put right?
Mr P doesnt have a vehicle registered to him that he can assign the cherished plate to. So I 
think the only way for him to properly take ownership of the plate will be for him to buy a 
vehicle. Im not intending to direct MHCC to do that for him. But I think Mr P should be 
compensated for the inconvenience of having to do so. I also think the DVLA fees for 
assigning the plate to the vehicle should be covered by MHCC. And should Mr P decide he 
doesnt want to keep the vehicle, if its sold within three months of purchase I think he should 
be able to recover the cost to take the plate off, as well as the loss in resale value, if there is 
any, subject to a certain limit. Theres clearly no industry guidance on what this amount 
should be. But Im minded to say that any reimbursement for loss in resale value should be 
capped at £1,000. 
As far as I understand, Mr P can only assign the plate to a vehicle that is taxed and has an 
MOT. So bearing in mind it is likely possible to buy a roadworthy vehicle for a few hundred if 
not thousand pounds, I think a £1,000 cap for loss is reasonable and safeguards Mr P from 
losing out financially. Should Mr P sell the vehicle on within three months I think he should 
also receive a refund of the associated vehicle insurance and road tax. Im suggesting a 
three-month time limit because I think this will give enough time to assign and then 
subsequently take off the plate if thats what he wants to do. If Mr P decides to keep the 
vehicle, then Im not intending to direct MHCC to reimburse him for further costs or losses 
other than compensation and the cost to assign the cherished plate. 
Ive thought about a fair amount of compensation. Mr P has gone through the upset and 
worry of finding out MHCC was recorded as the grantee of the complaint, and not having a 
suitable vehicle to assign the plate to. Theres been a lot of back and forth with MHCC. And 
Mr P is going to be put to the inconvenience of finding and buying another vehicle; insuring 
and taxing it; potentially having to sell it again; and taking steps to retain the plate. Its not a 
quick process. So Im minded to say MHCC should pay him £500. I think this fairly reflects 
the level of distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr P responded to the provisional decision. Im not going to repeat everything he said, but in 
summary:
Id not mentioned two conversations hed had with a staff member at MHCC during 
which he repeatedly said he wanted his document back in the same order it had 
been supplied originally. Hes had to make many phone calls and write lots of correspondence. He should not 
have the inconvenience of finding a vehicle. Hed not had an apology. 
MHCC had transferred another cherished plate a few months prior to February 2021 
without any issue. 
The compensation is not sufficient. He requests a minimum overall compensation of 
£2,500 or £1,500 and for MHCC to put one of its cars in his name so he can obtain 
the cherished plate.
MHCC responded to say, in summary:
It cant see it provided information to Mr P regarding the plate prior to delivery of the 
car. 
Its not aware of any customers experiencing issues in adding plates to vehicles with 
the paperwork thats been issued. 
Some customers add themselves as a nominee by sending the paperwork to the 
DVLA themselves after MHCC has signed it back over to them. MHCC remains the 
grantee but it would forward on the relevant documents to the customers once the 
DVLA has supplied it.
It can amend its email instruction to explain MHCC will be the grantee. 
If Mr P wants to add the plate to another leased car, sell or keep the plate he can 
send a document to the DVLA adding a nominee. This form will be posted back to 
MHCC as the grantee, but it would post it back to him. So it doesnt think its 
necessary for him to purchase a vehicle. 
It is willing to provide a separate letter to say it holds no interest in the plate. 
There shouldnt be a cost involved if Mr P decides to add the plate to another vehicle. 
Its tried to assist Mr P and provide alternatives. And it told Mr P about the retention 
process. 
It requests the compensation is reconsidered. 
We put MHCCs response to Mr P but he explained he thinks what it said was wrong. Hed 
spoken to the DVLA around half a dozen times and had been told he either needs to buy a 
new or second hand vehicle to be able to do what he needs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank both parties for their responses. Having considered everything, I think the 
recommendations I made in my provisional decision are a fair way forward. 
Its quite an unusual situation Mr P has found himself in, thats largely happened due to the 
unprecedented event of Covid-19. I think MHCC tried to come up with a solution that 
worked. And MHCC says it has for other customers. Im also mindful that MHCC did try to 
warn Mr P how the online process was different to the postal process. Although I have 
explained why I think it could have been clearer. 
Mr P on the other hand has been clear that he wants the plate returning to him as a grantee. 
Which isnt an unreasonable request. And I find his account of the difficulties hes been 
facing are credible. He tells us other leasing companies havent been able to accommodate 
his request. This seems to be a key issue, or else he couldve simply had the plate 
transferred to a new leasing company. He tells us hes spoken to the DVLA about it many 
times. I can see our investigator also called the DVLA and was told any trace of the finance 
company would be removed once Mr P puts the plate on another vehicle, in his name. As Mr P doesnt have a vehicle at present to do that, what Ive said in my provisional decision 
proposing MHCC cover losses Mr P incurs in buying a vehicle to facilitate the change still 
seems like a fair way forward. I cant bind Mr P to do something, so if I ordered MHCC to 
transfer a car to his name for the transfer, I couldnt ensure MHCC would get the car back. 
So Im not going to make that direction. 
Ive also thought about the level of compensation. I appreciate Mr P has had to make many 
phone calls. But as Ive said above, Im mindful that it was an unprecedented situation, 
MHCC did try to come up with a solution, and it did try to warn Mr P of what would happen. 
But as it wasnt particularly clear, I think the situation could have been avoided. In all the 
circumstances, rather than direct MHCC to apologise, I think the award of £500 is fair and 
reasonable and acknowledges things could have gone better. Im not intending to depart 
from my initial conclusions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc to:
Pay Mr P £500 compensation. 
Reimburse Mr P any DVLA fees for assigning the cherished plate to a new vehicle on 
receipt of evidence. 
If Mr P decides to sell that vehicle within three months of purchase, Mitsubishi HC Capital 
UK Plc should also:
Reimburse Mr P the loss of resale value (up to a maximum of £1,000), vehicle 
insurance and road tax, on receipt of evidence.
Reimburse Mr P the DVLA fees for taking the cherished plate off the vehicle, on 
receipt of evidence. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman