DRN-2873600
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about her pet insurance policies with Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited. 
What happened
In 2017 Mrs purchased five separate lifetime insurance policies for her five cats. At the time, 
Mrs B was an employee of Red Sands and so qualified for an employee discount of 25% on 
all the policies. Mrs B resigned from her job in November 2019. Because she knew she 
would lose the 25% discount, Mrs B says she arranged to change the cover provided on two 
of the policies, which would mean the policies were still affordable for her. 
However, I understand Red Sands neglected to remove the employee discount from Mrs Bs 
policies and in fact it says it applied an additional discount (which meant a 50% discount in 
total) on two of them for a couple of months, as the standard staff discount increased during 
this time. 
In mid-July 2020, Red Sands wrote to Mrs B as it had discovered the error it had made. Red 
Sands did not request that any money be repaid but it issued new policies and amended the 
premiums going forward, with effect from August 2020, without the discounts. This meant 
that all the premiums went up significantly. However, in September 2020, Red Sands says it 
conducted a business-wide premium review, which meant that the cost of Mrs Bs policies  
went down. I understand Mrs B was paying the following amounts for the five policies: 
November 2019, while still receiving the discount, approximately £88pm. 
December 2019, after she changed the excess on two policies, approximately £54pm.
January 2020 to May 2020 £65.61pm.
June 2020 £66.63pm
August 2020, after the discounts were removed, approximately £121pm.
September 2020, after the pricing review by Red Sands £96.08pm. 
Red Sands says Mrs B benefited from the discount for 10 months longer than she should 
have done, the premiums should have gone up in December 2019 (which was the first 
payment after she left her employment) but they went down. Mrs B was aware she was 
going to lose her discount but she did not query this. However, Red Sands also offered to 
refund Mrs B the difference between the discounted premium and the actual premium from  
1 June 2020 to 31 May 2021, as a gesture of goodwill. So effectively it maintained the 
discounts it had mistakenly applied for the year. Red Sands calculated that this 
compensation would amount to £101.64.
Mrs B says all this was a shock to her. She had budgeted carefully based on the premiums 
she was being charged and it caused her a great deal of anxiety at a difficult time to be told 
shed have to pay significantly more. Mrs B is also unhappy with the increase of the 
premiums at renewal and that she renewed two policies during this time before the mistake 
was realised based on the previous information given to her, unaware there had apparently 
been a 50% discount applied to those policies. Mrs B has made a number of submissions, 
which Ive summarised below:  
Her monthly overall premiums have increased in total from £66.63 per month to 
£96.08 per month and she now finds herself in a situation where she has to decide if 
the policies remain affordable.
The premiums on two of the policies have increased due to claims made and these 
will now go up each ear until they are above a fair premium. 
She reduced her working hours in 2020 but had she known her premiums were 
falsely deflated, she wouldnt have done so. She has since had to return to working 
full time.
Red Sands breached Financial Conduct Authority rules by not providing clear and 
accurate information about the price of the policies both at renewal, when no details 
of the discounts applied was provided, and when the discount increased from 25 to 
50%. 
If shed been notified when the discount went from 25% to 50%, shed have had an 
opportunity to say that it should have been removed.
Red Sands should have waited until the next renewal of each of the policies, to 
amend the premiums, rather than change the premiums part way through the policy 
years. 
She has not been given a proper resolution by Red Sands because she used to work 
there. The amount offered is pitiful based upon the circumstances. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She recommended that Red Sands should 
pay compensation of £250 to reflect the shock and inconvenience caused to Mrs B by the 
error it had made. 
Red Sands does not accept the investigators assessment. It says that while it made an 
error, Mrs B has benefited from the policies at a discounted rate and it did not reclaim; it 
says the offer it has made it sufficient to compensate for any trouble caused. 
 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Renewal prices 
Mrs B is unhappy with the general increase in cost of her policies and says that they will 
continue to increase each year until they are unfair. 
Insurers are generally entitled to decide the premium they want to charge for the insurance 
provided. And consumers are free to choose whether they are willing to pay that premium; 
obtain insurance elsewhere or not take the insurance at all. Normally insurers calculate a 
base premium rate for a policy and then other factors they consider relevant to the risk being 
covered are applied, which might bring that base premium up or down. Different insurers 
apply different factors. I cant set out in detail the factors that Red Sands consider relevant 
and apply to its policies, as these are commercially sensitive but I have considered the 
information it has provided. Its possible Mrs Bs premiums will go up each year as the cats become older; and the fact 
two of them have had claims in the past will also be relevant. However, I also note Red 
Sands reviewed all its pricing and (some of) Mrs Bs premiums went down as a result in 
September 2020. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs Bs policies have been priced 
unfairly and the increases applied do not seem unreasonable. 
So, while I appreciate Mrs B doesnt think the policy should be so expensive, and is worried 
about future premiums, I am not able to say Red Sands should have charged her less and I 
am unable to make any award or direction about the future pricing of her policies.
Discount
The rules that apply require an insurer to set out the cost of the policy clearly (among other 
information) so that a customer knows exactly what they will have to pay in order to make an 
informed decision whether to take the policy or not. While that arguably does not mean Red 
Sands was also obliged to set out any relevant discount before reaching the price quoted, I 
agree that setting out the discount would have been helpful and would have put the overall 
cost to be paid into context. 
In any event, however, I have no power to penalise or punish a business for breaching the 
rules. Rather I have the power to put right, where possible, any error made by the business, 
or if it has acted unfairly or unreasonably. As stated, Red Sands did make an error in not 
removing the discounts in December 2020 and then continuing them and applying a further 
discount on two policies.  I therefore need to establish what impact, if any, this had on Mrs B. 
In November 2019, Mrs B was paying around £88pm for all five cats. It was known to Mrs B 
that she would lose her discount when she was no longer an employee of Red Sands. 
However, the premiums didnt go up after she resigned, as Mrs B expected, they went down. 
There is no dispute the failure to remove the discount was an error on Red Sands part. 
Overall, Mrs B was better off for several months than she would have been if Red Sands had 
not made the error. Two of the policies also renewed with the discount still attached (before 
the mistake was realised) and Mrs B says she relied again on the information provided to her 
at that renewal to make budget plans.  
While I accept it may have been a surprise to Mrs B when Red Sands removed the 
discounts, Mrs B was receiving a discount she no longer qualified for and Red Sands was 
entitled to rectify the error when it was discovered. Im not therefore persuaded Red Sands 
should have waited until the end of the policy year for each policy, before doing so. 
Mrs B has also disputed the extent of the discount on some of the policies and how long they 
applied for. Given that Mrs B should not have had any discount beyond November 2019, I do 
not think I need to establish exactly what she should have been paying given that Red 
Sands has not sought to recoup that from her. 
Mrs B also thinks that the premiums have still not been adjusted properly. For instance, she 
says that when Red Sands removed the discount of 25% her premiums for some policies 
went up by 33% (not 25%) and when the 50% discount was removed, they went up 99% (not 
50%). However, I think this is right. The 25% or 50% discount would be applied on the 
starting premium, to bring it down and to get back to the starting premium you would not add 
25% of the discounted premium. For example, for one policy the premium went from £22.08 
up to £44.15 and Mrs B says this is a 99% increase, so she says it has gone up by more 
than the 50% discount. But if the starting premium was £44.15, applying a 50% discount to 
that would reduce the premium by just over £22.07, taking it to £22.08. So when taking away the discount, the premium would need to go up by £22.07 (i.e. almost 100%) to get back to 
the original premium. I am satisfied therefore that Red Sands did rectify the premiums 
correctly. 
Mrs B also says she has not received a fair outcome from Red Sands because it is 
penalising her for having previously worked for them. I have seen no evidence that her 
employment with Red Sands has affected how her complaint was dealt with. To the contrary, 
I think it has demonstrated it tried to rectify the matter fairly. However, having said that I think 
some additional compensation is warranted for the trouble caused. Mrs B says she reduced 
her working hours and then had to increase them again due to Red Sands error. While she 
might have relied on the discounted premiums quoted to her in deciding to reduce her hours 
in the first place, Red Sands is entitled to request the correct premium, so I am not 
persuaded Red Sands should compensate her for this. However, I accept that Mrs B was put 
to some trouble in sorting out all the policies and the correct premiums. I agree that the £250 
proposed by the investigator is reasonable to compensate for this. (For the avoidance of 
doubt, this is instead of the offer made by Red Sands to pay Mrs B the difference in the 
actual premium and the discounted premium of £101.64. So Red Sands does not have to 
pay this in addition.) 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Red Sands to pay the sum of £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs B.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman