DRN-3499661
The complaint
Miss O complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited were unfair in rejecting
her household property insurance claim.
What happened
Miss O says she noticed a damp problem at her property in around June 2021. She
contacted several damp specialists over the following months, but had some difficulty in
arranging for someone to inspect and repair the damage.
Eventually, someone did an inspection and said it was a damp problem they thought they
could resolve, but they said they wouldnt be able to start the work until February 2022.
Miss O decided that shed be prepared to wait as there was no underlying cause identified at
that stage.
However, in October 2021, the local water board said the amount of water being used in the
vicinity was much greater than it should have been. They felt there was a leak somewhere
but couldnt immediately identify where. They said they could do further investigation but that
it would be a while until that could happen. So, Miss O arranged for another company to
investigate. They found the leak was coming from a pipe underneath a path at the rear of
Miss Os property, and they repaired it.
Miss O claimed on her property insurance policy for the damage that had been caused by
the leak. But AA said it wasnt covered. They said Miss O shouldve contacted them as soon
as shed noticed the damp and that her failure to do so has led to a rise in claims costs. AA
said Miss Os failure to act sooner was a breach of the policy terms and conditions.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They said that regardless of Miss Os delay in
reporting things to AA, an insured peril had occurred and so it was only fair that AA made a
contribution toward the repair costs. The investigator acknowledged that the costs had likely
risen due to the time that had elapsed so said she felt a 50% contribution would be fair.
AA rejected this suggestion, saying that the 50% was arbitrary.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision last month, in which I explained why I felt AA had been unfair 
in their rejection of the claim and why it ought to now be dealt with. I said:
Ive provisionally decided to uphold this case, and to a greater extent than the investigator
did, Ill explain why.
AA have relied upon Miss Os delay in reporting the claim to them, saying she failed to
mitigate the losses. They say that if Miss O had notified them of the damp in the first
instance theyd have located and fixed the leak, and that the repair costs to the damaged
property would have been lower.
But I dont agree with AA on this point. Ive thought carefully about both whether Miss O
acted reasonably, as well as what would have happened if shed done what AA says she
should have done.
Firstly, I think Miss O did act reasonably. She identified a damp problem in her home and
contacted damp specialists who seem to have identified no underlying escape of water. I
think thats entirely reasonable and I wouldnt necessarily expect a consumer in the same
circumstances to contact their insurer.
Typically, damp alone is not covered by property insurance policies. So, there wouldnt really
have been any reason to inform the insurer  rather it would be for the consumer to deal with
privately  which is what Miss O was trying to do.
It was only later that an escape of water was discovered and that was the point Miss O took
further action in promptly arranging for the leak to be fixed, before then claiming for the
damage it had caused. Because, if damage  including damp  is caused by an insured peril
such as an escape of water, which the consumer couldnt reasonably have been aware of,
the repairs required to put things right generally are covered. Bearing in mind the escape
was underground, and neither the water board nor damp specialist had previously identified
the leak, I think it would be fair to say Miss O also couldnt reasonably have known about it.
So, overall, I think its fair to say that Miss O acted in the way most people would and 
without any knowledge of the leak  couldnt have done much more to mitigate the loss.
Turning to AAs point about the costs having increased, as a result of their view that Miss O
failed to mitigate or report the matter sooner. My view is that if Miss O had contacted AA to
report a damp problem, one of three things wouldve happened.
The first is that AA wouldve simply said there was no cover for damp. The second is that
theyd have sent someone to look for an escape of water, in case that was the cause. I think
the former is more likely, because insurers will say that its for the consumer to show an
insured peril is the cause.
But there appear to have been no obvious signs of an escape of water until the water board
investigated, so Miss O didnt even suspect that might be the cause  I note the pipe was
underground and she was unaware that there might be a hidden leak. Furthermore, the
damp specialist who investigated appears not to have had any concerns there may be such
a cause either.
Ive considered though that its possible AA would have sent someone to investigate. But,
given it took some time for the water board to identify the issue and that it wasnt seemingly
of concern to the damp specialist, I think its more likely than not that the AA wouldnt have
found the leak either and so nothing more would have been done, and the damage wouldve
continued just as it did anyway.
The third scenario would be AA finding and repairing the leak but bearing in mind what Ive
said above I think thats unlikely.
So, I think it follows that things would have panned out in the same way regardless of what
Miss O did. I think she acted reasonably, and even if shed acted in the way AA think she
should have done, the result would have been the same. So, AA havent lost out because of
what happened and were therefore unreasonable to reject the claim on the basis they did.That means I think AA ought to deal with the claim in line with the remaining policy terms, for
all damage found to have resulted from the escape of water. I note that some drying was
attempted at Miss Os expense, so if drying is covered the related costs ought to be
refunded, plus interest at the rate of 8% interest per annum simple from the date of payment
to the date of settlement. Options for dealing with any outstanding work covered can be
agreed between the parties, subject to the policy terms.
I think AA ought to have considered the claim in this way when it was first presented, in
October 2021. Since then, Miss O has been living in a damp property and says she didnt
have the means to carry out the repairs herself. Ive not seen anything at this stage to make
me think that repairs are unlikely to be covered, so I think Miss O has worried and suffered
unnecessarily as a result of the way the claim was handled.
I think it would be fair at this stage to say AA ought to pay £200 compensation for that.
I would like to make the point that it remains at least a possibility that AA will still consider
the repairs to be otherwise excluded from cover  even though that appears unlikely at this
stage. Of course, if that happens they should outline why in their response to my provisional
decision so any reasons for that can be considered under this case. If AA cant determine
that without further investigation, such as a survey being required first, they should advise
accordingly.
My provisional decision
It is my provisional decision that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited should deal
with Miss Os claim in line with the remaining policy terms, and not reject it on the basis that
the damp wasnt reported to them straight away.
In dealing with the claim, it would be reasonable to say AA should instruct a further surveyor,
due to the time which has passed since the previous one. And because Miss O is concerned
the leak may have caused structural damage.
AA should also pay Miss O £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss O replied to my provisional decision to say that she had nothing further to add. AA also 
replied, because they disagreed with me. They said that there was no section of the policy 
which provided the cover I was asking them to provide.
I asked AA to clarify their position because all along they had said theyd have covered the 
loss  but for the late reporting of the damage. So, it seemed odd to me that theyd now say 
theres no cover at all for this loss. I also said theres cover for escape of water to domestic 
pipes and that as the water board had said the pipes were private and were Miss Os 
responsibility to fix then they could reasonably be considered as domestic  even if they 
were also underground. I dont consider the two to be mutually exclusive.
AA said an escape of water claim requires the escape to have been from an internal pipe 
within the home. AA also explained that damage to underground pipes needs to have been 
accidental for a claim to be successful. AA said accidental damage hadnt been established 
so its not covered under that section either. 
Agreement couldnt be reached so I am required to reconsider the case, including the further 
arguments made by the parties.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I still believe a fair outcome to this matter is for the claim to be dealt with in line with the 
remaining policy terms. Thats because, as explained in my provisional decision, I dont think 
the late reporting has prejudiced AAs position.
Ive thought about AAs eleventh-hour argument that there isnt any cover in place. But they 
said all along that theyd have covered the loss it if it had been reported earlier.
In any event, Ive revisited the policy terms and conditions. I note that they say:
We will pay for loss or damage to the building caused by the following:
3. Water or oil as a result of a burst, leaking or overflowing domestic water or heating 
installation, appliance or piping. This includes damage to any water installation caused by 
freezing or bursting. We will also pay up to £5,000 in total for the costs we have agreed in 
advance for locating the source of the damage including the reinstatement of any wall, 
flooring or ceiling removed or damaged during the search.
There has been damage to the building, and that damage has been caused by leaking 
domestic water from piping. So, I consider the damage to be covered. Building is defined as 
your home which is defined as the address on the statement of fact. I do appreciate the leak 
wasnt within the so called four walls of the house, but it was within the property boundaries. 
AA has suggested the term is meant to be read as escape of water from a pipe within the 
property, i.e. house. But that isnt what the policy says, and it doesnt define what is meant 
by a domestic water pipe. So, I think its reasonable to say a pipe for which the water board 
says is Miss Os responsibility can be considered domestic.
While Ive considered AAs arguments I still believe my provisional decision to have been 
fair.
Putting things right
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must deal with Miss Os claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms, and not reject it on the basis that the damp wasnt reported to them 
straight away.
In dealing with the claim, AA must instruct a further surveyor, due to the time which has 
passed since the previous one. And because Miss O is concerned the leak may have 
caused structural damage beneath the property.
AA must also pay Miss O £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman