DRN-2271831
The complaint
Ms A and Mr P complain that National House-Building Council, trading as NHBC, unfairly 
declined their claim on their building warranty policy. 
What happened
Ms A and Mr P moved into their house in September 2016. When they became the owners 
of the house, they also became the beneficiaries of the ten-year NHBC Buildmark building 
warranty. This warranty began in January 2007. During years three to ten, the policy covers 
physical damage caused by a defect  subject to the policy terms and conditions. 
Shortly after moving in, Ms A and Mr P renovated the house as it had been empty for several 
years. During these renovations they noticed a damp patch under a window on the top floor. 
They thought this could have been caused by the house being empty for a while and painted 
over the damp as part of the renovation. 
A month after moving in, Ms A and Mr P say they were told by their neighbours that all the 
houses in the development had a build fault and it was suggested Ms A and Mr P should 
contact NHBC. Ms A did this. 
As there was no sign of water damage or any cracking or movement, NHBC declined the 
claim. They confirmed to Ms A that they can only consider a claim if there is physical 
damage present. It was also confirmed to Ms A that the warranty was expiring in 
January 2017. 
In February 2020 Ms A contacted NHBC again. She told them that the wall appeared to be 
crumbling away and they wanted to make a claim on the warranty. NHBC declined the claim. 
They explained the warranty policy lasted ten years and expired in January 2017. They said 
Ms A and Mr P had made their claim too late. 
Ms A and Mr P werent happy with this and complained to NHBC. Ms A said that NHBC had 
told her in October 2016, when she first spoke to them to explain about the damp patch, that 
she had reported the issue in time and any further issues would be covered. So, she wanted 
the claim to be dealt with. NHBC didnt change their decision. They said the call from 
October 2016 couldnt be found, but the notes confirmed what had been said. And they 
confirmed that only a claim for physical damage could be considered, and it had to be made 
before January 2017. 
Unhappy with this, Ms A and Mr P brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold it. He said that the physical damage had occurred after the warranty had 
expired. He agreed that NHBC were reasonable in declining the claim for that reason. Ms A 
remained unhappy and provided photos and additional evidence. But our investigator didnt 
change his opinion.
As Ms A and Mr P didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 3 of Ms A and Mr Ps Buildmark warranty policy is the relevant section I need to 
consider. It applies between years 3 to 10 of the warranty period and it says that its there to 
put right any actual physical Damage caused by a Defect. It goes on to list the parts of the 
house covered. The policy also confirms the definition of damage as:
Physical damage to the Home caused by a Defect.
So, I think its clear that there has to be actual physical damage for a claim to be accepted 
under this section of the policy. 
When Ms A called NHBC in October 2016 it would appear that she told NHBC the damp 
patch had been painted over and there wasnt any visible physical damage. Unfortunately, 
the call cant be provided. And when information is incomplete, I have to base my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  or what I think is most likely to have happened. 
In her complaint submission to our service, Ms A explains there was no visible physical 
damage when she first spoke to NHBC in October 2016. So, I have no reason to question 
the information that has been provided by NHBC in respect of the telephone call at that time. 
The history notes provided by NHBC are consistent with Ms As complaint submission to our 
service, and Im persuaded theyre an accurate record of the conversation that took place.
Ms A also explains in her submission to us that, even though the damp patch kept appearing 
during 2018 and 2019, it dried quickly. And it was only in 2020 that the damage became 
obvious and the wall appeared to be crumbling away. NHBC had explained to Ms A that the 
warranty was going to expire in January 2017. So, Im satisfied that the claim has been 
declined fairly, as the physical damage has only been notified to them after the warranty 
period has ended. 
I appreciate that Ms A has mentioned that her neighbours had their defects repaired by 
NHBC  but Im not considering that. Im only deciding if NHBC have dealt with Ms A and 
Mr Ps claim fairly, and Ive said Im satisfied they have. 
Ms A and Mr P have provided photos of the damage and a testimony from a building 
surveyor. But the photos and the testimony only confirm the current situation. I have no 
doubt that there is damage to Ms A and Mr Ps house. But I havent seen anything to 
persuade me there was physical damage to the house during the period the warranty was in 
place. And because of this, I wont be asking NHBC to do anything. My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman