DRN-4077350
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S (The Estate) believes that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
provided credit to the late Mrs S which wasnt affordable for her at that time.
This complaint is brought to this service on behalf of The Estate by the daughter of the late 
Mrs S, whom Ill refer to as Mrs W.
What happened
In July 2021, Mrs W complained to NatWest in her capacity as The Estate about several 
historical instances of credit provision  from the 1990s onwards  to the late Mrs S by 
NatWest. NatWest responded by Mrs W and explained that they didnt feel the complaint 
was one they could consider because of the passage of time that had elapsed since the 
events being complained about. Mrs W wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so she 
referred The Estates complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that there was 
reasonable or sufficient evidence that NatWest had provided credit to the late Mrs S 
irresponsibly as Mrs W believed, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to consider upholding a complaint such as this one  where the complainant 
maintains that the respondent business has provided credit to one of its customers which 
that customer couldnt reasonably afford  Id need to see evidence both that the customer in 
question couldnt reasonably afford the credit they were provided with and that the business 
providing the credit should have been aware of this fact, based on the information about that 
customer which they either did or should have obtained before providing the credit.
This evidence often takes the form of creditworthiness assessments conducted by the 
business before providing the credit, in conjunction with an understanding of the customers 
financial position at that time, obtained from personal testimony as well as from a review of 
that persons credit file. 
In this instance, however, all the provisions of credit by NatWest to the late Mrs S took place 
over a decade ago. And this means that the information and evidence needed to confirm 
whether NatWest did or didnt provide credit to the late Mrs S irresponsibly at those times no 
longer exists. And nor would it be reasonably expected to still exist, given the length of time 
since the events in question and the requirements for businesses such as NatWest to only 
hold information for a set amount of time  usually six years.
For instance, its known that NatWest increased the credit limit available to the late Mrs S in 
June 2004. But there isnt a record of what checks NatWest undertook regarding the 
financial position of the late Mrs S at that time before providing this further credit, or what the 
results of those checks were. 
It could be argued that this means theres no record that the late Mrs S could reasonably 
afford the further credit that she was provided with in 2004. But it can be correspondingly 
and equally argued that theres no record that the late Mrs S couldnt afford that further credit 
at that time, such that it was being provided to her irresponsibly.
This isnt to say that NatWest did or didnt provide credit to the late Mrs S that she couldnt 
reasonably afford. But it is to say that, ultimately, I dont feel that theres sufficient 
information or evidence surviving from the provisions of credit under consideration here 
which would fairly and impartially allow me to consider upholding this complaint. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Mrs W was wanting, but I hope that she can 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman