DRN-3338120
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the service he received from Metro Bank PLC surrounding the rolling 
over of a fixed term savings account he held with them.
What happened
Mr L held a fixed term saving (FTS) account with Metro which hed previously rolled over 
on several occasions. In May 2021, Mr L visited a Metro branch to complete the forms 
necessary to roll the FTS account over to a new term once again. 
However, Metro then proceeded to open the new FTS account before the existing FTS 
account had matured, meaning they debited the proceeds that Mr L was expected to receive 
from the existing FTS account from his current account before those proceeds had been 
received into that account. This placed Mr Ls account into a position of arrears, for which he 
was incurred interest and charges. Mr L wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Metro looked at Mr Ls complaint. They acknowledged theyd made an error by not rolling 
over Mr Ls FTS account as they should have done, and they apologised to Mr L for this and 
reimbursed the charges and interest that hed been charged. Metro also made a payment of 
£150 to Mr L as compensation for the trouble and upset that hed incurred, as well as made 
an offer of a further compensation payment of £25 for a subsequent interest amount that 
wasnt reimbursed when it first should have been. 
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Metros response and was frustrated with the difficulty hed had 
communicating with Metro about the issue and that the later interact amount hadnt been 
reimbursed when it first should have been. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response that Metro 
had already issued to Mr Ls complaint, including the corrective reimbursements and offers 
of compensation, already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had 
happened. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I note that Mr L has made several detailed submissions to this service. Id 
like to thank Mr L for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a discourtesy that 
I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I feel are the key 
aspects of this complaint  in line with this services role as an informal dispute resolution 
service. 
As such, if Mr L notes that I havent responded to a specific point that hes raised, it shouldnt 
be taken from this that I havent read and considered that point. Indeed, I can confirm that 
Ive read and considered all submissions provided by both Mr L and Metro. Instead, it should 
be taken that I have read and considered that point, but that I dont feel it necessary to 
address that point directly in this letter, in order to arrive at what I consider to be a fair 
outcome.
Metro dont dispute that they didnt rollover Mr Ls LTS account as they should have done, or 
that this caused Mr Ls current account to be placed into a position of arrears which resulted 
in fees and charges being incurred unfairly by Mr L.
In such circumstances, it would be expected that Metro would take the corrective action 
required to return Mr L to the financial position that he should have been in, had Metro not 
made the administrative mistakes that they did. 
I feel that Metro have done that here. And I say this because Metro have reimbursed to Mr 
Ls current account the charges and interest amounts that were unfairly incurred on the 
account because of it being placed erroneously into a position of arrears by Metro.
It would also be expected that Metro would apologise to Mr L for what took place and offer 
financial compensation to him for any trouble and upset that he may have incurred. And I 
note that in their response to Mr Ls complaint, Metro did apologise to him and did offer 
financial compensation.
This compensation included £150 in regard to Mr Ls initial complaint, as well as an offer of a 
further £25 when Mr L had to complain again, having noticed that an interest charge hadnt 
been reimbursed back to his account by Metro when it first should have been. In addition, I 
feel it also should be noted that Metro provided Mr L with a credit of £60 to cover interest 
charges totalling 39p.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. And Im 
aware that Mr L feels that the difficulty he encountered when trying to communicate with 
Metro to resolve this issue, and the frustration that arose from it, means that a much higher 
degree of compensation should be merited in this instance.
Ive considered Mr Ls position here, including that Mr L was clearly frustrated by his initial 
conversations with Metro where it seems that Metros agents didnt understand how to 
correctly resolve the issue, as well as the number of times that Mr L had to attempt to 
contact Metro to correct what had taken place. And it seems clear to me that Mr L did incur 
trouble and upset here, which was furthered by his having to complain to Metro again when 
an interest payment wasnt reimbursed by Metro as had been previously promised by them.
However, I also feel that Metros response to Mr Ls complaint, once correctly understood, 
was reasonable. And while I appreciate Mr Ls frustration with how Metro initially failed to 
grasp the situation, I feel that Metro did ultimately undertake the appropriate corrective 
action. 
Additionally, while Mr L may have been frustrated by his having to try to communicate with 
Metro on numerous occasions, I feel that some avenues of communication attempted by Mr 
L  for instance via social media  werent viable channels for such complaint 
communication, given the unsecured nature of those channels.
As such, in consideration of all the circumstances of this complaint, the offers of 
compensation already paid or offered by Metro to Mr L do feel fair to me here. And I can 
confirm that theyre commensurate with what I would have instructed Metro to pay, had they not already made those payments or offered to do so.
Consequently, I dont feel that Metro should be instructed to make any further payments of 
compensation to Mr L in this instance, beyond those to which theyve already agreed. And it 
follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Metro to take any 
further action beyond its existing offers at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr L was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman