DRN-3980828
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is that, because of difficulty in speaking to The Governor and 
Company of the Bank of Ireland trading as Bank of Ireland Mortgages (referred to here as 
BOI), they missed out on the interest rate product they wanted for their buy-to-let (BTL) 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs L also say that they were not told, and so remained unaware, that 
interest rate products were subject to change and could be withdrawn.
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs L would like BOI to honour the interest rate of 3.89%, 
which is the rate they were trying to discuss with the bank, or to compensate them for the 
difference in that rate and the rate they now have on the mortgage.
Mrs L has dealt with the complaint throughout, with the consent of Mr L.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs L being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Briefly, on 5 September 2022 Mrs L tried to log into the online customer hub to look at new 
mortgage interest rates for a BTL mortgage she and Mr L held with BOI. She wasnt able to 
log in, and so sent messages requesting a call back.
 Mrs L spoke to BOI on 10 September 2022. She wasnt happy with call waiting times, and 
was also disappointed that new customers were offered better interest rates than existing 
customers, and complained about this.
In its final response letter BOI explained that, at that time, call waiting times had been longer 
than expected. The bank paid compensation of £50 for this. BOI also explained that it was 
entitled to offer different rates for new business customers, and wasnt under any obligation 
to offer the same rates to existing customers. 
Mrs L didnt accept BOIs response, because she said shed never been told that interest 
rates shown on BOIs website were subject to change and could be withdrawn. BOI 
explained that it wasnt required to provide any warning about the withdrawal of fixed rate 
products, and couldnt reinstate a rate that had already been withdrawn.
Mr and Mrs L applied for a new two-year fixed rate product of 4.89%, which was effective 
from 1 October 2022. However, they remained dissatisfied with BOIs response to their 
complaint and brought it to our service.
Mrs L says that, after locking herself out of the online portal on 5 September 2022, she had a 
brief discussion with someone at the bank who told her she could choose a rate from those 
available in the portal, before 19 September 2022, to take effect from 1 October 2022. Mrs L 
was disappointed to note, however, that the available rates were based on a much higher 
loan-to-value ratio (LTV) than on her and Mr Ls property, which had a 34% LTV. 
On 7 September 2022, before Mrs L was able to speak to someone, she noticed that interest 
rates had risen by 0.6%, but there had been no warning given that rates could change. Mrs L 
said that if shed known the interest rates were going to change, shed have booked a rate 
on 5 September2022  rather than waiting to speak to someone at BOI. Mrs L said she tried 
to call BOI, but after holding for just over an hour, she had to go to work and so ended the 
call.
Mrs L says that shed assumed on 5 September 2022 that she had until her current deal 
expired to choose a new rate. This led her to believe that the rates shed initially been shown 
on the portal on 5 September 2022 were her rates and that was what she was being 
offered. Consequently, Mrs L believes BOI should honour the interest rate she first saw on 
5 September 2022, a rate of 3.89%.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think BOI had done anything wrong. 
She noted that the online portal had told Mrs L on 5 September 2022 that BOI would be in 
touch within ten days but that Mrs L had called two days later because shed noticed an 
increase in the rates. The investigator was satisfied that BOIs website confirmed rates were 
subject to variation and could be withdrawn. 
Mrs L claimed it would have been impossible for her to have booked a rate online, and that 
she thought the rates were her rates and so wouldnt change. The investigator noted, 
however, that Mrs L had also said that, if shed known rates were going to change, shed 
have booked the rate online on 5 September 2022 rather than waiting to ask BOI about her 
LTV and whether that would affect available rates. Mrs L says that she couldnt be expected 
to know that interest rates would change.
The investigator was also satisfied that BOI was entitled to offer different rates to new 
customers. The investigator thought the £50 for the call waiting time was fair and so didnt 
think BOI needed to do anything further.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to remember that this is a BTL mortgage, not a residential mortgage, and so 
the regulations that apply to residential mortgages - the Mortgages and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook  do not apply to this mortgage. BTL mortgages are 
considered to be commercial mortgages, and they are unregulated. Therefore BOI wasnt 
under any obligation to give Mr and Mrs L advice about their mortgage. As commercial 
customers, it is up to Mr and Mrs L understand how their mortgage operates, including the 
variable nature of interest rates.
In the rate switch section on BOIs website it says:  Our rates can be withdrawn at any time 
and without notice. The reason for this is that BOI, like other mortgage lenders, borrows funds in the wider financial markets at fixed rates. This allows BOI to offer a particular 
interest rate product on a portion of the funds it has borrowed. Rather like a cake that is cut 
into slices, borrowers apply for a slice of the borrowing (referred to as a tranch), and once 
all the tranches have been reserved, the product is withdrawn. There is no way of knowing 
when this will happen, as it is demand led, and subject to market conditions.
So whilst I appreciate how disappointing it was for Mr and Mrs L that rates went up between 
5 September 2022 and 7 September 2022, and then increased again after that, Im not 
persuaded that BOI ever guaranteed a specific interest rate product to Mr and Mrs L. 
Its unfortunate Mrs L wasnt able to speak to someone on 7 September 2022, but BOI, like 
other lenders in September 2022, was experiencing very high call volumes. Im satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs L could, if theyd wanted to, have booked a rate online without the need to speak 
to BOI. Mrs Ls position is that, while she had an outstanding question relating to the LTV, 
she couldnt have booked a rate, but thinks BOI should have held the rate that would have 
been available on 5 September 2022 until her question was answered. 
However, Im not persuaded that would have been reasonable; other customers were 
entitled to apply for that rate and so it would not have been fair for BOI to allow Mr and Mrs L 
to book a rate online while they decided whether or not they might, or might not, apply for it 
once their queries had been answered.
As I said above, as commercial customers, the onus was on Mr and Mrs L to understand 
how their mortgage worked, and to be aware of the information on BOIs website about the 
banks entitlement to withdraw interest rate products without notice. Im therefore not 
persuaded that BOI is under any obligation to offer Mr and Mrs L an interest rate product 
which they didnt apply for, and which later expired.
Overall I think the £50 paid by BOI for the inconvenience caused to Mrs L when she had to 
terminate a call after 70 minutes is fair and reasonable. Because Im not upholding the 
complaint about the withdrawn interest rate products, Im not ordering BOI to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman