DRN-3293876
The complaint
Mr and Ms T have complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to reject a claim they 
made under their home and buildings insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mr and Ms T reported damage to their home in January 2021 to their broker. They said the 
damage had been caused by a named storm on 26 December 2020. They had emergency 
remedial works carried out. 
In January 2021 the insurer AXA arranged for an assessor to inspect Mr and Ms Ts home to 
validate their claim. The assessor said the damage had been caused by a gradual 
deterioration of materials. So AXA declined Mr and Ms Ts claim. 
Mr and Ms T provided a report from a builder and it complained to AXA about its decision. 
But AXA maintained that its decision was correct and in line with the policy.
Mr and Ms T asked us to look at their complaint. They provided a further report including an 
opinion from a structural engineer as to the probable cause of damage. Mr and Ms Ts 
representative didnt agree that AXA had correctly applied the terms of the policy when 
declining the claim. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought AXA had 
reasonably declined the claim. 
Mr and Ms Ts representative didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers provide cover for specified insured perils such as storm, flood or theft. This means 
insurers dont provide cover for every eventuality. AXA  like most if not all other insurers  
doesnt provide cover for damage caused gradually. 
Mr and Ms T say the damage to their property was caused by a storm. We ask three 
questions in order to consider if an insurer has fairly declined a claim for storm damage. 
These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Mr and Ms Ts policy with AXA sets out its definition of a storm. I dont intend to go into any 
further detail as to whether a storm occurred in my decision because all parties agree that 
storm conditions occurred on or around the time when the damage being claimed for 
occurred. 
So the answer to the first question is yes. 
I think the damage being claimed for is consistent with a storm. Approximately 25 roof tiles 
became dislodged or moved. So the answer to the second question is also yes.  
In relation to the final question, AXAs policy says the following under the section; How we 
settle claims  Storm Damage claims
Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage or were
other factors involved. For example, we look if the damage would
have occurred without the storm. This insurance policy is not
designed to cover you for any gradual deterioration, wear and tear
or loss or damage resulting from inadequate maintenance. Please
see the general exclusions and conditions section of this policy for
more information.
AXA instructed an assessor to visit Mr and Ms Ts home a few days after the broker made a 
claim on their behalf in January 2021.
Mr and Ms T had arranged for remedial repairs to be done before AXA were aware of their 
claim. Ive carefully considered the comments and structural engineer report provided by Mr 
and Ms Ts representative. They say that part of why the assessors view cannot be relied 
upon is because repairs had already been carried out before he inspected the property. The 
representative says that a more detailed report provided by the assessor was prepared 
months after the visit and in response to this service. So it isnt contemporaneous and 
cannot be relied upon.
The assessor provided an inspection summary report which Mr and Ms T had sight of at the 
time. When dealing with Mr and Ms Ts complaint about its decision, AXAs notes show that 
in January 2021 it accessed the assessors online portal and was able to view the assessors 
more detailed comments and photos from the visit. AXA told us that it wouldnt usually 
provide a copy of the report the assessor provides for it to customers. Instead the assessor 
provides a summary letter (report) to the customer as they have delegated authority to 
decline a claim on AXAs behalf. Based on the information available, Im reasonably satisfied 
that the information provided by the assessor was what it recorded at the time of their 
inspection.
The representative says that the assessor report AXA provided for this service cannot be 
relied upon because it is based on conjecture. This is because the representative says due 
to the storm damage, approximately 80% of the deteriorating material in question had been 
removed prior to the assessor attending the property. 
It is for a customer to prove their claim. I understand that Mr and Ms T arranged for a builder 
to carry out emergency repairs before submitting a claim to AXA. But I think the same 
reasoning for conjecture could apply to the structural engineer report dated 21 October 2021. This is ten months after the damage occurred, after Mr and Ms T said they intended to 
arrange for full repairs in March 2021 and based on photos taken by the assessor in January 
2021  after the remedial repairs had been completed. The report provides an opinion on the 
probable cause of the damage. The opinion in summary is that structural damage has 
occurred as a result of the named storm and the damage internally and externally are 
therefore as a result of an insured peril. 
The builder who carried out remedial works recommended the entire existing tiled roof 
covering be replaced. We understand from Mr and Ms Ts representative that this is the 
works they had done  and this is a reason why it was of no use for a structural engineer to 
visit the property in October 2021 as  like the assessor  they were unable to witness the 
damage at the time of the event.
The assessors comments on the inspection summary report was that the claim should be 
declined giving the cause of damage as deterioration over time. Key further comments from 
the assessor were that the damage was due to a natural breakdown in materials and 
deteriorated mortar works. The assessor said that Mr T had advised him when he visited that 
mortar had crumbled and was getting worse when it had rained over the past year and they 
would clean it up. 
Mr and Ms Ts representative deny this was said. In response, Mr and Ms T say they had no 
way of telling of the amount of deterioration until the slates/tiles were taken off. They said 
there was minimal residue because it was a fine layer of dust picked up along with dead 
flies. They said this was more predominant after the named storm and more was picked up 
as the roof tried to move and twist. But I think this still shows that there was a known pre-
existing issue with deteriorating mortar to the roof.
Photos by the assessor show several tiles of different ages and colour on the roof, which 
represents remedial and previous repairs carried out. 
As AXAs policy explains that it doesnt provide cover for loss or damage due to gradual 
deterioration or wear and tear, or (my italics emphasis) loss or damage from inadequate 
maintenance, I think its enough for AXA to decline the claim for the first two reasons. 
And having considered everything, I think AXAs decision to decline the claim for storm 
damage is reasonable and in line with the policy. I think it has reasonably shown that there 
were pre-existing issues with the roof by the breakdown of materials which led to a 
weakness which storm conditions made worse. I have looked at the examples of work Mr 
and Ms T have undertaken to the property provided by the representative. As the 
investigator explained, they dont show any previous works carried out to the area of the roof 
where the damage occurred.
In relation to the internal damage, the assessor provided photos and said the damage was 
not caused by an insured peril. He said they were cracks due to a failure of lath and plaster 
ceiling and a natural breakdown in materials. 
The reason AXA gave in its response to the complaint for declining the claim was because 
the assessor concluded the damage was not directly caused by a storm. So I think the 
answer to the final question is no. 
I understand Mr and Ms T will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think AXA 
reasonably declined their claim for storm damage in line with the terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman