DRN-4066624
The complaint
Mr C complains that Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited trading as My Community Bank 
(MCB) provided him with poor customer service on a number of issues in relation to a 
maturing fixed rate bond.
What happened
Mr C says that he applied for a two year fixed rate deposit bond in March 2020. He says he 
received an email from them on 17 March 2022, informing him that his fixed rate was due to 
mature on 20 March 2022. Mr C responded to confirm the whole balance should be 
transferred into his linked external account, which MCB acknowledged the following day, and 
they stated it would take two working days to process the transfer after the account had 
matured. Mr C asked if he would receive interest for these two extra days and MCB 
responded that the capital stops earning interest on the date of maturity.
Mr C says that he rung MCB on 21 March and he asked them if £10,000 of the maturing 
capital could be reinvested into another account that he had applied for the previous day, as 
the transfer of funds remained pending, but he says he was told that would not be possible 
as he had already requested the full amount to be transferred to his linked/external account. 
Mr C asked to raise a complaint.
As he had not received his matured funds by mid-afternoon on 22 March 2022, he 
telephoned MCB again, but he was unable to speak to a call handler, so he left a message 
to be called back and he sent them an email. Mr C says that he received a notification from 
his external bank at 18:19pm (which he said was outside of working hours so it was 
effectively received after two working days), saying that his funds had been received, 
however, they were £10,000 less than what Mr C was expecting. Mr C received a phone call 
the next day advising him to write a complaint and to mark it for the call handlers attention. 
MCB upheld Mr Cs complaint. They said that unfortunately, due to a system failure he was 
unable to see the funds in his account and they apologised for this and any distress it may 
have caused. They said to resolve his complaint, they would like to offer him three days of 
lost interest on his balance of £10,726.48 which adds up to £1.59 and they would also like to 
offer him £25 as a gesture of goodwill. They said with the £10,000 reinvested, they have 
backdated the interest to the date his account matured to ensure no interest is lost. Mr C 
brought his complaint to our service. He said MCB had not addressed all of his points in their 
response to him.
Our investigator said she thought MCBs offer was fair. She said although there was a 
system issue which prevented him from viewing his account, there was no impact to his 
funds once the system was operational. She said that MCB had operated in line with their 
terms and conditions. Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the 
circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account 
relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business 
has failed its customer in any way.
Where we find it has, we make awards designed to make the business put things right with 
the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to punish a business or to make it 
change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the role of the 
regulator. As such, our service cannot ask a business to change their policies or procedures.
I must explain to Mr C that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how MCB have investigated his complaint, 
such as deciding when they believe a complaint is resolved do not come under my powers to 
consider. 
Ive considered the events leading up to the bond maturing. MCB emailed Mr C on 17 March 
2022, to let him know his account was maturing. But there was no mention of two working 
days in this email. MCB accepted Mr Cs instruction on 18 March 2022. They then told him to 
please allow two working days to process your query after your account is Mature. So it 
appears that 18 March 2022 was the first time he found out about the notice. Mr C enquired 
about interest on the funds during the two days, but they confirmed to Mr C after several 
back and forth emails that interest would not be earned on the two working day period. 
Mr C rang MCB on 21 March 2022, as he had not received his funds yet. I asked MCB if I 
could have a copy of the calls he had with them, but unfortunately MCB have confirmed they 
do not keep call recordings for longer than 90 days, so unfortunately Im unable to rely on 
these here. Mr C says he asked the call handler on this call if a proportion of the maturing 
capital could be reinvested into another fixed rate account he had applied for. But he was 
told this wasnt possible. So an expectation was set for Mr C that all of the matured funds 
would be paid to his linked account  but this didnt happen as the funds he received were 
lower than expected by £10,000. This would have been distressing for Mr C. This was also 
compounded by the fact MCB were experiencing system issues around this time. 
As a result of the system issue, it appeared to Mr C that the matured account had been 
closed and the statement on the account showed that MCB transferred £10,726.48, but it did 
not show where the missing £10,000 had went. This again would be very upsetting for Mr C. 
But this wasnt the full extent of the system problems as Mr C says that the new account he 
applied for was still showing at the application stage, so it wouldnt appear that the missing 
£10,000 had been applied to his new account  and in any event, he had been told this 
wasnt possible, so the situation would be distressing for Mr C who would be under the 
impression at that point that £10,000 of his money had been lost. He was further 
inconvenienced by having to contact MCB to locate the missing funds. But the call handler 
was unable to locate the funds and told Mr C he would get a call back. MCB then confirmed 
on the call back the £10,000 had been placed into his new account. 
Ive considered the issues regarding what Mr C has said about the two days working notice 
and he believes that the remaining matured funds were paid outside of this timeframe. I 
agree that there is no mention of the two working days in the terms and conditions for 
maturity. MCB have explained to me that the reason there is a two working day notice is 
because as a small organisation, they sometimes need longer time periods to manually 
process payments compared to a larger organisation (who may use payment automation). They have said that if Mr C had made them aware that he needed the money urgently, then 
their customer service team would have endeavoured to accommodate him. 
But while I appreciate the explanation from MCB, this was not explained to Mr C prior to him 
opening the account. So Im persuaded that it would be unfair for him to find out about this 
for the first time two days prior to maturity. Although MCB have said that if he needed the 
money urgently he could have contacted them, this would inconvenience Mr C by him 
needing to act on a lack of communication with him about the two working days notice. MCB 
have told me that they recognise that it would be helpful to include this in their terms and 
conditions and this update is in progress. If this would have been in the terms and conditions 
prior to Mr C opening his account, then he would have been fully informed of this prior to the 
account opening. It would then be his choice whether to open the account and understand 
he wouldnt receive interest on the two working days it took to transfer the funds, or whether 
he wouldnt want to accept this and instead he could have chosen to deposit his money with 
a different provider who didnt have these conditions.
Im not persuaded that Mr C was paid the funds outside of the two working days. I appreciate 
he received funds around 18:19pm, but MCB have said that their working day ends at 
18:00pm, but even if this ended at 17:00pm, a faster payment can sometimes take up to two 
hours to be received. MCB would not be responsible for when a payment is received  only 
when it is made, so given that their working hours finish at 18:00pm, it would be expected 
that the payment was sent prior to 18:00pm. But as part of the complaint they offered to 
cover interest on three days instead of two which I think was fair for this part of his 
complaint. 
While the terms and conditions do not mention the two working days to receive the funds, 
they state If you do not give us instructions before the end of the term (or we cannot 
reasonably comply with your instructions), on the last day of the term (or the next working 
day if this falls on a Saturday, Sunday or Bank Holiday), we will transfer the balance in your 
account into another account in your name, interests in relation to this account will be 
determiniated (sic) from time to time but the could be zero. But as Mr C did give instructions 
before the end of the term, this is why they did not transfer the balance into another account 
in his name on the next working day (as the maturity was on a Sunday). 
Ive considered what happened regarding the £10,000 being paid to Mr Cs new account as 
opposed to being transferred to his linked account. Its clear there was a breakdown of 
communication here. The call handler told Mr C this wasnt possible, but then it happened 
anyway. Originally Mr C wanted his new account to be funded with this money, but when he 
was told it couldnt be, he would need to make other plans to fund his new account. I can 
see from the system notes that MCB attempted to call Mr C on 22 March 2022 at 10:11am to 
query if he would like to reinvest £10,000. The note also says no answer/option to leave a 
vm (voicemail). 
So it appears that MCB acted in good faith after realising they told him the incorrect 
information on the phone. And they acted upon his original request to transfer this money to 
the new account as he originally asked them to. And due to the system issues at the time, he 
could not see this had happened. While MCB have backdated this deposit, this still wouldnt 
excuse their lack of communication on this issue with Mr C prior to this happening  even if 
they did attempt to ring him as they didnt get his authorisation to move his money into the 
new account, which they told him would be paid to his external account.
I have seen an outbound call note (11:17am) that MCB rang Mr C on 23 March 2022 and 
told him that the £10,000 had been transferred to his new account and that when Mr C told 
them he didnt authorise this, the call handler offered to transfer it back, but Mr C said that 
wasnt the point as they hadnt asked for his authorisation. Mr C has highlighted inconsistencies in the two working day period as he has told us about a 
separate instance where they released funds for him in a quicker timeframe than this. I 
asked MCB about how he was able to receive the funds quicker in a separate incident and 
they told me that their customer service team endeavours to meet all of their customers 
needs and may be able to make exceptions to their processes if this provides a good 
outcome for a customer. They said this is why Mr C may have perceived some 
inconsistencies in their approach. I know Mr C may disagree with this based on what 
happened in March 2022, but I hope this explains to him that this is the reason why they 
made an exception on his separate incident. 
Mr C has mentioned issues getting through to a representative at MCB as hes had at least 
one occasion where he couldnt get through to a call handler. But MCB did have a voicemail 
facility which he used and it appears that he received a call back from them.
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. MCB have offered Mr C £25 
as a goodwill gesture and £1.59 interest to cover the two working day notice (but this would 
reflect three days interest). But Im not persuaded this recognises the impact that these 
issues had, and Ill explain why. 
As Ive already documented there were a number of times Mr C had been told either 
incorrect information or he had not been effectively communicated with, which led him to be 
inconvenienced by having to contact MCB. From not being told initially about the two 
working days notice until only two days before the account matured, to being told wrong 
information about being able to transfer the £10,000 to his newly opened account, to being 
given an expectation that the full funds would be paid to his linked account, to MCB acting 
without his authorisation, to then not being able to see where the missing funds were, with 
the system issues he faced  and a call handler not being able to see this either, leading to 
the outbound call with this information. All of these factors would have caused Mr C either 
distress or inconvenience to find out what was happening with his money here, so Im not 
satisfied that £25 covers the impact of what happened here.
Im satisfied that an extra £50 to total £75 compensation would reflect the impact that all of 
these factors had on Mr C, in addition to the £1.59 of interest they have offered him. In 
deciding what is fair and reasonable here, Ive taken into account that these issues were not 
issues which lasted multiple weeks or months. Often, Mr C had an answer or an explanation 
in a day or two, and the majority of issues he had were between 18 March 2022 and when 
he received his confirmation of investment email on 31 March 2022. But MCBs actions 
would have caused Mr C distress and inconvenience, and therefore I intend to ask MCB to 
put things right.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. MCB accepted the provisional decision. Mr C did not accept the provisional 
decision. He made a number of points. In summary, he disagreed that MCB acted in good 
faith by transferring the £10,000 to his new account just because he missed a phone call 
from them. He said the reinvestment of half of his funds was processed against his written 
authority. Mr C said he doesnt accept their argument that they do all they can to release 
customers funds on time and it was only because he threatened them with a complaint to 
our service that they released funds from subsequent matured accounts. He said they know 
when funds mature so there should be no excuse for them holding onto customers funds 
and they havent explained why they do this. 
Mr C said that MCBs terms state that maturing funds will be transferred into another account 
the next working day if the maturity day falls on a bank holiday or weekend, but they failed to 
transfer his funds on the day after maturity, so they acted against their own terms and 
conditions. Mr C said that it was unacceptable that he was unable to speak to a call handler on 22 March and that he only received the voicemail facility after the fifth time of trying and 
after he had spent over an hour on the phone trying to contact them. He said MCB should 
not have erased the call recordings especially as they knew he was bringing a complaint to 
our service. Mr C said he believed the £75 compensation was too low for what happened. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, this service is not the regulator. It is not within our 
services remit to instruct a business to change their policies and procedures. It would be the 
role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct MCB 
to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. I say this to explain to Mr C 
that Im unable to ask MCB to change their policy about allowing two working days notice for 
the funds to be released, or regarding their policy of not keeping call recordings after 90 
days. Im also unable to ask them to change their telephone procedures, for example asking 
them to ensure the phones are able to be answered in a timely manner, or when to use their 
exceptions process to release the funds earlier than the two working days.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about MCB not acting in good faith. While I dont agree 
with this, I can understand why he feels this way. He says that his phone has an active 
voicemail which is never off, they could have tried to call him back or email him. I agree with 
him that these are things which MCB could have tried to do. But Im still persuaded that they 
acted in good faith. I say this because Mr C had originally asked for funds to be paid into his 
new account with them, only to be told the wrong information about this. So thats why Im 
persuaded they acted in good faith by paying £10,000 into the new account to correct the 
wrong information that they told him when they saw Mr C hadnt funded that account yet. 
And they offered to transfer the money back when Mr C told them they acted against his 
authority. But I agree they acted without his authority as I detailed in my provisional decision. 
Ive considered what Mr C has said about MCB not explaining why they need the extra time 
to pay the matured funds, but as I said in my provisional decision MCB have explained to 
me that the reason there is a two working day notice is because as a small organisation, 
they sometimes need longer time periods to manually process payments compared to a 
larger organisation (who may use payment automation).
Ive considered what Mr C has said about MCB breaking their terms if the maturity day falls 
on a weekend. But Im not persuaded that they did break these terms. The wording is very 
specific here. I addressed this in my provisional decision when I said While the terms and 
conditions do not mention the two working days to receive the funds, they state If you do not 
give us instructions before the end of the term (or we cannot reasonably comply with your 
instructions), on the last day of the term (or the next working day if this falls on a Saturday, 
Sunday or Bank Holiday), we will transfer the balance in your account into another account 
in your name, interests in relation to this account will be determiniated (sic) from time to time 
but the could be zero. But as Mr C did give instructions before the end of the term, this is 
why they did not transfer the balance into another account in his name on the next working 
day (as the maturity was on a Sunday). So it would be only if Mr C didnt give them 
instructions they would have transferred funds into an account the following day. This could 
have been transferred into an account which earned no interest as this term states. But Mr C 
did give them instructions, so this is why this term did not apply here.Ive considered what Mr C has said about him needing to ring MCB five times and it was only 
after an hour when there was a voicemail facility. While I can understand the frustration of 
this, Mr C was able to contact MCB via other methods as opposed to phone. While I 
appreciate he may want to try and speak to someone direct to resolve the issue, I cant say 
this was the only way he could communicate with them. But I had included the 
inconvenience of what happened here without my provisional decision due to the 
inconvenience he faced as a result of MCBs actions. 
I know Mr C feels the £75 compensation is too low. But compensation is a discretionary 
remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and 
therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer over and above that which 
naturally flows from the event. When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and 
within our established guidelines. As Ive said in my provisional decision, Ive had to take 
into account that these issues were not issues which lasted multiple weeks or months. 
Often, Mr C had an answer or an explanation in a day or two, and the majority of issues he 
had were between 18 March 2022 and when he received his confirmation of investment 
email on 31 March 2022. 
Thats not to take away from what Mr C has experienced in March 2022. In my provisional 
decision I acknowledged this when I said there were a number of times Mr C had been told 
either incorrect information or he had not been effectively communicated with, which led him 
to be inconvenienced by having to contact MCB. From not being told initially about the two 
working days notice until only two days before the account matured, to being told wrong 
information about being able to transfer the £10,000 to his newly opened account, to being 
given an expectation that the full funds would be paid to his linked account, to MCB acting 
without his authorisation, to then not being able to see where the missing funds were, with 
the system issues he faced  and a call handler not being able to see this either, leading to 
the outbound call with this information. All of these factors would have caused Mr C either 
distress or inconvenience to find out what was happening with his money here, so Im not 
satisfied that £25 covers the impact of what happened here. So based on what has 
occurred, I do feel that £75 compensation is fair for what happened here. 
In summary, Mr Cs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr C will be disappointed, but I hope 
he understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask Brent 
Shrine Credit Union Limited trading as My Community Bank to pay Mr C a total of £75 for 
distress and inconvenience and £1.59 for a loss of interest. Im still satisfied this is a fair 
outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited trading as My Community Bank 
should pay Mr C a total of £75 for distress and inconvenience and £1.59 for a loss of 
interest.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman