DRN-3473939
The complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) did not take direct 
debit payments on a hire purchase agreement. As a result, adverse credit information has 
been registered against his name.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr H entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS. Under 
the agreement, he was to make monthly payments of £265. The first was due in the middle 
of September 2020. Mr H signed a direct debit mandate for the payments at the same time 
he signed the hire purchase agreement. Payments were to come from the joint account he 
holds with Mrs H.
The first two monthly payments were not taken, however. VWFS contacted Mr H after the 
second payment had been missed to tell him that his account was two months in arrears. 
The third payment, in November 2020, was taken successfully.
VWFS said that payments were requested but they were missed because either Mr H or his 
bank had cancelled the direct debit instruction. It had called for them, but they had not been 
made. Mr H denied that he had cancelled the direct debit instruction. He provided a letter 
from his bank saying that VWFS had not called for payment until November 2020. The bank 
also said that the direct debit had not been set up until 3 November 2020. Payments have 
been taken successfully since then. Mr H has not however made the missing payments; he 
thinks VWFS should agree to defer them and that it should pay him £530 by way of 
compensation.
In a provisional decision, I said that I thought it likely that VWFS had not sent the direct debit 
instruction to Mr Hs bank. The bank had no record of it until early November 2020. I thought 
that was consistent with it not receiving the instruction; it was not consistent with a direct 
debit instruction having been set up and then cancelled. 
I went on to consider what might have happened if the direct debit had been set up as it 
should have been. It appeared that the September 2020 payment would have been taken 
successfully, since the account would have remained within the overdraft limit at that time. 
The October 2020 payment, however, would have taken the account beyond its overdraft 
limit. I thought it likely therefore that, if the direct debit instruction had been set up correctly, 
only one payment would have been missed. It was possible that money would have been 
transferred into the account and that no payments would have been missed. 
I noted however that the missing payments had not been made, even after Mr H found out 
what had happened. I did not think it was unreasonable in those circumstances that VWFS 
had recorded adverse credit information against Mr Hs name. I recommended that VWFS 
pay Mr H £150  to compensate him for the inconvenience resulting from its failure to send 
the direct debit instruction to his bank until November 2020. 
Neither Mr H nor VWFS accepted my provisional decision. Mr H said that he had been 
unable to make the missing payments in one payment  although he was now in a position 
to do so. He said that his inability to pay had been the result of VWFSs actions. VWFS said 
that it did not think its evidence had been taken into consideration. It said too that the 
evidence showed that the direct debit instruction had been cancelled.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that VWFS attempted to take the payments, using the account details Mr H had 
provided. It is clear that those attempts were not successful because the bank did not hold a 
valid direct debit mandate. VWFS says it had been cancelled. That is not however what the 
bank says; it says there was no instruction until November 2020, not that an instruction had 
been cancelled. 
I accept that there is no way of knowing exactly what happened but, having considered all 
the evidence carefully  including, of course, that provided by VWFS  I think it more likely 
that it did not send the direct debit instruction to Mr Hs bank. Mr H should receive some 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
I note what Mr H has said about his ability to make payments once the problem came to 
light. That is not however a reason to remove information from his credit file. That 
information  that he has missed two payments  is accurate. And the fact that he has not 
made the missing payments, even though he says he can, reinforces my view that the 
information should remain.  
My final decision
For these reasons, I have not changed my view from that set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Hs complaint, Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited should pay him £150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman