DRN-4499879
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with 
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline). 
When I refer to what Mr H and Startline said or did, it should also be taken to include things 
said or done on their behalf.
What happened
In July 2022, Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement with Startline to acquire a used 
car first registered in January 2017. At the time Mr H acquired the car it had travelled 
approximately 27,460 miles. The total cash price of the car was approximately £11,185. 
There was a deposit of £3,700. The total amount payable under the finance agreement was 
approximately £16,641. The first repayment was around £216 followed by 58 monthly 
repayments of about £216 and a final repayment was approximately £226.
Mr H said that, at the time of purchase, there was a receipt from a garage which showed low 
engine pressure issues in December 2021. He said that the supplying dealer assured him 
these issues had been rectified. But, within a week of owning the car, Mr H said that the 
engine management light appeared on the dashboard. So, he raised this with the supplying 
dealership and with Startline, who asked him to get a diagnostic done. Mr H provided a 
diagnostic that showed multiple codes.
Mr H said that the supplying dealer told him to get these issues fixed through the warranty 
company. But Mr H said that the warranty company provided a report that these were old 
issues and that the car had no faults when he raised this with them. Mr H said that in 
December 2022 the engine light came back on again and again and the supplying 
dealership told him to contact the warranty company, who in turn again said that the issues 
were previous and that there was nothing wrong with the car. Mr H said that again in 
February 2023, the engine management light showed up on the dashboard, this time with a 
low oil pressure warning and engine power reduced warning and the car went into limp 
mode and became undrivable. Startline told Mr H to provide a diagnostic. This report 
showed multiple error codes again, notably an error code for the oil sensor, the pistons, and 
the oil solenoid. 
Startline wrote to Mr H in March 2023. In this correspondence they said that they are not 
upholding his complaint. They said that an independent inspection which was instructed by 
them in February 2023, determined the current engine damage had been induced by driver 
error caused due to the car having been run with insufficient oil in the sump.
Mr H told Startline that the engineer told him that the issues were almost certainly there at 
point of sale, so in May 2023 Startline issued another response on Mr Hs complaint. They 
said that, as Mr H challenged the claim from the previous inspection, the supplying 
dealership commissioned another independent inspection. In this correspondence Startline 
again said that they are not upholding Mr Hs complaint because this second report 
concluded that the car had been in service for approximately six months to the reported fail 
date and had covered approximately 10,000 miles. As such, they would not consider the 
reported faults with the car to have been present or developing at the point of inception.
Mr H was unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator at our service was of the opinion that the car was not of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. The investigator thought that a reasonable person would expect the piston 
rings in an engine to last longer than they did. So, he thought that Startline should repair the 
faults if these can be completed in a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience 
to Mr H. If this isnt possible, the investigator thought, that Mr H should be able to reject the 
car. He also thought that Startline should refund any repayments form 6 February 2023 until 
the date the car is returned to Mr H, and they should refund him the £171.98 he paid to 
arrange the diagnostics. 
Startline disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 22 November 2023. In the 
provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Mr H acquired the car under a hire 
purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer credit agreement. Our service can look 
at these sorts of agreements. Startline is the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement and is responsible for dealing with complaints about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements such as the one Mr H entered 
into. Under this agreement, there is an implied term that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into 
account the description of the goods, the price paid, and other relevant circumstances. I 
think in this case those relevant circumstances include, but are not limited to, the age and 
mileage of the car and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
In Mr Hs case the car was used, with a total cash price of approximately £11,185. It had 
covered around 27,460 miles and was around five years old when he acquired it. So, Id 
have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new car. As with any car, theres an 
expectation that there will be ongoing maintenance and upkeep costs. There are parts that 
will naturally wear over time and its reasonable to expect that these may need to be 
replaced. And with second-hand cars, its more likely that parts will need to be replaced 
sooner or be worn faster than with a brand-new car. So, Startline would not generally be 
responsible for anything that was due to normal wear and tear whilst the car was in Mr Hs 
possession. But given the age, mileage and price paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person wouldnt expect anything significant to be wrong shortly after it was 
acquired.
The independent report, which was carried out in February 2023, indicates that there are 
faults with the car. The report indicated that the cars ECU was scanned and the following 
fault codes were present:
P0011 Intake camshaft position system performance.
P016 Crankshaft posiaion not plausable.
P0300 Enginemissfire detected.
P06DE Engine oil pressure valve stuck on.
The report also said that, when the engine was started, a rattling noise was present initially, 
then the engine started misfiring and the "engine power reduced" message appeared on the 
dashboard. Also, there is no dispute between the two parties that there are faults present 
with the car, so Ive gone on to consider if the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
Startline believes that the faults the car was experiencing were not developing at the point of 
sale or finance inception. They are basing their opinion on the two independent reports that 
were commissioned. 
The second report, which was commissioned in May 2023, said that the car had been in 
service for approximately six months to the reported fail date and had covered approximately 
10,000 miles. So based on this, it concluded that faults with the car werent present or 
developing at the point of sale. But the engineer conducting this report wasnt able to turn on 
the car and do a full inspection, as the cars electrics were totally discharged. So Ive taken 
this into consideration but Ive also looked at the first report which was carried out on 22 
February 2023. This report concluded that Mr H has ran the car with insufficient oil in the 
sump, so he should be responsible for the repair costs. The engineer who wrote this report 
indicated that hed added one litre of engine oil which resulted in the oil level showing on the 
minimum on the dip stick, leading them to conclude that the car has been ran with 
insufficient oil in the sump to maintain proper oil pressure. 
Ive taken the above into consideration, but I can see that the car had an oil service in 
October 2022. At the time the car had travelled around 30,498 miles. This type of car holds 
approximately four litres of oil, so I think this wouldve been the amount that was most likely 
added as part of the service at the time. And I think that, based on the cars normal oil 
consumption, and taking into consideration its age and mileage, I think its most likely it 
shouldnt have used up most of that oil in about 4 months and after having travelled around 
7,000 miles in total. So, I think its most likely there were other issues with the car that 
caused so much oil to be used.
The job card from December 2021, which Mr H received as part of the cars maintenance 
record, shows that there was an engine code  engine misfire  and the compression 
diagnostic showed that the compression in one of the cylinders was over 50% down. This 
was about seven months before Mr H acquired the car and at the time the car had travelled 
27,125 miles. The job card also indicates that the spark plugs were replaced, but that the car 
needed to have top grade fuel added and to be taken for a good long run to see if the low 
compression improves. The job card also said that if things dont improve, then further 
investigation will be required. Since this job card, the car had only travelled about 335 miles 
before Mr H took possession of it, and it is unknow if any further repairs were carried out to 
the head gasket or the pistons. I understand that typically, a failed head gasket or worn 
piston rings are the main cause of a loss of compression. The December 2021 job card 
states that the oil level was low and that there was a leak from the rocker cover. There's no 
indication that the engine had or was overheating which is a typical reason for head gasket failure. And the independent report carried out in February 2023 indicated that there was 
seepage noted, so most likely the gasket was not replaced since the December 2021 job 
card. 
The job card doesn't state if the oil was topped up, but it's likely the oil was topped up prior to 
sale, as checking the levels is common when inspecting a new purchase. I understand that 
piston rings seal the piston and the cylinder to aid with compression and typically fail due to 
poor lubrication or normal wear and tear but are unlikely to fail on a car that has only 
travelled about 30,000 miles. And, whilst there are gaps for the rings to expand (metal 
expands when heated), this is extremely minimal and most likely wouldnt cause a 50% 
compression loss. Most engines burn oil when in use, which is why all manufacturers 
recommend checking the oil level regularly but if the piston rings aren't able to sufficiently 
seal the cylinder, the oil can make its way through them and be burnt in the cylinder, rapidly 
increasing oil consumption. 
The oil was changed at 30,498 miles and found to be below the minimum at 37,468 miles 
during the independent inspection. And, like I mentioned before, I think its most likely that 
the car shouldnt have used up most of that oil in about 4 months and having travelled 
around 7,000 miles in total. And, based on the December 2021 job card, I think the piston 
rings in one of the cylinders, most likely, already have had excessive wear due to the loss of 
compression evidenced. I know the independent report from February 2023 indicated that 
the compression loss was minimal when looking at the job card from December 2021, but I 
wouldnt consider more than 50% to be minimal. Overall, most likely, the car had a fault to do 
with the piston rings, which most likely made the compression gradually worse, likely to a 
point where it caused the engine to misfire. Or where it's lowered the oil level causing the 
engine to be insufficiently lubricated, in turn causing the timing to jump. But neither of these 
faults would be expected on a car that has travelled less than 40,000 miles. I think most 
likely a reasonable person wouldnt considered the car to experience such significant issues 
with the engine on a car that is approximately five years old and has travelled less than 
40,000 miles. So, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
The CRA sets out that Mr H has a short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days if 
the car is of unsatisfactory quality, however, he would need to ask for rejection within that 
time. I can see that on 11 August 2022, within 30 days of acquiring the car, Mr H emailed in 
and said: the engine management light came on. Then, the check service esc warning 
came on. I contacted the garage who told me to give the car a good long run and it should 
be fine, but to also check with [the manufacturer] if I was worried. The problem continued. 
Ive taken this to [the manufacturer] who have confirmed that this is a common issue with 
this model [of car] which requires an engine rebuild. Obviously Im within my 14 day period 
and would like to exercise my right to return the car. As my broker, can you please arrange 
with the garage to collect the car from me and for a refund to be made. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr H has asked to reject the car within the required time. But Ive also considered that the 
supplying dealer told Mr H to get these issues fixed through the warranty company. But Mr H 
said that the warranty company provided a report that these were old issues and that the car 
had no faults when he raised this with them. Mr H said that in December 2022 the engine 
light came back on again, and again the supplying dealership told him to contact the 
warranty company, who in turn again said that the issues were previous and that there was 
nothing wrong with the car. Hence, it could also be argued that Mr H exercised an attempt at 
repair and the faults werent fixed. So, Ive considered that Startline has been allowed 
sufficient time to resolve the fault with the car, and I think now the most fair and reasonable 
option is for Mr H to be allowed to reject the car.
As such, the hire purchase agreement should be cancelled with nothing further to pay. 
Startline should remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file. The credit agreement should be marked as settled in full on his credit file, or something similar, and 
should not show as voluntary termination.
As the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, Mr H has not used it since February 2023. So I think 
Startline should refund all payments he has made from this date to the date of settlement. Mr 
H has also paid £171.98 to have the diagnostics carried out due to being supplied with a car 
that wasnt of satisfactory quality, so I think these costs should also be refunded to him. 
Startline should also refund him the amount it will cost Mr H to have his private plate 
transferred to another car, as he wouldnt have needed to incur this cost, had they provided 
him with a car that was of satisfactory quality. 
The car wasnt of satisfactory quality since February 2023 so, when the MOT on the car 
expired, Mr H had the car SORN which I dont think is unreasonable as he couldnt use the 
car. Since the car was SORN, Mr H had to pay for storage of the car as he had no off-road 
place to store it. So, I think that it is fair and reasonable that Startline should refund all 
payments Mr H made for storage of the car, on production of a valid receipts or invoices as 
he wouldnt have needed to incur these cost, had they provided him with a car that was of 
satisfactory quality.    
Ive considered that this matter has caused Mr H distress and inconvenience while trying to 
resolve it. Mr H had to take the car for diagnostics, as well as make time for the two 
inspections that were carried out on the car. Which, I think, he wouldnt have had to do had 
Startline supplied him with a car that was of a satisfactory quality. So, I think Startline should 
pay him £200 in compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr H said that he purchased new tyres, paid for services and oil changes. So Ive considered 
these costs, but as he has had use of the car and done about 10,000 miles, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to ask Startline to refund him these cost. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct STARTLINE 
MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED to:
1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay; 
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr H; 
3. Refund the hire purchase payments he has made from February 2023 to date of 
settlement;
4. Refund to Mr H the deposit he made of £3,700;
5. Refund to Mr H the £171.98 he paid for diagnostics to be carried out and refund 
Mr H the amount it will cost him to have his private plate transferred to another 
car;
6. Refund all payments Mr H made for storage of the car, on production of a valid 
receipts or invoices;
7. Add 8% simple interest per year to all refunded amounts, from the date of
each payment to the date of settlement;
8. Pay Mr H £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused;
9. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation
to this credit agreement, and the credit agreement should be marked as settled in 
full on his credit file, or something similar, and should not show as voluntary 
termination.
If STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED considers tax should be deducted from the 
interest element of my award, they should provide Mr H with a certificate showing how much 
they have taken off so he can reclaim that amount, if he is eligible to do so.I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 6 December 2023.
Startline responded to confirm they received my provisional decision but they didnt provide 
any further comments.
Mr H responded and said he had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and considering neither Mr H nor Startline had any further comments to 
make I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to what I reached in my provisional 
decision (copied above).
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision I uphold this complaint and 
direct STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED to:
1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay; 
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr H; 
3. Refund the hire purchase payments he has made from February 2023 to date of 
settlement;
4. Refund to Mr H the deposit he made of £3,700;
5. Refund to Mr H the £171.98 he paid for diagnostics to be carried out and refund 
Mr H the amount it will cost him to have his private plate transferred to another 
car;
6. Refund all payments Mr H made for storage of the car, on production of a valid 
receipts or invoices;
7. Add 8% simple interest per year to all refunded amounts, from the date of
each payment to the date of settlement;
8. Pay Mr H £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused;
9. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation
to this credit agreement, and the credit agreement should be marked as settled in 
full on his credit file, or something similar, and should not show as voluntary 
termination.
If STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED considers tax should be deducted from the 
interest element of my award, they should provide Mr H with a certificate showing how much 
they have taken off so he can reclaim that amount, if he is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman