DRN-2461111
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance, (PPI), policies.
Its been agreed that AXA should accept responsibility for the sale. For simplicity Ive 
referred to AXA throughout my decision.
 
What happened
Mrs S took out a store card in 1994 in a store. At the same time she took out PPI. She took 
out another PPI policy over the phone in 2002.
Because of the time that has passed AXA doesnt have a copy of the actual policy terms 
that applied to Mrs Ss card. So Ive had to base my decision on the policy terms of the 
same insurers that were in use for store cards either side of the times of the sales, which I 
think are likely to have been similar.
Our adjudicator thought that AXA hadnt made it clear enough to Mrs S that the policies 
didnt cover accident and sickness claims if they resulted from a health problem she already 
had when she bought the policies. And he thought that if it had done so, Mrs S wouldnt 
have bought the PPI.
AXA said that its view was that Mrs S health problem is usually a manageable condition 
which would not affect her lifestyle and would be treated with medication. It went on to say 
that there is nothing to suggest the severity of the condition and the effect it had on the 
customers ability to work at the point of sale or after. It did not believe that this problem 
alone was sufficient for the policies to be unsuitable and it is unlikely that the customer 
would have needed to claim for this condition. And the customer would have thought at the 
time that it was unlikely that they would have needed to claim for this condition. AXA also 
pointed out that Mrs S would have been able to claim for any other condition that did cause 
her to take a sufficient period of time off work.
As AXA disagreed with our adjudicator the matter came to me to decide. And before I 
drafted a provisional decision this service obtained further information from Mrs S about her 
health problem and its effect on her lifestyle. Following receipt of this, on 23 November 2020 
I provisionally decided to uphold Mrs S complaint. 
As neither party has sent us any further information following their receipt of my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to vary it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint because I dont think that AXA gave Mrs S clear 
enough information about the policies. I say this because the policy terms, which I find its 
reasonable to think applied, broadly speaking, didnt cover any sickness or disease which 
she knew about or had treatment for or advice about from any doctor in the 12 months 
before cover started. I think this would have mattered to Mrs S because she had a medical 
condition which started before she took the first PPI, (the condition), which wouldnt have 
been covered. So she couldnt have claimed on the policies for everything which, I think its 
likely, she would have expected to be covered.
I agree with AXA that the condition may in some circumstances be treatable with 
medication and not affect the sufferers ability to work. Therefore not necessarily making it 
sufficient for a policy excluding it, unsuitable. However, Mrs S has told us that she left 
work in 1996 because of the condition, and at that point retired. So I think its more likely 
than not that, at the time of the first sale, she was already experiencing material symptoms 
from the condition. And I find its reasonable to conclude that she would have thought it 
likely that she might have to claim against the PPI because of it. And I dont think the fact 
that she might have been able to claim for being unable to work because of other reasons 
would have been sufficient for Mrs S to take the policies when the condition was excluded. 
So I think that, had AXA given her clear information about the PPI terms and conditions, 
she wouldnt have taken it.
To be eligible for the PPI, the terms that I think its likely applied to Mrs S, required her to 
be in employment. So I would also point out, that from what Mrs S has now told us, she 
wasnt eligible for the second policy in any event, because she had retired. So it was of no 
use to her.
This means that Mrs S has lost out because of what AXA did wrong in the case of both the 
policies.
Putting things right
AXA needs to put Mrs S into the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
the PPI. This means:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs S would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policies hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs S owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policies, AXA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.B.AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when AXA works out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs S paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs S would have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year from then on. 
D. AXA should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above my decision is to uphold Mrs S complaint. And I order 
AXA France IARD to pay Mrs S compensation in accordance with the calculation that Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman