DRN-4332959
Complaint
Mr V has complained about high-cost short-term credit instalment loans he took out with 
Stagemount Limited (trading as Quidmarket). 
He says Quidmarket lent to him at a time when he was already in severe debt with other 
loans, credit cards and way behind on his priority bills.
Background
Quidmarket provided Mr V with a total of five high-cost short-term credit instalment loans. 
The first of them was taken in October 2020 was for £400 and was due to be repaid in 3 
instalments. Mr V withdrew from this loan within the cooling off period, nonetheless he did 
pay £6.40 in interest. The second of the loans was taken in December 2000 was for £600 
and was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments. The third loan was taken in September 
2021, was for £1,500.00 and was due to be repaid in 12 instalments.
The fourth loan was taken in November 2021 and was also for £1,500.00. This was due to 
be repaid in twelve instalments. Mr V also withdrew from this loan within the cooling off 
period nonetheless he paid £36.00 in interest. And the last of loans was provided by 
Quidmarket in January 2022 and was for £500. It was due to be repaid in five monthly 
instalments. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr V and Quidmarket had told us. And she thought 
that Quidmarket hadnt treated Mr V unfairly for loans one and two, but that it had done for 
loans three to five. So she partially upheld the complaint. 
Quidmarket disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about short term lending on our website. And 
Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Vs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding Mr Vs
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr V was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Quidmarket
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
that Quidmarket needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr V before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Quidmarket says it agreed to Mr Vs applications after hed provided details of his
monthly income and expenditure. It says the information Mr V provided on his income and
expenditure showed that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was
committing to. And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand,        
Mr V says that the loans were unaffordable. 
Loans one and two
Ive carefully thought about what Mr V and Quidmarket have said. The first thing for me
to say is that these loans were Mr Vs first loans with Quidmarket and they were both repaid 
early. Indeed the total period of time Mr V was indebted to Quidmarket for was just over six 
months. So Mr V was only indebted to Quidmarket for a short period. And I dont think that 
there was any established pattern in Mr Vs borrowing needs at this stage.
The information provided does suggest that Mr V was asked to provide details of his income
and expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions
Quidmarket asked Mr V and these were Mr Vs first loans, I dont think it was
unreasonable for Quidmarket to rely on the information Mr V was providing.
I accept that Mr Vs actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the
information he provided, or the other information Quidmarket obtained. And Im sorry to
hear that Mr V was struggling financially and that he found it difficult to repay his loans. But 
Quidmarket could only make its decisions based on the information it had available at the 
time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve extended into Quidmarket asking Mr V to evidence what he was declaring.
Equally it's only really fair for me to uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did
something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Quidmarket did anything wrong in
deciding to lend to Mr V - it carried out reasonable checks even though its looks like the
information it mightve been provided with was inaccurate.
Quidmarket reasonably relied on the information provided with and given the amount of
the repayments involved and the overall circumstances of Mr Vs loan history, I dont think it
was unreasonable for Quidmarket to lend  especially as there wasnt anything obvious,
in the information it had, to suggest Mr V wouldnt be able to sustainably repay these loans.
  
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that the checks Quidmarket 
carried out were unreasonable in this instance. And Im therefore not upholding Mr Vs 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr V. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
Loans three to five
I think that its more important to focus on the information that Quidmarket did have rather 
than what it needed to obtain for its checks to have been proportionate here. And, in my 
view, Quidmarket had enough information to reasonably have seen that Mr V was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a sustainable manner when it provided this loan to 
him. 
I say this because what was present in the information Quidmarket itself obtained  the bank 
statements - showed that Mr V was receiving around the same amount of money that he 
declared around that time. However, Mr V was transferring large sums of money to another 
account in his name.  
This not only called into question the rest of the income and expenditure Quidmarket 
obtained but in itself suggested that Mr V was already struggling to make ends meet  
particularly as the statements also clearly show that Mr V was making repayments to a large 
number of other high-cost lenders and he was borrowing from multiple friends and family in 
order to meet his commitments. 
Furthermore, if Quidmarket had attempted to obtain the statements for the account Mr V was 
transferring money to, it would have seen the extent of his gambling. And most importantly, it 
would have seen that Mr Vs ability to repay was dependant on his success his gambler. 
Quidmarket might argue that Mr V was successful and that is why he was able to repay his 
loans early. 
Mr V was only able to repay his loans early because he was borrowing from other high-cost 
lenders. And this simply wasnt sustainable or meant that Mr V could borrow without 
experiencing adverse consequences, which Quidmarket should have seen when it 
requested the statements from Mr V.
Quidmarket says its checks for these loans were proportionate. I dont disagree with this 
here as it obtained bank statements and I cant reasonably have expected it to do more than 
this. But Quidmarket still had to make a fair lending decision. And I think it chose to ignore 
clear evidence of Mr Vs likely inability to sustainably make his repayments and as a result it 
made an unfair lending decision. 
As Quidmarket chose to obtain bank statement information at the time of loan three I cannot 
reasonably conclude that it wouldnt have seen similar information had it, as I think it should 
have done bearing in mind the circumstances by this stage, requested such information from 
Mr V at the times of loan four and five. Mr V was in a similar financial position at the time of 
these applications. So I dont see why the respective decisions provide loans four and five 
were fair and reasonable given the circumstances at the time.  
Mr V had to pay interest and charges on loans that Quidmarket shouldnt have provided him 
with. So I think that he lost out and Quidmarket should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Quidmarket needs to do to put things right for Mr V
Having thought about everything, Quidmarket should put things right for Mr V by:
refunding any interest, fees and charges that Mr V paid on loans three to five;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr V to the date of settlement;
all adverse information Quidmarket recorded about loans three and five should be 
removed from Mr Vs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to take off tax from this interest. Quidmarket 
must give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im partially upholding Mr Vs complaint. Stagemount Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman