DRN-3829378
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society lent irresponsibly when providing him with 
three loans. 
This complaint doesnt include other lending decisions made by Nationwide, at least one of 
which I gather Mr Ps complained about to us separately.
What happened
In April 2013 Nationwide loaned Mr P £3,500 over 12 months. Based on the information its 
provided, the interest rate on the loan was an annual percentage rate (APR) of 14.9%. The 
total charge for the credit was around £200, which meant the total amount repayable by Mr P 
for the £3,500 he was borrowing was around £3,700. The monthly repayments were 
£308.34. The information Nationwide recorded at the time of his application showed he had 
a net monthly income of £1,050. 
In July 2013, Mr P applied for a second loan over 24 months, and which included 
consolidation of the first loan. Mr P borrowed £6,484 with an APR of 7.3%. The monthly 
repayments were £290.52, meaning hed pay a total of around £6,972  around £488 of 
which was interest. His income was recorded by Nationwide as unchanged from the 
previous application.
In September 2013, Mr P applied for a third loan over 36 months, and which included 
consolidation of the second loan. This time, Mr P borrowed around £14,258 with an APR of 
9.8%. The monthly repayments were £455.98, meaning he needed to pay a total of around 
£16,415  around £2,156 of which was interest. His income was recorded by Nationwide as 
£1,200. 
In 2019, Mr P complained to Nationwide that it had lent irresponsibly to him and had made 
his existing debt problems worse. 
Nationwide responded to say that it wasnt upholding Mr Ps complaint. Nationwide said 
each loan application was reviewed against its lending criteria and information provided by 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) and accepted based on the information provided.
Unhappy with Nationwides response about the loans, Mr P complained to us. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. The 
investigator thought that Nationwide hadnt carried out the checks it should have done prior 
to making the decisions. They felt that, if Nationwide had, it would have discovered that Mr P 
was in a cycle of debt and was in financial difficulty such that it wasnt appropriate to offer 
the lending to him. The investigator asked Nationwide to put things right for him by refunding 
all interest and charges hed paid on the loans and reducing any amount outstanding by the 
amount of the refund. If that left a positive balance, the excess was to be returned to Mr P 
with interest at 8%.   
Nationwide didnt respond substantively to the investigators assessment, despite reminders 
and extensions being granted. So, the complaint was referred to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Nationwide treated Mr P 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the loans. These include:
1) Did Nationwide complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr P would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at these times? 
3) Ultimately, did Nationwide make fair lending decisions?  
4) Did Nationwide act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Nationwide complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
The rules that Nationwide had to follow required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess whether Mr P could afford to repay the loans being offered. This is often 
referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks Nationwide needed to carry out, but they did set 
out that those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I 
think what this meant in practice was that the scope and extent of Nationwides checks 
needed to reflect the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of 
credit, the interest rate, the duration of the loan, the monthly and total amounts repayable, 
and any indications of customer vulnerability.  
The checks Nationwide needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the loans back would cause Mr P any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for him. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the term of the loan and the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the 
interest rate being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And, as a result of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be 
more thorough if Mr P was on a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult 
for him to meet the monthly repayments on such an income. 
Nationwide would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts he had to repay, 
as it would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on his income. 
With these principles in mind, Ive thought about whether Nationwide completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P would be able to repay the loans in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the loan applications are as follows:Mr P applied for the first loan which had an APR of 14.9%.
Mr P was recorded by Nationwide as having a net monthly income of £1,050 rising to 
£1,200 later in 2013.
By the time of the third loan application, the amount of borrowing had risen from £3,500 
to more than £14,000. The term of the loans had increased from 12 months initially to 36 
months. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available about the loans but especially 
regarding the first loan. Nationwide holds more information about the second and third loans. 
It seems Nationwide did request some information in relation to the loans. This included 
asking Mr P for details of his monthly income. Nationwide also obtained information from a 
CRA to gauge his expenditure and to assess how he was managing his existing credit. 
The CRA checks revealed that Mr P wasnt in arrears or subject to any arrangements or 
county court judgments (CCJs). It indicated to Nationwide that he wasnt experiencing over-
indebtedness in terms of total levels of unsecured debt.
But I think Mr Ps level of disposable income when compared with the amount hed have to 
pay for the loans ought to have given Nationwide cause for some concern in the 
circumstances. I say that because the repayments for the first loan represented nearly 70% 
of his estimated disposable income. That figure rose to around 75% for the second and third 
loans. Thats a considerable proportion and left Mr P with little room for manoeuvre 
financially.
Im also mindful that the second and third loans were for debt consolidation and the terms of 
the loans were increasing greatly in a short space of time. This meant Mr P would owe 
Nationwide more money and over a longer period. 
So, there was at least some cause for concern that I think should have prompted Nationwide 
to look more closely at Mr Ps financial situation before deciding whether to provide the 
loans. Nationwide doesnt appear to have carried out borrower focussed checks as Id have 
expected it to, given the situation Mr P was in at the time of the borrowing. And, as a result, 
checks should have been carried out to ensure hed be able to sustainably repay the loans.   
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at these times?
I gather Mr P was primarily using one bank account  held with Nationwide  when he 
applied for the loans. I believe it would have been reasonable and proportionate for 
Nationwide to have requested/reviewed copy statements of the account to help better 
determine how he was managing his finances before making its decisions. 
On reviewing Mr Ps account statements from 2013, I think sight of them would have brought 
to light clear indicators that he was struggling financially. For example, his statements from 
February 2013 onwards consistently show dealings with multiple payday lenders and 
payments to gambling firms. His account was regularly overdrawn throughout this period, 
and he incurred unauthorised overdraft fees and interest charges on several occasions. So, 
it seemed Mr P was struggling to manage his day-to-day finances even before he took out 
loans with Nationwide for ever increasing amounts. 
Did Nationwide make fair lending decisions?  I think it ought to have been a concern to Nationwide that, based on the information provided 
to it, the loans left Mr P with so little remaining of his disposable monthly income. In the 
space of around five months, Mr P consolidated the initial loan twice which I think in itself 
was an indication that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
In addition to the information Nationwide held, theres the information I believe Nationwide 
ought to have obtained in carrying out the relevant borrower focussed affordability checks. 
This information showed a reliance on payday loans and difficulty in Mr P managing to 
balance his income and expenditure on a day-to-day basis.  
The information indicates to me that Mr P was struggling financially before April 2013 and 
continued to do so after that point. I also think based on the information Nationwide did have 
about Mr P that it should have concluded that it was unlikely hed be able to sustainably 
afford to make the monthly payments for the new loans. And if it had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks, for example by reviewing his bank statements, then the 
information Ive summarised above should have reinforced the conclusion it should have 
reached on the information it did have; that the loans were unlikely to be sustainably 
affordable for him.
So, based on the information Nationwide had and ought to have obtained about Mr P, Im 
not satisfied that it could have reasonably concluded that hed be able to sustainably afford 
to make the monthly payments for the loans. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think that, in the circumstances of Mr Ps case, 
Nationwide should have realised it was unlikely hed have been able to repay the loans, and 
that it wasnt appropriate to lend to him.
Did Nationwide act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P in some other way? 
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P in some other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr P to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But hes paid interest and charges on three loans 
that shouldnt have been provided to him. So, I think Mr Ps lost out and that Nationwide 
should put things right for him. Nationwide should: 
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans from the outset. Any 
payments made by Mr P should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If 
the payments Mr Ps made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him with 8% simple 
annual interest calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were paid 
by Mr P, to the date the complaints settled. 
b) If theres still an outstanding balance on the third loan, then Nationwide should agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr P, bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions, and take account of his current 
ability to repay the loan.
c) Remove any relevant adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of 
the lending.  HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Nationwide Building 
Society to put things right for Mr P as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman