DRN-4372409
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that I Go 4 Ltd (IG4) renewed their policy and took a full annual 
premium without authorisation, resulting in financial difficulty and debt chasers, under their 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Js policy renewed on 15 October 2022. IG4 collected the annual premium for 
£577.03 on 13 October. They didnt want to renew and contacted the business for a refund. 
This was processed on 14 October 2022. Mr and Mrs J were told it would take 3 to 5 days 
for the funds to be returned. 
Mr Js bank account was overdrawn as a result of IG4 collecting the premium. They 
contacted the bank and it arranged for a charge back. The funds were placed back in Mr Js 
account. The refund provided by IG4 was then received in Mr Js bank account on 17 
October 2022. 
Since this time Mr and Mrs J say IG4 has pursued them for a debt they dont owe. They say 
the bank took back the charge back payment on 10 November 2022. This means they didnt 
owe any money to IG4. They both suffer with anxiety and found the ongoing demands for 
payment very stressful. 
In its final complaint response in December 2022, IG4 says Mr and Mrs J were sent renewal 
information in September. This confirmed the policy would renew and the premium would be 
collected unless they instructed otherwise. When it was contacted by Mr and Mrs J on 14 
October it processed a refund of the premium. It says it was subsequently made aware on 
25 October that their bank had also processed a charge back. 
IG4 says this meant it had provided two refunds. One direct to Mr and Mrs J and one to their 
bank. It requested the over payment back from Mr and Mrs J. It says they disputed this, and 
it placed the matter on hold. However, the debt was owing and so it continued to request 
payment. IG4 says that following on from its complaint response it received a payment from 
Mr Js bank for £577.03 on 7 February 2023. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt think they had been paid twice and didnt think IG4 shouldve chased 
them for this payment. Because of this they referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He says IG4 renewed the policy in line with its 
policy terms. And it provided a refund in a timely manner when Mr and Mrs J made contact. 
He says the evidence shows IG4 effectively paid Mr and Mrs J twice due to the charge back 
they had requested. 
Our investigator says IG4 ceased its debt collection activity on 7 February 2023 once it had 
been provided with the payment for £577.03 from Mr Js bank. He thought this was fair. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider their complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Im sorry to disappoint them but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair.  
Ive read the renewal notice IG4 sent to Mr and Mrs J via email on 22 September 2022. This 
says their policy is due to renew on 15 October. The letter says that unless they hear 
otherwise the policy will automatically renew based on the premium advised. A link was 
provided for Mr and Mrs J to cancel the renewal online, if this is what they wanted. 
On the second page of the renewal letter, it says:
If you decide to renew your policy with [IG4] and have no changes to make, you won't need 
to do anything as your policy will automatically renew on 15 October 2022. We'll set up your 
new policy and take payment up to two days before your renewal date, in order to ensure 
you have continuous insurance cover in place. 
I think this letter is clear. The impact of not having insurance in place can be significant so 
we expect an insurer to make it clear to a customer when cover will end and the options 
available. IG4s letter explains that the policy will automatically renew unless Mr and Mrs J 
contact it to confirm otherwise. It also explains that it will collect the premium up to two days 
before the renewal date. This is what IG4 did when it collected the premium on 13 October 
2022. 
Based on this evidence I cant see that IG4 did anything wrong. 
When Mr and Mrs J contacted IG4 to request a refund this was processed the same day. I 
think this was fair. I acknowledge their reasons for instigating a charge back via their bank. 
In taking the full premium IG4 caused Mr Js account to go overdrawn. I note what they say 
about the bank recovering the charge back funds on 10 November 2022. But this wasnt 
refunded to IG4 until 7 February 2023.
Ive thought carefully about what this means. IG4 refunded £577.03 to Mr Js bank account 
on 14 October 2022. His bank then claimed £577.03 from IG4 using the charge back 
process. So IG4 issued two refunds when only one was required. It didnt receive a payment 
to offset the second refund until February the following year. 
I note Mr and Mrs Js view that they didnt have IG4s money, so felt it was unfair that it 
continued to pursue them for this. I can understand that this was confusing and upsetting for 
them. But ultimately it was they who instructed the bank to claim the money back from IG4. 
IG4 didnt receive a refund of this amount from Mr and Mrs J when it was requested. So, I 
dont think it behaved unreasonably when continuing to request this amount. 
Its not clear why it took until 7 February 2023 for Mr Js bank to pay the money to IG4. But I 
dont think this was their insurers fault. Its provided a screen shot to show the date it 
refunded Mr and Mrs Js premium. This also shows the date the bank refunded the £577.03 
that was owing. So, based on this evidence I dont think IG4 treated them unfairly here. 
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Js comments that IG4 instructed a debt collector after it had 
received payment from Mr Js bank in February 2023. They refer to several contacts they received from the debt collector and that this required further discussion to try and resolve. 
Im sorry that they found this distressing.  
I asked IG4 to comment on this point. I also asked if it would agree to our service 
considering this issue as this wasnt part of the complaint Mr and Mrs J had raised. IG4s 
final complaint response was sent in December 2022. Under the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) dispute resolution or DISP rules we cant consider a complaint unless its been raised 
with the business first.  
IG4 didnt provide authority for us to consider this issue. So, I cant comment on it in my 
decision here. However, Mr and Mrs J can contact IG4 to complain. If they arent satisfied 
with its response they have the option to refer the matter to our service. 
In summary, although Im sorry for the distress Mr and Mrs J have experienced, I dont think 
IG4 treated them unfairly when requesting payment to refund the additional money they 
were paid. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman