DRN-2624338
The complaint
Mr H, represented by a family member, Mrs G, complains that the car he acquired through a 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr H entered into a finance agreement with Moneybarn in August 2019 to acquire a used 
car. At the time of acquisition, the car was over five years old. There is dispute about the 
mileage, but the sales invoice shows a mileage of 69,000 and the evidence supports it being 
at least this amount.
In February 2020, the car broke down and hasnt been able to be used since. It was 
suggested the issue was caused by the timing chain failing. An independent inspection was 
carried out on the car. Mrs G says this was inconclusive and that the comment that Mr H had 
driven the car for 700 miles with the oil light on wasnt correct. She said Mr H had maintained 
the car well having monthly oil and tyre checks and had bought oil for the car on 8 January 
2020. She provided a report from a breakdown company from two weeks prior to the engine 
failure saying no fault was found. She said there were photographs showing oil all over the 
road when the car broke down. She also said that although Moneybarn said the car had 
been driven 5,000 to 8,000 miles, the mileage on the sales invoice was wrong and should 
have been around 72,700 miles meaning Mr H had only driven 4,200 miles.
Mr H provided a record of services carried out before he acquired the car which showed that 
the services had not taken place on time.
Moneybarn says that the car had driven 69,000 miles when Mr H acquired it and when the 
complaint was raised it was told the mileage was 77,000 suggesting Mr H had been able to 
drive the vehicle for six months and 8,000 miles. It says it arranged for an independent 
inspection report to take place and this said that the suspected cause of the issue with 
Mr Hs car was wear and tear and drive-on damage. The report said that it didnt consider 
the issues were present or developing at purchase and the repairs werent the responsibility 
of the selling agent. It noted Mr Hs comments about the mileage but also that he didnt raise 
this issue within the first six months and that the MOT from November suggested a mileage 
of just over 75,000. Given this, Moneybarn didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H didnt agree with Moneybarns assessment and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. He considered the durability of the car and said 
that if parts failed prematurely this could indicate that there was a problem with the car at the 
point of supply. He said the timing chain had failed and that the manufacturer had said the 
timing chain should last the lifetime of the vehicle but could be reduced if the car wasnt 
properly maintained.
Our investigator noted Moneybarns comments about Mr H driving with the low oil pressure 
light on for 700 miles and that Mr H had disputed this. He didnt think this was the main 
contributing factor to the failure and instead didnt think the part was reasonably durable. He 
was satisfied that Mr H had maintained the car well and noted that before Mr H took 
possession of the car the previous services had been consistently overdue. On the balance 
of probabilities, our investigator thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr H.
Moneybarn didnt accept our investigators view. It reiterated the comments in the 
independent inspection report which said the faults were not considered to have been 
present or developing at purchase and that the fault was related to wear and tear and 
maintenance issues since purchase.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr Hs car was around five years old at acquisition. There was conflicting evidence 
provided about the mileage of Mr Hs car at acquisition and so I assessed the 
complaint based on the mileage at acquisition being around 70,000. Given the age 
and mileage of the car at acquisition I found it reasonable to accept that the car 
would have suffered some wear and tear. I also noted that used cars can experience 
issues shortly after acquisition even if they werent present or developing at 
acquisition.
Mr Hs car failed in February 2020, around six months after acquisition and Mr H had 
been able to drive over 4,200 miles. Given this I found it reasonable that an 
independent inspection took place to establish whether the issue that caused the car 
to fail was due to a fault that was present or developing at the point of supply. 
The independent inspection report confirmed there was a large hole in the sump and 
noted the comments about the loss of oil at break down and the underside of the 
vehicle being contaminated with oil. It suspected the issue was due to the oil pump 
chain. The report attributed the issues with the car to wear and tear and maintenance 
issues since acquisition. It said it suspected drive-on damage as a fault code was 
found engine oil level low and this was registered at 76,304 miles, suggesting the 
car had been driven with this code for 700 miles. 
Given the age and mileage of the car at acquisition and the use Mr H had of the car 
before it failed, I didnt find that I had enough to say that the issue that caused Mr Hs 
car to break down was due to a fault that was present or developing at the point of 
supply.
I considered whether the car was sufficiently durable. There was a comment that the 
timing chain should last the lifetime of the vehicle but if not properly maintained or 
subject to heavy driving it could fail earlier. Mr H provided evidence to show that he 
had looked after the car - carrying out monthly tyre and oil checks - and had topped 
the oil up in January 2020 before the car broke down. He also provided a copy of a 
report from two weeks before the car failed which didnt report any faults. I 
acknowledged Mr Hs comments about how he had looked after the car and his 
comments about the cars previous service history showing that services were 
undertaken late before he acquired the car. However, on balance I didnt think I had 
enough to dispute the findings of the independent inspection report about the fault 
code being registered 700 miles before the issues with Mr Hs car occurred. I 
therefore didnt think I could say that the car wasnt sufficiently durable at acquisition.
Overall I didnt find I had enough evidence to say that Mr Hs car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply and so I didnt think I could uphold this complaint.Mrs G, on behalf of Mr H, provided the following information in response to my provisional 
decision. 
The last service before Mr H took ownership of the car was in June 2018 and the 
next service wasnt due until June 2020 (or 80,025 miles) and so there had been no 
lack of maintenance by Mr H.
The last MOT was carried out in November 2019 and there were no issues or 
advisories about coolant or oil leaks.
On 8 January 2020, the oil light came on and Mr H bought oil and topped up the car 
at that time. On 24 January 2020 the breakdown report showed no warning lights 
were illuminated on the dashboard. No issues were found at that time.
Mrs G said that the inspection report showed the cars oil level being low 700 miles 
before the car failed. She said this was when Mr H bought the oil and topped it up. 
She says the oil pressure light wasnt lit at the time the car failed. 
She said the comment in the inspection report about the coolant tub being empty was 
probably due to the coolant being lost when the engine was damaged when the car 
failed. 
Mrs G said that the lack of maintenance occurred before Mr H acquired the car and 
that while Mr H had the car there was no evidence of oil or coolant leaks. She 
reiterated that she didnt think the car was fit for purpose at the point of supply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Moneybarn can be held 
liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes 
into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person 
would expect taking into account all the circumstances. It includes consideration of the 
general state and condition of the goods, the fitness for purpose and whether the goods are 
sufficiently durable.
In this case the car was registered in June 2014. As I noted in my provisional decision there 
was conflicting evidence about the mileage at the time of acquisition, but it appears to have 
been around 70,000. Given this it would be reasonable to accept that the car would have 
suffered some wear and tear.
I note the comments that have been made about how Mr H maintained the car and I do not 
dispute that he took care of the car by having regular tyre and oil checks. However, for me to 
uphold this complaint I have to be satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
The information initially provided suggested that the issue that caused the damage to Mr Hs 
engine was due to the timing chain. The independent inspection report records the issue as 
being the oil pump drive chain and it says that this was what the garage had suspected had 
caused the issue,Mr H was able to drive the car for six months after acquisition and over 4,200 miles. A MOT 
was carried out in November 2019 which didnt raise any concerns. Therefore, I find it 
reasonable to accept that the car was roadworthy at the point of supply. Had there been a 
fault present at the point of supply with the oil pump chain or timing chain I wouldnt have 
expected Mr H to have been able to drive the mileage he did and as the MOT didnt raise 
any concerns I do not find I have enough to say the car was faulty at the point of supply.
I have considered whether the failure of the oil pump drive chain meant that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable. I have sought further information about the expected life of both oil pump 
drive chains and timing chains and I understand these should have a reasonably long life but 
that the actual life will depend on how the car is maintained. Parts of a car will be subject to 
wear and tear and so I have considered whether the issues Mr Hs car experienced after 
being driven 77,000 meant the car wasnt sufficiently durable.
When acquiring a used car, it is important to assess the service history. In this case Mr H 
has said the service history showed the car was serviced late. I have looked at the service 
history and noted that services did take place but as these were late, it is also possible that 
the car wasnt maintained to the standard required to ensure the full life of its parts. The 
price of a used car will reflect its age, mileage and condition. In this case I do not find I can 
say it would be reasonable to expect no wear and tear on the car at acquisition. Given the 
age and mileage of the car at acquisition and the mileage Mr H was able to drive I find it 
more likely than not that the reason for the cars failure was wear and tear rather than a fault.
Mr H drove the car for six months before the issue arose. I note the comment he has made 
about how he maintained the car I also note the comment made in response to the points 
raised in the inspection report about possible drive on damage. I can see Mr H bought oil in 
early January 2020 and the car failed a month later. Given Mr Hs comments about his 
mileage this would support the oil issue being raised and him then driving around 700 miles. 
However, based on the comments made it doesnt appear that Mr H was aware that there 
was an ongoing issue with the oil after he had topped this up in January. 
However, while I have considered the points that have been raised I still dont find that I have 
enough to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. This is because 
there is no evidence that the car was faulty when supplied and while the part failed this 
appears to be due to wear and tear. Given the mileage of the car and the mileage covered 
by Mr H I do not find I have enough to say the car wasnt sufficiently durable or not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I know this will be a disappointment to Mr H and understand this issue has caused stress 
and upset. I would expect Moneybarn to work with Mr H to ensure that he is provided with 
the options available to him and that the payments towards an outstanding finance are 
managed in a way that is sustainably affordable for Mr H.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman