DRN-3013612
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that National Westminster Bank Plc recorded missed payments on 
their credit files after they took a payment holiday, or deferral, on their mortgage.
What happened
In March 2020, the financial services regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, put in place 
guidance for mortgage lenders to follow to support their customers during the Covid-19 
(coronavirus) pandemic. That guidance included making payment holidays, or deferrals, 
available to borrowers. 
Mr and Mrs P took a payment deferral on their mortgage with NatWest between April and 
June 2020. In early 2021, they were selling their home and looking for a new one. They 
applied for a mortgage with another lender, who turned them down because of their credit 
score. Mr and Mrs P checked their credit files, and found that NatWest had recorded the 
deferred payments in early 2020 as having been missed. They complained.
NatWest accepted it had made a mistake. It said it was sorry, made arrangements for Mr 
and Mrs Ps credit files to be amended, and paid them a total of £200 compensation. Mr and 
Mrs P didnt think that was good enough, saying that theyd had to take their home off the 
market and couldnt buy the property they wanted, because the stamp duty land tax holiday 
had since ended.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that NatWest had done 
enough to put things right. Mr and Mrs P disagreed, so their complaint has come to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that NatWest made a mistake, or that it amended Mr and Mrs Ps credit 
files to remove the missed payments after Mr and Mrs P complained. So the only remaining 
matter for me to decide is whether NatWests apology and payment of £200 compensation 
goes far enough.
Having carefully considered all the circumstances, and while I know this isnt the answer Mr 
and Mrs P were hoping for, I think NatWest has done enough to put things right  and so Im 
not going to require it to take any further steps to settle this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs P have said an application they made for a mortgage with another lender was 
declined because of the wrong information NatWest put on their credit files. As a result, they 
took their house off the market, lost buyers, and were unable to buy the property they 
wanted near a family member. 
Mr and Mrs P have provided details of what the lender said when it turned them down. That 
shows that the lender didnt give them a decision in principle because of their credit score. 
Im satisfied that missed mortgage payments would have had an adverse effect on this 
score. However, a number of other factors would have affected Mr and Mrs Ps credit score 
as well and, importantly, the lender said they could appeal its decision. I find nothing to 
indicate that they did so  as I might have expected given their certainty that NatWests 
mistake was the reason they didnt get the mortgage they wanted. 
I must also bear in mind that there are many reasons why Mr and Mrs Ps sale and purchase 
might not have completed successfully. Mr and Mrs P were, as the investigator pointed out, 
in the very early stages of selling their property and buying another one. I can certainly 
understand that the reduced rates of stamp duty land tax may have been one of the factors 
in their decision to try to move house, and those rates changed in July 2021 and will again in 
October. But there would never have been any guarantee of completion by these deadlines 
in any event, I think NatWest put its mistake right quickly once Mr and Mrs P pointed out the 
problem and, as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs P had the opportunity to appeal against the 
lenders decision, knowing their credit files didnt correctly reflect how they had run their 
mortgage.
I was sorry to read about Mr and Mrs Ps difficult circumstances and the stressful time they 
have been through. Ive noted their strength of feeling, and I recognise that this matter 
caused them avoidable upset. Nonetheless, in all the circumstances, I find the apology and 
£200 compensation from NatWest represent a fair and reasonable outcome, and I cant fairly 
require it to pay any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense that I make no order or 
award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman