DRN-3915389
The complaint
Mr M and Miss H complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund them for 
payments which they said they didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr M went abroad, and on 31 May 2022 he used his card and PIN to withdraw cash to the 
equivalent of £87.08.
On 2 June, Mr M contacted Barclays. He said that his partner had phoned him asking about 
multiple cash withdrawals on their joint account, and it was then that he noticed his Barclays 
card was missing. He told Barclays that a few people had been behind him when hed been 
withdrawing the cash on 31 May, which might have been where his PIN had been 
compromised.  
Mr M disputed seven cash withdrawals transactions, starting on 31 May at around 13.40 pm, 
and ending on 2 June just after midnight. There were three on 31 May, three on 1 June, and 
one on 2 June. The transactions ranged from £42.65 to £258, and totalled £778.88.
Barclays blocked the card, but asked Mr M about a large credit to the account shortly before 
Mr Ms trip. Mr M said that had been for emergency funds for his trip, and also to cover 
mortgage payments and his partners general spending. Mr M also said he had a tenant who 
paid in cash every month, and Barclays asked for proof about the incoming money.
Barclays initially gave Mr M an incorrect email address to which he should forward the 
supporting evidence about where the cash deposit had come from. So it was 25 July before 
Barclays received the form back. But Barclays still didnt agree that the cash withdrawals 
totalling £778.88 had been carried out fraudulently.
Mr M complained, and Barclays issued its final response on 25 July. It apologised for having 
provided Mr M with an incorrect email address to which he should forward the supporting 
information about the incoming credit before the disputed withdrawals. It credited the 
account with £50 for the inconvenience of that. But Barclays said that it didnt uphold Mr M 
and Miss Hs fraud claim, and still held them liable for the disputed £778.88.
Mr M and Miss H werent satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. She said that after speaking to Mr M, she 
couldnt understand how someone could have seen his PIN without him noticing. So she 
couldnt see how the PIN had been compromised. The investigator also said that the 
disputed transactions had taken place over three days. This wasnt typical of fraud, where a 
third party fraudster would normally spend the money quickly. So the investigator thought 
that it was most likely that Mr M authorised the disputed transactions, either by making the 
transactions himself or by allowing someone else to make them.
Mr M and Miss H didnt agree. Mr M said that if hed noticed the PIN being compromised 
when hed been at the cash machine, he wouldnt have taken out the money. Mr M also said 
that when hed contacted Barclays, Barclays had said there had been further attempts to 
take money out each day, which had been blocked when the fraudster had tried to take 
money over the daily maximum withdrawal. So he didnt think it was valid to say that the 
pattern wasnt typical of a fraudster. Mr M said the investigator hadnt looked at it thoroughly.  
The complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in May and June 2022 are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Barclays) must show 
the transactions were authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Ive seen the 
technical evidence to show that Mr Ms genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were 
used. So the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
Mr M reported the card missing on 2 June, after he says Miss H contacted him to query large 
cash withdrawals on their account. Its surprising that he didnt notice its loss earlier, and he 
hasnt commented about how he thinks the card might have been either lost or stolen. He 
said that he thinks the way someone might have found out the PIN for the card was when he 
was at the cash machine on 31 May, where he withdrew the equivalent in local currency 
(after charges) of £87.08. He told our investigator that there were people behind him in the 
queue. 
Ive looked carefully at this and the next transaction. Mr Ms genuine withdrawal took place at 
13.39pm. The first disputed withdrawal took place at a different machine at 13:46 pm.  So in 
seven minutes, any fraudster would have had to have looked over Mr Ms shoulder, without 
Mr M being aware, to see his PIN being entered; then stolen Mr Ms card, again without Mr 
M being aware; then gone to a different location; then completed a withdrawal for the 
equivalent in local currency (after charges) of £168.75.
This timescale appears to me to be very tight. Its also surprising that Mr M didnt notice 
anyone being close enough to see his PIN being entered, or that he didnt realise theyd 
stolen his card.
But even more surprising is the fact that any such fraudster only took out £168.75 at first. It 
would be normal for any fraudster to take out the maximum possible, starting with a high 
figure then, if that was rejected, reducing the amount. Thats not what happened here. On 31 
May, after Mr Ms genuine £87.08 withdrawal and the first disputed £168.75 withdrawal, 
there was then another small withdrawal of £27.78. There was, as Mr M said that Barclays 
told him, a rejected withdrawal after that. That was for £44.37. It was rejected because the 
maximum daily cash withdrawal on Mr M and Miss Hs card was £300, and the withdrawal 
would have taken the total over that limit. There are similar patterns on the subsequent days. 
But the pattern here isnt what a typical fraudster would do.Ive also looked at Mr M and Miss Hs account. There were two large credits to it just before 
Mr Ms trip abroad, one for £1,200 and the other for £1,000. I can see that there was a 
pattern of £1,000 credits, approximately monthly, to the account, and I note that Mr M said 
that he received rent from a tenant. But on the statements available to me, I cant see any 
other months when there were two large credits in this way. So I can understand why 
Barclays queried the credit, as it might well appear that the money had been put in the 
account so that there were enough funds for Mr M to spend money on his trip. It was only 
because of these credits that there was enough money in the account for the disputed 
withdrawals totalling £778.88. As far as I can see, Barclays only queried one of these 
credits. But it is at least a coincidence that there were large credits to the account shortly 
before the disputed withdrawals.
Taking all these factors into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr M authorised the 
disputed cash withdrawals himself, or authorised someone else to do so on his behalf. So I 
do not uphold this complaint and dont require Barclays to refund him. 
Finally, Ive considered whether the £50 compensation which Barclays paid was fair and 
reasonable for the distress and inconvenience caused by its error in giving Mr M and 
incorrect email address to which he was to send evidence about the incoming credit. I find 
that it was, and dont require Barclays to increase this amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman