DRN-3249634
The complaint
N, a limited company complains that Bank of Scotland plc has unfairly placed a block on its 
business account.
N wants Bank of Scotland to remove the block, honour any unpaid cheques and pay the 
costs associated with resolving the problem. N is represented in this complaint by a director, 
Mr O.
 
What happened
N holds a business bank account with Bank of Scotland. In early 2020, N applied for internet 
banking. Bank of Scotland told N that before its application could be processed, it would 
need to complete a new mandate.
In around September 2020, Bank of Scotland placed a block on Ns account. This meant that 
cheques were returned as unpaid. After N complained, Bank of Scotland apologised for not 
sending N a new mandate to complete and offered to pay £100 compensation. Bank of 
Scotland explained that it had placed a block on the account after receiving notification of a 
dispute from one of the directors.
N was unhappy that Bank of Scotland wouldnt send it a copy of the letter telling it about the 
dispute.  
The investigator didnt recommend that Ns complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Bank of Scotland had suspended Ns account in line with its terms and conditions. She didnt 
think that Bank of Scotland was wrong to ask N to request a copy of the dispute letter from 
the directors solicitors. The investigator said that it was reasonable of Bank of Scotland to 
say that Ns account would remain blocked until the directors had reached an agreement 
about the management of the account.
Mr O on behalf of N is unhappy with the investigators recommendation, so the complaint 
has come to me for a decision. He points out that N acts by its board of directors and that its 
Articles of Association require the board to act on a simple majority rather than unanimously. 
Mr O says that the disputing director has now appointed an alternate director and isnt taking 
part in the business of N.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
I should also say that this service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses 
that we cover. My role is not to punish or penalise businesses for the way in which they 
conduct their business  thats the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. 
But we can consider whether Bank of Scotland followed its procedures in the actions it has 
taken against N and if it applied these fairly.
The general conditions of Ns bank account with Bank of Scotland state that if theres a 
dispute between the directors about the companys account with us, we may require all 
directors to authorise transactions until all directors agree how the accounts are to be run. If 
this happens, we will not make any payment out of the accounts unless authorised by all 
directors. We will suspend all facilities requiring authorisation from only one director or 
authorised signatory  for example cards, internet or electronic banking  until the dispute is 
resolved.
In August 2020, Bank of Scotland received a letter from a solicitor acting on behalf of one of 
the directors of N. The gist of the letter was that following the death of one of the directors of 
N, there was a dispute over who should be a signatory to its bank accounts. The director 
asked that N make no changes to the bank mandates and that further transactions didnt 
take place.
In line with the terms of the account, Bank of Scotland placed a block on the account. I 
appreciate that this was frustrating to N, particularly as cheques were returned unpaid. But I 
cant find that Bank of Scotland was wrong to take this step once it had been made aware of 
the dispute.
Bank of Scotlands records indicate that it tried to contact one of the directors to inform N of 
the dispute and subsequent blocking of the account. But that there wasnt an option to leave 
a voicemail. However, I dont consider that Bank of Scotland was required to give N advance 
notice of its intention once it had received the dispute letter.
My understanding of the situation is that there were originally three directors named on the 
mandate. One of the directors has died, leaving two on the mandate with one of those in 
dispute. So, when Bank of Scotland received a letter from N asking to lift the block, it said it 
couldnt do this as only one person on the mandate had signed the letter. Im satisfied that 
Bank of Scotland explained to the director who wanted the block lifted that it would need 
written confirmation from both parties to the mandate. Although this was frustrating for N, I 
cant find that Bank of Scotland made a mistake.
I appreciate that N wanted Bank of Scotland to send it a copy of the dispute letter, but I dont 
find that it was obliged to do this. From Bank of Scotlands records, it appears that it gave a 
director of N the details of the solicitor acting on behalf of the disputing director. I consider 
this was fair in the circumstances and it wouldve been for N to request a copy. 
During this complaint, the investigator referred to some of the contents of the dispute letter, 
so I thought it reasonable to provide this to N for information. This doesnt mean that I 
consider Bank of Scotland shouldve done this in the first place  just that given the 
investigators communication with N, it seemed fairer to provide the letter in a redacted form. 
I appreciate that N wants to keep operating its business and needs access to the money in 
its account. But for all the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont consider I can interfere in Bank 
of Scotlands business decision to block the account. 
Bank of Scotland agrees that it shouldve sent N a new mandate when it requested one in 
early 2020. To apologise it paid N £100. I think this was fair, particularly as I dont have 
evidence that the failure led to a financial loss for N. I note that N says it still hasnt received the mandate. Although the block remains on the account, I can see that Bank of Scotland 
said that it would send the mandate to N. If it hasnt done so already, Bank of Scotland 
should do this.
Some of the points that Mr O made about the running of N and the absence of the disputing 
director seem more suited to the courts to decide. I dont think that its for Bank of Scotland 
to reach a conclusion on the fairness of the dispute between the directors of N. The fact that 
a dispute is notified to Bank of Scotland is enough to trigger the suspension of the account 
under the terms of the account.
Once Bank of Scotland receives confirmation that the dispute over who should be signatory 
to Ns bank accounts is resolved, I would expect Bank of Scotland to lift the block on the 
account. It may of course be the case that to resolve the dispute, legal action is necessary. 
But I hope that going forward an agreement can be reached between the directors to avoid 
this.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Bank of Scotland plc has 
already offered and done enough to put things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman