DRN-1548627
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that TSB Bank plc ended an offer to waive early repayment 
charges (ERC). They wanted to be able to move to a new lender, or onto a new rate with 
TSB, without paying the ERC.
What happened
Due to a systems issue when TSB migrated its computer system, it was unable to offer 
further advances to its mortgage customers between 16 March and 27 November 2018. To 
ensure its customers werent disadvantaged, it offered to allow customers that wanted to 
apply for a further advance in that period the chance to move their mortgage to a new lender 
without any ERC being incurred.
Mr C phoned TSB on 20 September 2018 as he and Mrs C wanted to borrow more money. 
He was told that wasnt something TSB could do at that time and if they needed a further 
advance before TSB was able to offer them again then TSB would waive the ERC to allow 
Mr and Mrs C to move their mortgage to a new lender so they could achieve that aim.
As the system issue was resolved, TSB no longer offered the ERC waiver from 
27 November, so when Mr C phoned back on 5 December he was told that was no longer an 
option.
Our investigator didnt think TSB had done anything wrong. As Mr and Mrs C didnt agree it 
has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious Ive condensed the events of the complaint into rather less detail than theyve 
been presented in. No discourtesy is intended by this; its merely a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service. Whilst Ive concentrated on what I think is the crux of the complaint, 
I assure Mr and Mrs C that Ive read everything they and TSB have said and sent. 
TSB was originally unable to supply a copy of the call to this service, but that has recently 
been provided and Ive listened to it in full. Having done so, Im sorry to say that the call 
recording doesnt support Mr and Mrs Cs recollections of events.
Mr and Mrs C have said, I quote: 
I asked the call to be logged and stated I would definitely be taking up the offer of 
waiving the ERP charge. The person in the TSB call centre I spoke to at the time 
advised me on several things regarding the offer to waive the ERP charge. The main 
points being once I asked for the process to start I would receive a letter which would 
be valid for three months from that date in which the whole re-mortgage process would 
need to be completed.
Secondly I should get a mortgage offer in place before requesting the waiver letter 
and, most importantly, the ERP waiver offer would be in place until the end of 
December 2018. I asked to be notified immediately if the offer was to be withdrawn.
I was told the offer would last until at least December 2018.
The TSB call handler I spoke with did not say the offer was in place until the end of 
December. They said the offer would be in place until at least the end of December 
and probably in to the next year.
Having listened to the call, Im satisfied that at no point was Mr C told the offer would run 
until December. He also didnt ask to be notified if the offer was withdrawn.
They key parts of the call are below (this isnt an exact transcript, as Ive not included various 
interjections, or parts that arent relevant to my findings):
TSB: Were not actually offering further borrowing at the moment. What were doing is if 
it is something that you cant wait for us to do because we dont know when were 
going to have that back up and running again, is that if you need to go to a new 
lender we are going to waive any early repayment charges that you might incur 
from having to go to a new lender.
But someone will need to speak to you about that, or you can have a think about 
that one because if thats something that you wanted to do then there are notes 
that have to get put onto your account in reference to that. So when it does come 
to the redeeming of the mortgage that the redemption figure goes through without 
the early repayment charge on there, if that was something that you wanted to do. 
You might want to think about that one before you do it as well because also you 
get three months in which to begin the process.
Mr H asked why TSB was waiving the ERC, and the call handler explained it was due to a 
systems issue TSB was having which meant it was unable to offer further advances, and it 
had to withdraw products. 
There was then a discussion about the fact once Mr C says they want to go ahead with it the 
letter is issued and that would give 12 weeks for the process to be completed. 
TSB: What we do is we send a letter out to you confirming we will waive those ERCs 
because you are having a further advance with another company
Mr C: What happens if then I dont want to go ahead with it, if I just want to see?
TSB: Wait for us?
Mr C: Yeah
TSB: If you just want to wait for us then obviously thats entirely up to you, we can take 
some details from you and then we can contact you when the further advances 
come up. But at the moment honestly, weve got no idea when they are going to 
be back up and running again. If you need it quickly
Mr C: I might speak to somebody then if I can about that just to get that in place, just in 
the off chance we do want to do that.Mr C: So who do I need to speak to for that one?
TSB: For the further advance? Youd phone us back up again and then wed put the 
notes and everything on your account.
There were further discussions where the call handler explained if Mr C said he wanted to do 
it today then the 12 weeks would start from now, whereas if he did some research and 
phoned back in 3 or 4 weeks then hed have more time.
Mr C: So nothings going to happen in the next couple of weeks you dont think on this?
TSB: No, definitely not, this is definitely going to be a longer-term thing. Its not 
imminent.
Mr C:Brilliant, Ill leave it
In any event, this complaint doesnt turn on what was said in that call, because at the heart 
of this complaint I think is a misunderstanding about why TSB offered the ERC waiver. 
Mr and Mrs C have said:
For us to change mortgage product, with the TSB or to another lender, we have to pay 
an ERC of £6,152.08 This effectively means we have not been able to consider changing 
our mortgage product for the past year and this will continue for another year as we 
cannot afford to pay out over £6000.00 to cover the ERC.
The ERC waiver wasnt offered to allow customers who were tied into a fixed interest rate to 
change to a lower interest rate. It was offered to help customers that had an immediate need 
for a further advance at a time TSB couldnt offer that service.
If TSB hadnt had the systems issue, then no waiver would have been available as 
customers could have applied for further advances with TSB as normal. 
So, if nothing had gone wrong with TSBs systems in 2018 Mr and Mrs C would still have 
been tied into the contract they chose to enter into in 2015, which was for a rate that was 
fixed at 2.99% until 31 December 2020. And if they wanted to come out of that rate early  
either by moving to a new lender, or to a better rate with TSB  then they would have 
incurred the ERC.
Mr and Mrs C have no right to betterment (that is, the right to move to a better rate without 
paying the ERC) just because TSB had a systems problem. That 2015 contract was binding 
on both parties, and if Mr and Mrs C wanted to end that contract early as theyd found a 
more competitive rate elsewhere then they needed to pay the ERC. 
By offering that waiver when it did TSB didnt alter any of its customers underlying mortgage 
contracts. Instead it simply  in the interests of good customer service  allowed customers 
who wanted to borrow extra money the ability to move their mortgages elsewhere to achieve 
that aim without incurring an ERC. If a customer didnt want to actively pursue borrowing 
extra money in that period then the systems issue didnt affect them and there was no need 
for the ERC to be waived for those customers.
Mr and Mrs C hadnt yet applied for a mortgage elsewhere when they contacted TSB again 
on 5 December 2018 so they hadnt incurred any costs. As by then TSB had fixed the 
systems issue it was able to proceed with further advances again so there was no need for it 
to continue to waive ERCs. At that point Mr and Mrs C could have reverted to their original plan which was to apply for a further advance with TSB as Mr C indicated he wanted to 
discuss in the original call of 20 September 2018.
If Mr and Mrs C had acted sooner then they might have been able to take advantage of the 
offer so they could switch to a mortgage elsewhere with a lower rate, and it may be that they 
didnt do so because they felt reassured the waiver offer would continue for some time. But 
TSB was entitled to remove the waiver offer when it was able to start arranging further 
advances again.
TSB didnt need to warn its customers that it was stopping the ERC waiver. It also didnt 
need to tell Mr and Mrs C that it could end the waiver at any time. Thats because the waiver 
was in place to deal with a specific issue (the fact TSB couldnt issue any further advances). 
As TSB could now offer further advances again there was no need for that ERC waiver to 
remain in place. Any customer that wanted a further advance could now apply again to TSB 
just as they normally would. 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage has run exactly in line with the contract they entered into in 2015. 
If they needed a further advance between 16 March and 27 November 2018 then TSB was 
willing to waive the ERC to allow them to move their mortgage elsewhere to achieve that 
aim, but as Mr and Mrs C didnt apply for a remortgage (with extra borrowing) in that 
timeframe they werent disadvantaged by TSBs system issue therefore there was no need 
for TSB to waive the ERC for them.
Finally, Mr and Mrs C have said, I quote:
As we are all now aware if I had taken further borrowing with the TSB or another 
lender at this time, and the waiver offer was not in place, I would have had to pay the 
ERC charge. This would have been inhibitive and I would not have proceeded.
The important point here is I would have had to pay the ERC charge even if I took 
further borrowing with the TSB.
I would therefore argue our position has changed. If I wanted to apply to the TSB for 
further borrowing I would have to pay the ERC.
Again, this seems to be a misunderstanding on Mr and Mrs Cs part. If theyd applied for a 
further advance with TSB either before 16 March 2018 or after 27 November 2018 then they 
wouldnt have incurred an ERC. 
An ERC would only have been incurred if Mr and Mrs C ended their 2015 mortgage contract 
before 31 December 2020; either by remortgaging to another lender, or by asking TSB if 
they could end the 2.99% fixed rate and change to a different rate. Taking out a further 
advance wouldnt have triggered the ERC.
From 27 November 2018 on, Mr and Mrs C could have applied for a further advance with 
TSB, and that application would have been assessed in line with TSBs normal lending 
policy. Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have incurred an ERC if theyd taken out a further advance 
with TSB as the 2015 part of the mortgage would just have continued to run as normal, with 
the further advance being a separate sub-account that would run alongside on whatever rate 
was available for further advances at that time.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr and Mrs C to decide if now  on reflection  they 
wish to contact TSB Bank plc directly to accept the offer it made in its response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman