DRN-3540781
The complaint
Mr M complains that Society of Lloyd's (SoL) didnt fairly handle his claim for damage to his 
wheelchair under his Mobility Scooter Insurance policy.
I understand that Mr M has raised additional complaint points after the second final response 
letter was issued. These covered the expenses he said hed incurred due to not having a 
working wheelchair and a cheque he said SoL sent him without explanation. As SoL werent 
given the opportunity to address either of these points in the final response letters covering 
the complaint I am considering, I wont be addressing them in my decision. If Mr M would like 
to, he can progress these aspects of his complaint with SoL in the first instance before 
bringing them to this service.
What happened
I understand that Mr M bought his wheelchair in March 2021. He held Mobility Scooter 
insurance with SoL. He had an accident which damaged his wheelchair. He reported it to 
SoL on 16 June 2021. 
SoL asked Mr M to complete a claim form and to send pictures of the damage on 18 June 
2021. They also asked him to ask the repairers to send their estimate for the repair to them. 
The repairers sent Mr M a quote for £709 for the repairs on 21 June 2021. 
SoL asked Mr M for a copy of the quote on 29 June 2021. He said hed already sent it, but 
sent it again anyway. 
SoL told Mr M theyd approved his claim on 2 July 2021. They said the repairers would 
contact him about the repair.
On 7 July 2021 Mr M contacted SoL. He said that the repairers had told him that the part 
they needed for the repair was obsolete. But they could repair it with used parts from other 
wheelchair controls of the same model. He said he didnt want used parts to be used as they 
caused problems. He asked SoL to send him the money for the parts so he could buy them. 
On 22 July 2021, SoL asked Mr M if he could provide a receipt from the person hed bought 
his wheelchair from. Mr M said he couldnt. SoL said that they couldnt pay money directly 
into Mr Ms bank account so he could buy the parts he needed. They said that they could 
offer a repair under the policy. And that the repairers had said they could do this. They said 
this would restore his wheelchair to its pre-loss condition. They also said that if Mr M wanted 
them to consider replacing his wheelchair they needed an official purchase invoice.
Mr M sent SoL a receipt for £600 for the purchase of his wheelchair. He also provided a 
receipt dated 30 September 2019 for £900. I understand this is what the previous owner had 
paid for the wheelchair.   
Mr M hadnt heard from SoL, so he chased them on 17 August 2021. SoL said they tried to 
call him that day. 
On 26 August 2021 SoL told Mr M that their underwriters had confirmed that used parts 
would have to be used to repair the wheelchair. They said that the purpose of the policy was 
to indemnify the customer back to pre-loss condition. They said that as the wheelchair was 
purchased used and was several years old at the time of the accident it was reasonable to 
use used parts. 
Mr M complained to SoL. He didnt want to repair his wheelchair with used parts. He felt the 
policy covered him for new parts. He also disagreed that his wheelchair was as old as SoL 
had said it was. He said it was at that time under two years old. Mr M considered that his 
policy provided the option to either repair with new parts or to replace his wheelchair with a 
new one. He felt that SoL had offered him a replacement in their 22 July 2021 email. Mr M 
also said that although he had the right to have a replacement wheelchair under his policy, 
SoL hadnt offered him one over the course of his claim.
SoL issued their first final response to the complaint on 8 September 2021. They upheld the 
complaint and apologised for the poor service Mr M had received. They said that they 
shouldnt have declined Mr Ms request for a cash settlement. They also said that an email 
theyd sent on 22 July 2021 had given Mr M incorrect advice. This email had said: If you 
wish us to consider replacing the chair we would require an official purchase invoice. SoL 
felt that this may have led Mr M to have a false expectation about what was covered under 
his policy, as it wouldnt allow for a replacement in his case as the wheelchair was more than 
four years old, repair was possible and Mr M hadnt purchased the wheelchair from new. 
SoL said that the repairer who had provided the repair quote provided a three-month 
warranty on all repairs. They said that as the wheelchair could be repaired, the limit of their 
liability was £709 under the terms of the policy. They offered £300 compensation for the poor 
service, in addition to the £709 they proposed to pay to settle the claim.
Mr M didnt accept SoLs offer. He asked them to replace his wheelchair with one of the 
same make and characteristics. 
SoL said that they called the manufacturer of the wheelchair and supplied the serial number 
that Mr M had provided to them. They said that the manufacturer had confirmed that it had 
been made in 2014. 
SoL issued their second final response on 21 October 2021. They said theyd confirmed with 
the manufacturer that the wheelchair was made in 2014, and was therefore seven years old, 
not two years old as Mr M had suggested. They said that as the wheelchair was more than 
four years old, this meant that the policy could only pay the cost of repairs or provide a cash 
settlement, not a replacement wheelchair. Therefore they felt that the £709 theyd offered 
was fair and in line with the terms of the policy. 
SoL acknowledged that Mr Ms policy provided cover for hiring alternative equipment. And 
agreed to pay Mr M the maximum benefit of £100 under this cover. In total, SoL agreed to 
pay Mr M the following:
- £300 compensation to apologise for any distress and inconvenience the settlement of 
the claim had caused. 
- £709 cash settlement based on the repair cost. 
- £100 cash settlement for the cover provided for hiring alternative equipment. 
- 8% simple interest on the total cash settlement of £809. 
Mr M said he was still unhappy. He said that because of SoLs mistakes he now couldnt get a new replacement part for his wheelchair. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that SoL had 
taken reasonable steps to put things right.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I understand that this will be disappointing to Mr 
M. Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
I first considered if SoL acted fairly, and in a timely manner when they initially accepted the 
claim and asked Mr M to arrange for a quote for the repairs.
From what Ive seen, Mr M reported on the claim form that the wheelchair had been 
manufactured in 2019/20 and had a market value £7,000 to £8,000. However, when Mr M 
bought the wheelchair, it was advertised as having originally cost £3,500 in 2019. Mr M had 
himself paid £600 for the wheelchair in 2021. It appears that the person Mr M bought it from 
only paid £900 for the wheelchair in 2019. It therefore seems likely that the person Mr M 
bought the wheelchair from hadnt bought it new.
The evidence shows that SoL processed the claim relatively quickly. I would expect them to 
do so given the vital nature of the item insured. The claim was approved on 2 July 2021, 
which was just over two weeks after the claim was reported, and after a quote had been 
obtained and shared. I think the claim wouldve been approved more quickly if Mr M had 
asked the repairers to send the quote direct to SoL, as theyd asked him to do. 
Five days after the claim had been approved, on 7 July 2021, Mr M told SoL that he wasnt 
happy for the repairs to be completed with a used part. He felt that could cause him trouble 
later on, and would mean he had a shorter guarantee. I can understand why Mr M felt that 
way. But, according to the terms of the policy, SoL were entitled to either pay for the cost of 
repairs or offer a cash settlement. This was because the wheelchair was more than four 
years old. And Ive found no requirement in the terms and conditions for a new part to be 
used. So I cant say SoL made any errors in their initial processing of the claim.
I acknowledge that after Mr M rejected SoLs initial offer, they made mistakes in further 
processing his claim. But I consider that their initial offer was fair and reasonable. And if Mr 
M had accepted it, there wouldve been no need for further delays or for additional costs to 
be incurred. 
I next considered the mistakes SoL have acknowledged, and whether I think their offer of 
redress is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
SoL have apologised for the poor service Mr M received. They said they shouldnt have 
declined his request for a cash settlement. And that they were wrong to give him the false 
impression that he might be able to get a replacement wheelchair under the terms of the 
policy. They also accepted that Mr M couldve hired alternative equipment under the terms of 
his policy, so offered to pay him the maximum amount - £100  under that cover.
Ive carefully considered whether SoLs offer does enough to put things right. I acknowledge 
that Mr M would like a replacement wheelchair, but I can confirm that as his existing wheelchair was more than four years old at the time of the claim, his policy didnt provide 
cover for a replacement. I know Mr M doesnt consider that his wheelchair was more than 
four years old at the time. His view is that it was coming up to two years old. But I dont 
agree. Im satisfied that the manufacturer has confirmed the wheelchair was made in 2014. 
And I dont agree with Mr M that the relevant point is when the wheelchair was first bought. 
In any event, Ive seen no evidence that the wheelchair was first bought in 2019. Therefore 
Im satisfied that SoL correctly identified that the wheelchair was more than four years old  
that is, had been manufactured more than four years ago - at the time of the claim. 
Mr M told SoL he wasnt happy with the proposed repairs on 7 July 2021. But it appears that 
SoL didnt reply to Mr M until 22 July 2021. And I can also see that he had to chase them 
again to progress his claim on 17 August 2021. It wasnt until 26 August 2021 that SoL 
confirmed that they could only repair with used parts. 
Mr M also said that when his request for a cash settlement was declined, it led to him being 
unable to privately source a new replacement part that couldve been used to repair his 
wheelchair. 
SoL acknowledged that their 22 July 2021 email contained incorrect advice which couldve 
given Mr M the false impression that he might be able to get a replacement wheelchair. 
Theyve also acknowledged that they shouldnt have declined Mr Ms request for a cash 
settlement. They offered £300 for the errors and the poor service.
SoL also said that during the course of their investigation into Mr Ms complaint, they 
realised that he couldve claimed for the cost of hiring alternative equipment. They said that 
the maximum claim under this section of the policy was £100. They offered to pay Mr M the 
maximum £100 benefit under this section, plus interest.
While I understand that Mr M considers that the failure to pay him a cash settlement led to 
him being unable to source a new replacement part, Im not persuaded that he couldve 
been certain that the new replacement part wouldve been definitively better than the used 
part the repairer had offered to use and to guarantee. Ive also seen no evidence that it 
became impossible to source a new replacement part due to the delay in agreeing to a cash 
settlement. Therefore, while I accept that it mustve been frustrating to miss out on the new 
part, Im satisfied that SoLs offer of £300 compensation for their errors and poor service was 
fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
Having reviewed the details of Mr Ms policy, Im satisfied that SoL have fairly followed the 
terms and conditions when processing Mr Ms repair claim, and in making their offer of £100 
in respect of hiring alternative equipment. 
Overall, I consider that SoLs offer to Mr M takes reasonable steps to put things right. Im 
satisfied that the wheelchair was more than four years old at the time of the claim. And that 
the policy doesnt allow for a replacement due to the age, the fact that repair was possible, 
and because Mr M hadnt purchased the wheelchair from new. Im also satisfied that SoLs 
offer of £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair. And I consider that their 
total cash settlement offer of £809, plus interest, is reasonable under the circumstances. 
Therefore I dont consider that SoL need to make any further payments. And I dont uphold 
the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman