DRN-3600267
The complaint
Ms G complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday), 
irresponsibly granted her a loan that she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Everyday provided a £10,000 loan to Ms G in July 2016. Once interest was added the total 
to pay back was £22,265.64; Ms G was to make 36 monthly payments of £618.49. 
Ms G said Everyday were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable.
Everyday disagreed. They said that when they approved the loan applications they reviewed 
Ms Gs credit file and gathered information on her income and expenditure from payslips and 
bank statements. They noted she was in regular employment with a salary of around £1,978 
per month and paying £200 board to her parents who she lived with at the time. They said 
that the information they had gathered suggested that after the Everyday loan was taken into 
account Ms G would have about £426 of disposable income and they therefore thought the 
loan was affordable for her.
Our investigator thought that Everyday shouldnt have provided the loan and suggested 
Everyday should take some action to remedy the situation. But Everyday didnt agree. They 
explained that most of the loan was going towards debt consolidation and they didnt think it 
had been made irresponsibly. The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I think Everyday completed proportionate checks before approving the loan. They reviewed 
Ms Gs credit file and checked her income and expenditure through wage slips and bank 
statements. But I dont think the information Everyday gathered demonstrated that Ms G 
would be able to sustainably repay the credit they were providing.
Ms Gs was using about £8,000 of the loan to consolidate some debt, but she wasnt 
consolidating all of her debt and after the loan was approved and the debts consolidated she 
still had monthly loan payments of about £1,028 (including this loan), a credit card debt of 
about £1,000 and mail order debts. I think, in those circumstances, it was clear that given 
her income and the expenditure Everyday had identified from her bank statements, it was 
irresponsible of Everyday to create further indebtedness and that the loan wasnt affordable 
for Ms G.
Putting things right
To settle Ms Gs complaint, Everyday should:
Add up the total amount of money Ms G received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Ms G made should be deducted from this amount. 
a) If this results in Ms G having paid more than she received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Ms G for the capital amount 
only.
Once the capital has been repaid, remove any adverse information recorded on Ms 
Gs credit file relating to the loan.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. 
If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right in the manner 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman