DRN-2820452
The complaint
Mr M says Swissquote Ltd (SL) is responsible for financial losses that resulted from an 
erroneous trade (or the trade) in his account on 13 May 2020 (13 May) caused by a fault in 
SLs platform, leading to an equally faulty correction by SL and to his losses.
SL concedes that the trade was wrongly executed (and should not have been executed) 
because of a fault in its platform. It says the fault was fixed, that corrections to the account 
were agreed by Mr M and applied, that they were not faulty corrections and that he suffered 
no financial loss. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter. Initially, she addressed a concern that SL 
held about our jurisdiction over the complaint and about Mr Ms eligibility as a complainant. 
Its concern was addressed, and that issue was resolved. In the course of addressing the 
merits of the complaint, the investigator identified that its crux is not in dispute and has been 
accepted by SL, so she considered that the main issue to determine is redress for any 
financial loss Mr M incurred (and the dispute between the parties in this respect). In the 
main, she found the background facts as follows:
The trade on 13 May was in the GBP/CHF pair and was supposed to be in the size of 
0.05 LOT. Instead it was executed at the size of 5 LOTS. It is not clear how 0.05 
turned into 5, but it is clear that SLs platform wrongly executed it, because a fault 
within it meant it calculated Available Margin (AM) wrongly  it calculated it as 
Balance (B) minus Required Margin (RM) instead of Equity (E) minus RM, and 
had its calculation been based on the latter (which was the correct approach) the 
trade would not have been executed because there would have been insufficient AM 
to do so.
Execution of the trade had the immediate effect of reducing AM in Mr Ms account, 
which led to automatic margin breach close-outs of some of the open trades he had 
in the account. He noticed the trade and its effects in the account and he contacted 
SL. He also set out to mitigate the effects by closing some trades that remained 
opened and by cancelling some pending orders. His mitigation conduct in this 
respect was reasonable as it was important to re-balance the account and avoid 
further loss after the events. Evidence in the end-of-day statement of account for 13 
May shows that he was broadly successful in his conduct and that he closed most of 
the open positions in profit.
On 14 May 2020 (14 May) SL agreed to apply corrections to the matter, by voiding 
the 5 LOTS trade, by restoring the trades that were closed-out as part of the margin 
breach close-outs triggered by execution of the 5 LOTS trade and by adjusting the 
accounts B to reflect the corrections that were made. In order to do this, it 
temporarily applied (and then withdrew) 50,000 EUR to the account to provide 
enough temporary AM to carry out the corrections. Upon completion of the 
corrections and withdrawal of this temporary deposit, the account experienced a 
second phase of margin breach close-outs.
Initially, the investigator concluded that, despite the corrections, there had been a financial 
loss to Mr M (a significant loss in his accounts B). She considered that the second phase of 
close-outs, SLs failure to keep Mr M updated on its correction work despite his requests for 
updates and its failure to give him notice of completion and notice that he could resume 
trading in the account (after it blocked him from doing so whilst the corrections were 
ongoing) were parts of the basis to find such loss. She also considered the compounded 
effect of the loss to date and set out her view on how Mr M should be compensated for this  
in addition to a payment to him in the EUR equivalent of £250 for the trouble and upset the 
matter had caused him.
SL agreed with the trouble and upset award proposed by the investigator. However, it 
disputed her initial conclusion on redress and on the existence of a financial loss. It invited 
her to consider what it viewed as relevant clarifications about the state of Mr Ms account, 
before and after the corrections; and about its offer to him, which he declined, to repeat the 
corrections for a second time after the second phase of close-outs in order to address that 
too.
SL submitted mainly as follows:
The investigator misguided herself by basing her assessment of a financial loss on 
the closing B in Mr Ms account on 12 May 2020 (12 May) being around 37,000 
EUR and then most of that B being lost thereafter despite the corrections. 
[In this respect, SL provided account statement information showing the closing B for 
13 May at around 2,100 EUR and that for 14 May at around 9,800 EUR; but it said 
this did not define value (retained or lost) in the account.]
Even though the closing B for 12 May was as it was (around 37,000 EUR) the closing 
floating profit/loss (P/L) position in the account on the same date was around -
34,800 EUR, which is why closing E in the account for the date (E being B plus or 
minus P/L) was around 2,200 EUR. This  the E  was the true value of the account 
and consideration of B alone wrongly neglects the accounts net P/L position, which 
cannot be ignored. Closing E in the account on 13 May was the same as the closing 
B (around 2,100 EUR. Closing E on 14 May was just over 2,000 EUR. This shows 
that overall, the state of E in Mr Ms account before, during and after the erroneous 
trade and corrections was broadly around the same level; and it is the accounts E 
that shows its value, so there was negligible loss (due to market movements) in this 
respect and none caused by the corrections.
The above explains why SL had to apply (and then withdraw) the temporary 50,000 
EUR deposit on 14 May. But for that, the account had insufficient E (just over 2,000 
EUR) at the time to sustain the restoration of trades that had floating P/L of around -
34,800 EUR.
SLs corrections put Mr Ms account back to the state it was prior to the trade that 
was wrongly executed. It accepts that after the corrections Mr M was not in a 
position, and would not have had the time, to take any action in order to avoid the 
second phase of close-outs on 14 May. However, this second phase had nothing to 
do with its corrections. The relevant markets that he was trading in had already 
moved against his trades on 12 May, hence the negative P/L position at closing on 
that day; in addition, Mr M had opened new trades after the first phase of close-outs 
which had reduced E capacity in the account. The first phase of close-outs, triggered 
by the wrongly executed trade, crystalised that total loss on 13 May. However, the corrections on 14 May returned that total loss to floating status because the relevant 
trades were restored as agreed. The markets for those trades moved further against 
them after they were restored and the account had insufficient E to cope with that, 
hence the triggering of the second phase of close-outs. 
SLs corrections had nothing to do with Mr Ms sole contractual responsibility to keep 
his account properly funded and to maintain E and AM required to sustain his trades. 
Nevertheless, and in discussions with him after the second phase, it made another 
offer to him to try to resolve the second phase of close-outs. It gave him the option of 
having another corrections exercise, essentially a repeat of the first exercise but this 
time with him required to fund the account in order to have enough E/AM to maintain 
the re-opened positions after the corrections. He declined this offer.
Overall, the investigator was persuaded by what she considered key points in SLs 
submissions and she reversed her view about the existence of a financial loss. She 
essentially concluded that there had been no notable loss to Mr M, caused by SL or by its 
corrections, and that he should receive only the award for trouble and upset (which she 
increased to the EUR equivalent of £550). He strongly disagreed with this outcome and 
maintained he had incurred a financial loss at the time and continuing losses to date, in 
terms of the compounding effects of his initial loss and the values of lost trading 
opportunities that have resulted and continued from that. The investigator stressed that she 
had discussed the matter with him and had invited him to show the financial loss he claims, 
but he had not done so. 
Mr M made a number of submissions in response to the investigators revised views. He 
made references to some past issues he had with SL/his account and some ongoing issues 
he was having with the account. In response, the investigator clarified that these matters 
have not been presented as part of the complaint to SL (and the complaint referred to this 
service) so she is not in a position to make any findings on them. In the main, and directly 
related to the complaint, his submissions said as follows:
SL should explain the error that caused his 0.05 LOT trade to transform into a 5 
LOTS trade.
Nothing in SLs submissions substantiates why it considers  the net profit / 
balance / active P/L that was lost, not a loss.
Crystallisation of floating P/L was a matter for him to determine as the account 
holder/trader. SLs actions deprived him of his right to determine this and deprived 
him the opportunity to apply his trading strategy to the floating P/L issue.
Contrary to the investigators view and SLs claim, there was time after the 
corrections for him to rebalance the account to avoid another phase of close-outs. 
The problem is that SL did not give him notice that it had completed the corrections 
and notice that the block on him trading had been lifted. All he needed to do, based 
on his longstanding trading strategy, was to make one particular transaction and the 
account would have been rebalanced, but lack of notice from SL prevented that. 
With regards to the matter of financial loss, he was  cut almost 38.000 EUR in 
balance / PnL that was worked hardly for. Almost 28.000 EUR are net profits made. 
[It can be seen] in the statement that the actual gross profit was over 44.000 EUR 
and some losses as well. The losses represent technical closings done by the trader. 
There was a plan and a strategy very well applied and [he] got cut off in the middle of 
the way. This service should obtain expert/technical input from a professional trader if we do not understand his case for financial loss.
Mr M summarised the history of his trading in the account and of his trading strategy as 
background for the above assertions; with emphasis on a long term trading strategy that he 
says the event of 13 May disrupted; a strategy that he says had made gains up to the event 
(that could be verified in his account statements) and that would have made even more 
gains but for the event; and, he says, those lost gains are a significant part of the financial 
loss he claims. In addition, he submitted a document in which he set out the calculation of a 
24,502.69 EUR E value loss (from gains made on 11 May 2020 (11 May)), caused by the 
events on 13/14 May and based on the following state of the account on 11 May  total B of 
36,766.08 EUR and E of 2,050.73 EUR. He attached his account statement from 11 May for 
this purpose.
Mr M also made what appears to be a settlement proposal, which he set out as follows: 
I would be happy, provided this would be a solution, to recuperate my account with all the 
opened positions found on GBP/USD on 13th of May 2020, with the mention that the other 
three pairs, GBP/AUD, GBP/CAD, GBP/CHF are restored as balance only. They were 
already eliminated once through the effort of my work so far, and the help of the 10000 EUR 
balance with about 1500 EUR E. This information can be found in the already offered 
documentation. 
If this would be the case, to prevent overlapping with other positions, I suggest opening a 
separate account number in which SQUK would reopen the transactions found on the 
GBP/USD pair, and the E value of 24502.69 EUR as I described above. The account with 
the number  should remain as it is since it represent the defective reopening of SQUK as 
well as my work and investments with the achieved goal of eliminating the other 3 currency 
pairs.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These are my findings:
Responsibility for the platform error that allowed execution of the trade has been 
accepted by SL. There is also an explanation about how that error happened  the 
platform wrongly calculated AM based on B instead of E, had it done the opposite 
there would have been insufficient E in the account to support the trade and it would 
not have been executed. There is sufficient evidence from Mr Ms submissions that 
he was not misguided in any way by any of this  it appears that he suspected there 
was a likely error in this calculation as he noticed the executed trade. It is reasonably 
clear that he knew the true state of his account at the time, so the notion that he was 
misled on the capacity of his account does not stand and is not relevant to the case. I 
do not say or suggest that he has claimed this  he does not appear to have done 
that  but I consider it noteworthy that there was no misunderstanding about the true 
state and capacity of his account prior to the trade.
He says there should be an explanation of how the trade he placed for 0.05 LOT 
transformed to one for 5 LOTS. In the context of this decision, I do not consider this 
to be relevant. The responsibilities for the event on 13 May (that is, the trade that was 
executed) and for the corrections made on 14 May are not in dispute and have been accepted by SL, so the only matters to address are whether (or not) SLs overall 
conduct in correcting the trade (and its effects), including the offers it made in this 
regard, was fair and reasonable; and, if not, how Mr M should be compensated for 
any failure(s) on its part and for any proven financial loss he incurred; and, even if 
SLs conduct was fair and reasonable, whether (or not) there are still matters 
(including any proven financial loss) for which Mr M should be compensated. These 
are the outstanding complaint issues. The explanation Mr M seeks about the 
transformation he has referred to has no potential to play a role in these 
considerations, so I do not need that explanation to determine his complaint.
Like the investigator said, the matters Mr M has raised about historical and allegedly 
ongoing issues with SL and/or his account are beyond the scope of the complaint he 
presented to SL and referred to us  so they are beyond the remit of this decision.
At this stage of our process  that is, the ombudsmans decision stage, which Mr M 
expressly asked for  the task is to determine a complaint and issue a decision. It is 
not to mediate settlement. I note the settlement proposal that he has set out (as 
quoted above). However, unless there is a finding of financial loss in his case and, if 
so, unless contents of his proposal are relevant to that finding (and/or to redress for 
any such loss), the proposal will not be addressed.
The effects of the trade on 13 May (with relevant reference(s) to the state of the 
account previously), of the corrections on 14 May, of the events in between and of 
the events subsequent to the corrections are mainly set out in undisputable 
documentary evidence of the activities in Mr Ms trading account. This body of 
evidence is as it is and will be considered as it is. I appreciate that both parties have 
offered explanations to guide this service in interpreting the evidence and, where 
necessary and relevant, such guidance will be taken in this decision  but where no 
interpretation is needed (where the account statements are clear) none will be sought 
or taken. 
A first step is to establish the facts surrounding the complaint related events, and I 
consider that this primarily relates to activities in the account between 12 May (the 
day before the erroneous trade was executed) and 14 May (the day of the 
corrections and of the second phase of close-outs). As Mr M has made specific 
submissions on his account on 11 May I am prepared to extend the period for my 
consideration to begin on this date. He has also made more general submissions 
about his trading activities up to 90 days before the event (and, it appears, even up to 
the inception of the account). If my requisite considerations lead me in this direction I 
will follow, otherwise I do not consider that treatment of the outstanding complaint 
issues that I summarised above is about analysing months of Mr Ms trading prior to 
the event.
The account statement ending 11 May confirms that the account at 22:59 hours on 
this date had B of 36,832.52 EUR (including a positive crystallised P/L of 66.44 
EUR), a negative floating (uncrystallised) P/L of -34,711.64 EUR and E of 2,120.88 
EUR. This does not match Mr Ms description of an E value/gain of 24,502.69 EUR 
on 11 May that was subsequently lost because of the events on 13/14 May. If his 
description relates to an intra-day state of the account that is not clear and, in any 
case, I consider that for the purposes of addressing the outstanding complaint issues 
and, in particular, considering the impact (if any) of the events from 13 May onwards 
compared to how the account previously was, it is the closing state of the account on 
11 May (and on 12 May), prior to the events on 13 May, that is important. There is no 
allegation that SL is responsible for any events prior to 13 May.At close on 12 May, the account had B of 36,951.93 EUR (including crystallised 
profits of 119.41 EUR), a negative floating P/L of -34,764.43 EUR and E of 2,187.50 
EUR. At close on 13 May, the account had B of 2,113.77 EUR after crystallised 
losses of -34,838.16, no floating P/L and 2,113.77 EUR in E. At close on 14 May, the 
account had B of 9,752.66 EUR after crystallised losses of -27,524.30 EUR, a 
negative floating P/L of -7,723.82 EUR and E of 2,028.80 EUR. 
The above supports SLs argument about the true state of, and true value in, Mr Ms 
account during these dates. I do not accept any part of Mr Ms submissions that says 
or suggests that value in, or lost from, his account is defined by anything other than 
the E in the account. The E value is the figure that reflects the full picture of the 
account whereby the B (inclusive of cash and any net crystallised P/L) and the 
floating P/L (which inevitably impacts upon B at all times up to crystallisation) are 
both taken into account. I also do not accept any claim or suggestion that the 
significant floating net loss at close on 12 May, which was broadly around the same 
level as it was at close on 11 May, did not play a role in the events thereafter. It did 
and, as SL says, it was a significant net floating loss that pre-existed, and had 
nothing to do with, its responsibilities on 13 May and 14 May. 
The event on 13 May happened and Mr M mitigated its effects on his account on this 
date as the investigator summarised. SLs corrections happened on 14 May. It is not 
disputed that it cancelled the erroneous 5 LOTS trade, so that was a valid and fair 
correction. The trades that were closed out because of the margin breach caused by 
the 5 LOTS trade were restored, as agreed with Mr M. This too was a valid and fair 
correction. SLs use of the temporary 50,000 EUR deposit does not appear to be  
and should not be  controversial, its purpose was reasonably based on the need to 
carry out the corrections with enough E (bolstered by the temporarily deposited cash) 
to avoid triggering a close-out in the course of the corrections.
SL was wrong in its failure to update Mr M on its correction activities and in its failure 
to give him notice once that was completed. Particularly so because there is 
evidence that it told him he could not trade in the account during the process and 
because there is also evidence of him chasing SL for such updates and notice 
(without response from SL). It still needs to be established that, as alleged, this led to 
a loss and I address this later. First, and in this context, I can see how the part of 
SLs argument that says or suggests Mr M had an overarching contractual 
responsibility during this period to manage his [execution-only] account could be 
perceived as unfair, given that he was told by SL not to trade in the account during 
this period. However, as I address next, in a wider context the argument seems more 
evenly balanced.
Given the notable weight that Mr M has given to what appears to have been a tried 
and tested trading strategy he used and abided by diligently, and his evidence that 
revenue from his trading sustained his livelihood, it is reasonable to conclude that he 
was up-to-date and well informed about his trading and that he would have known 
there was a potential problem to manage in the significant negative floating P/L on 11 
May and 12 May. That potential problem was not just limited to how the markets for 
the relevant trades could move against them and what impact that would have on the 
floating P/L position in the account, it also extended to consideration of whether (or 
not) there was enough E and AM to sustain them (and to help them survive any 
negative movements in the accounts floating P/L status). It appears to be SLs point 
 or, if not, it is a reasonable point nevertheless  that it was for Mr M to have been 
managing this potential problem prior to the events on 13 May (which, I gather from the gist of what he has said, he seems to have been doing); and that as he 
negotiated the corrections with SL on 14 May he ought reasonably to have been 
mindful about continuing to do this and mindful of the need to ensure there was 
enough E (and AM) in the account after the corrections to maintain the trades. I am 
not persuaded that this was something SL should have foreseen for him  it could 
have, but in the circumstances of this case, I am not convinced that it was obliged to. 
It was his responsibility to manage his trades, he knew about their history (including 
their place/role in the overall trading strategy he has referred to) and the significant 
negative floating P/L issue, and he would have known what could potentially happen 
to them after restoration. At the very least, I consider that he should have raised and 
resolved all this with SL as part of the corrections arrangement and, arguably, should 
have funded the account with cash as part of the overall corrections exercise, in 
order to ensure there was enough E (and AM) capacity for the restored trades after 
the corrections. He knew the trades, he knew they would be restored after the 
corrections, he knew they carried a pre-existing negative net floating P/L position and 
he knew this would become a live issue immediately after restoration, so he should 
have planned ahead for this before the corrections began. 
Mr M has not established that he did the above.
Mr Ms counter argument will be that he could have managed the matter after the 
corrections if he was given the updates and notice from SL at the time that he did not 
get. The problem that ensued at the time appears to be clear from the account 
statements. At 15:00:34 hours the temporary 50,000 EUR deposit was withdrawn 
and that seems to have marked the end of the corrections exercise. The markets for 
some of the restored trades moved against them and from around 15:03 hours the 
second phase of close-outs began  and continued up to around 15:26 hours. Mr Ms 
argument will be that the three minutes in between correction and close-out would 
have been enough for him to rebalance the account, but instead he continued to wait 
for a response from SL thereafter before he took the initiative to resume trading in the 
account, at which point the damage had been done. 
His argument therefore rests on the notion of trading his way out of the risk of the 
second phase of close-outs, whereas my consideration relates to the notion of trying 
to avoid taking that risk (or reducing that risk). I consider the latter to be more 
relevant than the former because, as set out above, there was time and opportunity 
to do it as part of the corrections arrangement. It is also not clear precisely how Mr M 
would have traded his way out of the risk or if three minutes would have been 
enough time to do so. He says all that was needed was one transaction. However, he 
would have had, at or around 15:00:34 hours on 14 May, an account with E (and 
potentially AM) of around 2,000 EUR, restored trades with around 35,000 EUR in net 
floating losses and markets for some or many of those trades moving, overall, 
against them. With a substantial negative floating P/L about to trigger another phase 
of close-outs the options would arguably have been limited  being, mainly, to fund 
the account and feed E (and AM) or to close trades and hopefully ease pressure on 
E (and AM). He has not claimed that he tried to fund, but was prevented from 
funding, the account, and the opening of new trades would seem unlikely as that 
would risk consuming more E and bringing forward a margin breach and close-outs. 
It is possible that Mr Ms strategy, perhaps starting with the one transaction he has 
referred to, would have begun with closure of a trade(s) (to ease pressure) and then 
followed with other actions but I do not have enough evidence to draw conclusions 
on that. In contrast, I have evidence supporting the conclusion that, on balance and 
primarily, he should have forward planned his management of the restored trades 
before they were restored and within the corrections arrangement, and that should 
have been done by funding the account.This finding lends itself to my consideration of the fact that SL subsequently offered 
Mr M a repeat of the corrections exercise and this time SL was the one that proposed 
funding of the account for the reasons I have addressed above. Unreasonably, I 
consider, he declined this offer and he says he viewed it as a form of an elaborate 
scam. He made the following counter proposal at the time  
The investigator expressed some understanding about how he felt about the matter 
at the time, but she concluded that the rationale behind his decision (to decline the 
offer) is unclear. I too can understand Mr M would have been unhappy with events at 
the time, but this was a proposal to fund his own account for the sake of having safer 
terms for the restoration of his own trades, so potential for a scam does not appear to 
have existed. SLs good faith in trying to repair the matter had already been tested 
(and shown) in the corrections exercise (and its use of the temporary 50,000 EUR 
deposit) it had conducted. It is not clear why Mr M mistrusted SL in this proposal and 
not clear that he was reasonable in doing so. On balance, he should have accepted 
the proposal and he cannot reasonably blame SL for the effects of not doing so. It 
also appears that it was his counter proposal that was unduly elaborate, it seems to 
have gone beyond the corrections that were fair and necessary and I am not 
persuaded that it was a reasonable counter proposal.
It follows from the above that, on balance, I do not consider it reasonable to hold SL 
responsible for the aftermath of the corrections exercise. I also consider the exercise 
to have been a fair response from SL and that, in strict terms, it corrected the 
erroneous trade of 13 May and the close-outs caused by that trade and adjusted the 
account to reflect both. 
Mr M has made submissions about how the events have disrupted progress in his 
pre-existing and long-term trading strategy from when they happened to date. I do 
not explore this further because even if his submissions about a disruption are 
correct, the findings above mean SL cannot reasonably be held responsible for that. 
First, as the investigator said, the corrections (in isolation) did not lose him money. 
As summarised above, his accounts E  and therefore its true value to him  on 11, 
12, 13 and 14 May (that is, before and after the corrections) remained roughly around 
the same level and the slight differences were caused mainly by market movements 
the account was exposed to. In addition, there is of course the matter of the close-
outs on 13 May and I understand Mr Ms argument that crystallising floating P/L 
should be at his discretion as the trader, but he is aware that such a right is also 
subject to legitimate (and automatic) close-outs in the account. What happened on 
13 May was not a legitimate set of close-outs, but SL already conceded that at the 
time and repaired them, so it was an error that was fixed and it was not a case of SL 
intentionally depriving Mr M of his rights as a trader. The second point is that the 
account was restored, as the comparisons between 11 and 14 May show. The 
second phase of close-outs happened. I am not persuaded that SL was to blame for 
that, but even I am wrong in that finding  which, on balance, I do not consider I am  
and even if SL was to blame for that, SL proposed another set of corrections (on 
safer terms) to repair the second phase of close-outs too. That was reasonable, but 
Mr M unreasonably declined the offer. Overall and on balance, the account was 
restored on 14 May, that would have corrected any disruption to the trading strategy 
caused by the events of 13 May and any disruption that happened after the 
restoration was not SLs responsibility.
Having said all the above, I too acknowledge that Mr M faced trouble, upset and 
inconvenience in the matter. The issue about transformation of the trade from 0.05 
LOT to 5 LOTS is not clear, but it is clear his experience in the case could have been 
avoided, but for the platforms error in executing the trade. In this respect, and 
including the upset caused by SLs failure to update him during the corrections 
process, he should be compensated for the trouble, upset and inconvenience he 
experienced. I consider this should also be done in the context of SL resolving the 
matter a day after it happened, so the effects of the part of the experience caused by 
SL were not unduly prolonged. Overall, I agree with the investigators proposal that 
Mr M should be awarded the EUR equivalent of £550 for this.
Putting things right
For the trouble, upset and inconvenience caused to Mr M, SL must pay him the EUR 
equivalent of £550. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint but only with regards to the trouble, 
upset and inconvenience that the subject of the complaint caused him. I order Swissquote 
Ltd to pay him the EUR equivalent of £550 for this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman