DRN-1326064
 
The complaint
Mr J has complained about Assurant General Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J made a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy after his phone was damaged. 
Unfortunately the refurbished replacement phones that he received had problems and had to 
be replaced on two separate occasions. 
Assurant acknowledged its service couldve been better and offered £40 compensation. But 
Mr J remained unhappy and complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. She thought Assurant 
should waive the excess (£79) in acknowledgement of the poor service Mr J had received. 
Assurant disagreed and said the excess was due under the policy and thought its offer of 
£40 was fair, especially as it had waived some of its validation procedures in order to 
advance things as quick as possible for Mr J. A second investigator looked into the 
complaint again and acknowledged that the excess was always due under the claim. But he 
thought £79 was a fair amount of compensation.
As Assurant didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I know Mr J feels he shouldve got a new phone. But as the investigator explained the policy 
allows Assurant to provide a refurbished phone even if it is a different colour. However, that 
phone should be fit for purpose and Assurant has accepted that the phones it provided Mr J 
werent good enough and were faulty. As this is accepted I dont propose to go over the 
detail of this. Instead I will focus on the key remaining issue in this complaint, the level of 
compensation that Mr J should receive in acknowledgement of the poor service. 
Assurant has acknowledged its service shouldve been a lot better here which is good to 
see. But I dont think £40 is sufficient to cover the issues and problems Mr J had with two 
replacement phones. I know Assurant feels that the fact it waived the validation process to 
speed things up should be taken into account when considering compensation. But Ive no 
reason to doubt that Mr Js phones were faulty, and I dont think it would be fair to bring this 
into any compensation consideration. And even if I did I dont think the fact it tried to speed 
things up meant that Mr J wasnt inconvenienced, although he may have got a replacement 
phone quicker. So, I think Assurant should pay Mr J £79 compensation, as opposed to £40, for the clear 
hassle and stress caused in providing two phones that were of a poor standard. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant 
General Insurance Limited to pay Mr J £79 (total) compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman