DRN-3334933
The complaint
Mr B complains about problems with a loan and credit card after he applied for a payment
holiday with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in a provisional 
decision. I said: 
At the end of March 2020 Mr B called HSBC and asked for support due to the pandemic. A 
temporary arrangement was agreed for three months and Mr B was advised someone 
would be in touch to a new payment deferral option in the following 10 days. But HSBC 
didnt get back to Mr B and his credit card and loan payments were recorded as missed on 
his credit file.
On 30 June 2020 Mr B spoke with HSBC and made a payment of £170 to clear the credit 
card arrears. Mr B raised a complaint.
About two weeks later, Mr B contacted HSBC because it had taken a loan payment. 
HSBC paid Mr B £50. HSBC paid Mr B another £50 a short time later after it incorrectly 
closed his complaint. HSBC issued a more comprehensive final response on 29 July 
2020 and paid Mr B a further £150 and agreed to amend his credit file.
In September 2020 HSBC paid Mr B a further £150 compensation following delays and 
problems contacting him.
There were further delays and problems updating Mr Bs credit file. Following lots of follow 
up discussions with HSBC, it sent Mr B a final response on 12 January 2021 and 
apologised for the service provided. HSBC paid Mr B a further £200. The total award at this 
point was
£600.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and explained his credit file was still wrong and 
that hed received worrying letters and contact from HSBC about the status of his accounts. 
During the investigation, it came to light that HSBC had only amended Mr Bs credit file with 
one of the three main credit reference agencies. As a result, adverse information remained 
in place with the remaining two credit reference agencies. In December 2021 HSBC
confirmed all the agreed amendments had been made.
The investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint and said HSBC should remove any arrears, 
adverse or default information recorded on Mr Bs credit file after March 2020. But the 
investigator thought the compensation HSBC had paid Mr B totalling £600 was fair. Mr B 
asked to appeal and pointed out the length of time the issues had persisted for. Mr B also 
explained the situation had been particularly distressing for him as he works in financial 
services and has to ensure he maintains good credit. Mr B said he didnt think the £600 
hed received up to January 2021 took into account the following delays in correcting his 
credit file and asked to appeal. As a result, Mr Bs case has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above. Our investigator has 
provided a more detailed version in their findings. And Mr Bs response to the investigator 
relates to the level of compensation and overall impact of the issues raised on him rather 
than the timeline of his case. I want to assure all parties that Ive read and considered 
everything on file and am fully aware of the circumstances surrounding Mr Bs case.
On the face of it, HSBC has paid a reasonably large sum of £600 in compensation to Mr B. 
But, I think its important to note that HSBC has upheld several separate complaints in this 
case. So whilst the compensation paid to date may seem substantial, it covers a range of 
problems Mr B experienced and errors on his credit file. HSBC says those errors have now 
been fixed and apologised that only one out of three credit reference agencies was 
updated. I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Bs case.
I think the £600 compensation HSBC paid was fair up to the point it issued its final 
response on 12 January 2021. Its clear Mr B had to spend a lot of time trying to make 
sense of what had happened and contacting HSBC. And I think its reasonable to say that 
HSBC didnt always seem to grasp the extent of the issues raised or the problems Mr B 
was experiencing. Further, HSBC has confirmed it failed to correct Mr Bs credit file with all 
the credit reference agencies as promised.
Its clear Mr B has had to spend further time and effort trying to resolve the issues raised 
beyond HSBCs 12 January 2021 final response. Mr B has pointed out he continued to 
receive contact from HSBC about the position of the accounts in question up to November 
2021. In addition, HSBC took nearly a year longer to remove adverse information from Mr 
Bs credit file than agreed. And given the nature of Mr Bs profession, I can understand why 
delays correcting his credit file were particularly concerning. Im satisfied the way HSBC 
handled Mr Bs accounts and queries unfairly lengthened the time its taken to resolve 
matters and caused him additional distress and inconvenience that isnt reflected in the 
£600 its paid to date.
As a result, I intend to increase the compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr B. In my view, a further payment of £350 fairly reflects the additional trouble 
and upset caused to Mr B as set out above.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Both parties responded to confirm theyre willing to accept 
and proceed in line with the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no parties have provided new information for me to consider I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Bs complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to settle as 
follows: 
- If it hasnt done so already, ensure no missed payments, arrangements, defaults or 
other adverse credit are recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the credit card 
and loan from March 2020 to date
- Pay Mr B a further £350 (taking the total award to £950) for the distress and 
inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman