DRN-2414107
The complaint
Mr G complains about the length of time it took for Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) to repair his car after a claim on his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs Gs six-month old car was damaged in an accident in August 2019 and Mr G made a 
claim on his policy. RSA took the car for repairs, and provided a courtesy car, but then found 
that one part wasnt available. Three months after the accident, the repairer said the part 
was on back order. The repairer chased the manufacturer and the part was ordered in June 
2020 and the repair completed in October 2020. 
Mr G had asked for the car to be written off as the part wasnt available. But RSA declined 
this. It said it wasnt responsible for the manufacturers delays. Mr G bought a new car due to 
the delays. Mr G was also unhappy with the courtesy car provided. RSA said this was 
provided in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. But RSA did agree that its 
communication could have been better, and it offered Mr G £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset this caused. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought RSA 
hadnt dealt with the claim promptly and fairly. She thought the delay in the claim was 
unreasonable and caused by the part not being manufactured. And so she thought RSA 
should have written the car off on 23 January 2020 when it knew the part wasnt available. 
So she thought RSA should pay Mr G the market value of his car at the time of the accident, 
with interest. She thought the compensation for poor communication was fair. 
RSA replied that it wasnt responsible for the delays in the part becoming available. And it 
said it was Mr Gs decision to buy a new car. It wanted an ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr G feels frustrated that it took 14 months for his car to be repaired. 
He waited four months before he bought a new car. And I can see that he thought RSA 
should have written his car off due to lack of availability of the part needed for its repair. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. I can see in the policy booklet 
that how claims will be settled is stated on page 16:
B. How we will settle your claim
If the loss or damage is covered under your policy, we will settle your claim as explained 
below.
If your car is lost or damaged we:
 may choose to repair the damage or pay the amount of loss or damage;
 may decide to use recycled parts or parts or accessories that are not supplied by the 
original manufacturer.
 if your car is lost and never found, or if in our view, it cannot be repaired for a reasonable 
cost, we will pay either:
a) the market value; or
b) the cost of a replacement new car (Sections 2B and 3B)
Should we choose to pay the market value or purchase a replacement new car, your car will 
become our property.
So the options for RSA are to repair the car, pay for its loss or replace it. It decided to repair 
the car. RSA assessed the repairs required to the car and decided the car was repairable. I 
think that was fair and reasonable as it was based an engineers assessment. But, as our 
investigator has already explained, insurers are required to deal with claims promptly and 
fairly. So wed expect the repairs to be carried out in a timely manner. 
The repairs were started in August 2019 but then it was noted that one additional part was 
needed. This wasnt ordered until November 2019. I cant see from the file notes why there 
was such a delay. The part wasnt delivered as expected and RSA chased this up and tried 
a different supplier. But it seems that the part wasnt available because Mr Gs car was a 
new model. And later it became apparent that the part was superseded by a different part 
and this was yet to be manufactured. 
I think its not uncommon for there to be some delays in parts being available, but this is 
usually resolved in a matter of weeks. And I think in Mr Gs circumstances, RSA knew on 23 
January 2020 that there was no telling when the missing part would be manufactured and 
supplied. I think that at this point it should have reasonably decided that a repair wasnt 
possible in a timely manner and so the car should be written off. 
Instead, Mr G had to wait a further nine months for his car to be repaired. He was provided 
with a hire car in the interim. I can see that the car didnt entirely meet his needs. But it was 
what the policy provided. So I cant say this was unfair or unreasonable. Mr G said he was 
unhappy with the cars condition. But I think Mr G should have raised this concern with RSA 
at the time for it to rectify the issue.
If RSA had decided to write off the car, it should then have either replaced it or paid Mr G its 
pre-accident market value under the policy terms and conditions. I can see that the cars 
repairs were less than 60% of its value at 23 January 2020. So I think RSA doesnt have to 
pay the new car replacement benefit under the policy terms and conditions. 
In that case, I think RSA should pay Mr G the market value of the car at the time of the 
accident. And, as hes been without his money for some time, I think it should reasonably 
add interest to this amount from the date of the claim until the date of settlement. 
RSA has agreed that its communication with Mr G has been poor. It offered him £150 
compensation for this. I can see that it could have provided better updates on the repairs 
rather than Mr G having to call it or the repairer. And so I think this compensation is fair and 
reasonable and in keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances. Ive seen that Mr G 
declined this offer. But I think RSA should honour it still.
 Putting things rightI think RSA hasnt treated Mr G fairly or reasonably as it didnt complete the repairs to his car 
in a timely manner. I think it should:
1. Pay Mr G the market value of his car at the date of the accident;
2. Add interest to this payment at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the 
claim to the date of settlement;
3. Pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level 
of communication, as its already offered to do. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires RSA to take off tax from this interest. RSA must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman