DRN-2478586
The complaint
Mrs G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave her misleading information about how much 
interest would accrue on her savings account.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs G opened a savings account with HSBC. It had an interest rate of 5% Annual 
Equivalent Rate (AER) for a fixed 12 month term. She made an initial deposit of £25 followed 
by eleven monthly deposits of £250, resulting in a closing balance of £2,775.
At the end of the 12 months, Mrs G was disappointed to learn that the interest accrued on 
the account was less than she expected it to be. She complained to HSBC who said the 
interest had been calculated correctly.
 
Mrs G remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked in to her concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. He thought HSBC 
had calculated the interest on Mrs Gs account correctly and also hadnt done anything to 
mislead her.
Mrs G disagreed with our investigators view. She said she now understood how the interest 
of £69.61 had been calculated. But she thought the information HSBC had provided was 
misleading. So, her complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC has a responsibility to treat its customers fairly and communicate with them in a way 
which is clear, fair and not misleading.
 
Mrs G says she was expecting to receive interest of £138.75 on her savings account at the 
end of the term. This is 5% of £2,775. Although she now understands how the interest she 
actually received (£69.61) was calculated, she thinks HSBC should have provided clearer 
information when she opened the account. 
The terms and conditions of the account say interest is calculated daily and is credited at the 
end of the 12 month fixed term. For Mrs G to receive the £138.75 she was expecting, the full 
£2,775 would have needed to be in the account for the entire 12 month period. But from 
what both parties have said, this wasnt the case. Mrs G deposited £25 the first month, 
followed by £250 each month in the eleven months that followed. 
Mrs G feels an example of how interest is calculated on HSBCs website would be beneficial 
to its customers. I can see HSBC gives some examples on its website to illustrate Monthly 
Deposits with the Interest rate (AER), the Total Deposits after 12 months and the 
Balance at end of 12 months. Ive also checked an archived version of HSBCs website 
from around the time Mrs G opened the account and I can see similar examples were given.
While these examples dont show specifically how the interest is calculated, I think they do 
make it clear that the interest isnt based on the amount in the account at the end of the 12 
months. Its usual for interest to only accrue for the time that money is in an account. And I 
cant see that HSBC did anything to mislead Mrs G into believing otherwise.
I appreciate it was disappointing for Mrs G to receive less interest than she was expecting. 
But Im satisfied that HSBC gave her clear information about the account and has treated 
her fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman