DRN-2610335
The complaint
Mrs L says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs L bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
The credit agreement Mrs L signed was completed to show that she wanted the PPI. 
So I think she wouldve realised she had a choice about buying the cover. From what 
Ive seen, I think AXA made Mrs L aware the PPI was optional and she chose to buy 
it. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Mrs L might have had to 
cover her repayments.
But even if AXA had recommended the policy, it doesnt look as though it was 
unsuitable for Mrs L based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Even 
though she says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, the PPI wouldve 
paid out in addition to those benefits. The PPI wouldve allowed Mrs L to use her 
employer benefits to pay for other expenses.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs L would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ive noted what Mrs L has said about not being able to claim on the policy while she was on 
maternity leave. I accept that AXA may not have pointed out this exclusion to Mrs L. But 
even if it had pointed it out to her, on balance Im not persuaded it wouldve changed Mrs Ls 
decision to buy the policy. Even though Mrs L couldnt claim disability benefit during 
maternity leave, the policy wouldve still covered her for any other illnesses she needed to 
claim for. And so on balance I think Mrs L wouldve considered the policy couldve been 
useful to her.   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman