DRN-3910594
The complaint
Mr M complains Hastings Insurance Services Limited cancelled his car insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr M took out a car insurance policy though Hastings, a broker. He 
agreed to pay the annual premium in monthly instalments and so Hastings arranged for him 
to take out a finance agreement with it.
In June 2022, Hastings tried to collect the monthly instalment, but it was told the direct debit 
mandate had been cancelled. It contacted Mr M on seven different occasions in June to ask 
him to reinstate the direct debit and make the missed payment. It contacted Mr M in several 
different ways on each occasion including text message, post and email but didnt hear 
anything back from him or receive any payment. 
On 3 July, Hastings cancelled Mr Ms car insurance policy and the next day it wrote to him to 
let him know. It said Mr M still owed £50.23 on the finance agreement which included a 
cancellation fee of £45.
Mr M explained he didnt realise the direct debit had been cancelled. And his phone had 
been cut off due to financial difficulties which meant he wasnt able to receive text messages 
or emails and he didnt receive any letters from Hastings. Mr M says when he did get his 
phone reconnected, he saw the emails and got in touch with Hastings on 5 July but he was 
told it was too late.
Mr M complained to Hastings as he was unhappy his policy had been cancelled and shared 
information about his financial situation. Hastings said if Mr M had contacted it sooner to 
advise of his financial difficulties, it wouldve been able to put a hold on the cancellation. But, 
as he didnt do this, it was right to cancel his policy in the circumstances. 
Mr M came to this service. Our Investigator considered matters and thought Hastings was 
within its rights to cancel the insurance policy when it did. However, they felt that, once Mr M 
had told it about his financial difficulties, it failed to react with sympathy and understanding or 
treat Mr M fairly. As a result, they asked Hastings to remove the £45 cancellation fee. 
Hastings disagreed. It said:
- Mr Ms financial difficulties were shared after the cancellation. 
- There wasnt a sufficient reason why it should waive a correctly charged a fee which 
had been set out in the terms and conditions. 
- The only issue this service should be considering in this matter is whether Hastings 
acted fairly when it cancelled the policy and the Investigator had concluded it did.
Our Investigator explained to Hastings our inquisitorial remit allows us to consider what we 
feel a business shouldve looked at when dealing with a complaint. This means were 
expected to do more than just look at a complaint as it's written or explained to us. And, 
having done so, they took into account the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) guidance in 
relation to the cancellation fee. The FCA guidance sets out that waiving cancellation fees is 
something a business should consider where they become aware a consumer is in financial 
difficulties. And, Hastings had the opportunity to waive the cancellation fee but chose not to 
do this, instead pursuing Mr M for a debt of £50.23. This is when the Investigator considered 
the fair and reasonable thing for Hastings to do would be to remove the £45 cancellation fee.
Hastings responded to say it doesnt feel waiving the fee is treating customers fairly. It has a 
process to aid customers in financial difficulty and followed this in Mr Ms case. It also 
considers a decision to waive the fee for Mr M unfair as it wouldnt do this for others.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the Investigator reached a fair outcome here. So, I uphold Mr 
Ms complaint in this matter and require Hastings to waive the cancellation fee of £45 along 
with any additional interest and charges accrued due on it. Ill explain why.
Policy cancellation
Hastings was informed that Mr M had cancelled the direct debit mandate. As a result, he 
failed to make his monthly payments in June and July 2022. This meant his finance 
agreement was in arrears. 
Under its terms of business, Hastings is entitled to cancel the insurance policy where a 
consumer doesnt make one of the monthly payments. However, it needs to do so acting 
fairly and reasonably. Given the significant implications of cancelling an insurance policy, Id 
expect to see Hastings give Mr M an opportunity to sort things out before it cancelled the 
policy. This is what it did - Hastings wrote to Mr M about the missed payment and cancelled 
direct debit mandate on seven separate occasions, generally using three different methods 
of communication each time. 
Taking the above into account, I consider Hastings acted fairly and reasonably when it 
cancelled Mr Ms car insurance policy on 3 July 2022.
Cancellation fee
I dont consider Hastings decision to continue to charge the cancellation fee it had applied 
on 3 July, after it spoke to Mr M on 5 July, to be fair and reasonable.  
Firstly, I think its important to explain it's our job to take an impartial look at complaints. So, 
it follows we must look at them in the same way we expect a business to, that is, by looking 
at the substance of a complaint. Its my view the cancellation fee is part of the whole picture 
of Mr Ms complaint about Hastings cancelling his car insurance policy. The Investigator sent 
her first view to Hastings in November 2022, and it has been communicating with them 
about this since then so Im also satisfied I have the relevant information to make a finding 
on it in this decision. 
The letters sent by the FCA in 2022 to insurance industry CEOs reminded firms to consider 
a range of options for consumers in financial difficulties, including cancelling any charges. 
This guidance wasnt new  it builds on existing FCA rules and principles including the 
following.- The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) sets out examples of treating a customer 
with forbearance and due consideration, which includes a firm considering waiving or 
cancelling any further interest or charges where, otherwise, the debt would escalate. 
- PRIN 6 states 'A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly' (FCA, Principles for Business).
Considering the FCA letters, CONC and PRIN 6, its my view Hastings shouldve waived the 
cancellation fee of £45 when it spoke to Mr M on 5 July 2022. This is because of the 
financial difficulties he described and the fact that adding this charge would only lead to the 
debt of someone who is already in financial difficulties escalating further.
Hastings refers to other ways to help consumers in financial difficulties. Considering Mr Ms 
policy had already been cancelled, I consider it likely these had limited application to his 
situation. Even so, the guidance is clear - cancelling or waiving a charge is one of the 
options Hastings shouldve considered. If it had, I consider it fair and reasonable for it to 
have waived the fee. 
I note Hastings has drawn parallels with cancellation fees it may seek to charge in other 
matters. But we look at the facts of each individual complaint in deciding whether we think 
the matter has been handled fairly and reasonably. This is therefore a decision to require 
Hastings to waive the cancellation fee it has continued to charge Mr M in this particular 
matter after discovering his financial difficulties and in light of the FCA guidance.
Putting things right
To put things right, Hastings Insurance Services Limited must waive the cancellation fee of 
£45 - as though this had been done on 5 July 2022 - along with any additional interest and 
charges that have accrued due on it.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint. To put things right, Hastings Insurance Services Limited must 
take the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman