DRN-3426927
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as H, complains that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd 
cancelled its retail catering policy and declined its claim for flood damage. 
The director of H, whom Ill refer to as Mr S, brings the complaint on Hs behalf. 
What happened
 H took out a retail catering policy with China Taiping in May 2014. In May 2019 the policy 
lapsed due to Hs business being closed. The policy was reinstated when the business 
reopened in July 2020. Following floods in July 2021, H made a claim against the policy after 
its premises suffered flood damage. 
During the investigation of the flood claim, China Taiping found that the directors of H failed 
to disclose that a business which Mr S had previously been involved with went into 
liquidation in October 2020 with over £100,000 outstanding debts. They also found a CCJ 
against H from 2017 with a debt of just over £300 which remained unsatisfied and hadnt 
been disclosed either. 
China Taiping acknowledged that while the liquidation was disclosed via an email in April 
2019, Mr S didnt disclose the substantial debt involved. If these material facts were 
disclosed, they would not have continued to provide cover because the risk wasnt within 
their underwriting appetite. China Taiping therefore said they cancelled Hs policy from the 
date of the liquidation, October 2020, and as a result there was no policy in place to deal 
with the flood claim. 
China Taiping also said that they believed H would have been aware of the substantial debt 
involved in the liquidation and therefore deemed this non-disclosure to be either deliberate or 
reckless and therefore did not return any premium as a result of the policy cancellation. 
Mr S said he didnt know about the outstanding CCJ and that there was no debt involved in 
the liquidation in 2020. He explained that the liquidation took place because the landlord of 
the premises wanted to take the site back and therefore it was advised by his accountant to 
liquidate the business to bring it to an end and he believed this was standard accounting 
practise. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think China Taiping had acted unfairly. 
She said in Summary: 
H was under a duty to make a fair presentation of risk at each renewal following the 
liquidation. 
She acknowledged that there was an email from April 2019 where H confirmed that a 
business was liquidated with no debts. 
On review of the liquidation statement she felt that H should have been aware of the 
outstanding debt. She also said H ought to have known about the CCJ from 2017 
too.  
She was satisfied that had H informed China Taiping of the outstanding debt involved 
in the liquidation and the CCJ, they wouldnt have provided cover. 
She concluded that China Taiping acted fairly by avoiding the policy from the date 
the liquidation ended and declining Hs claim, due to its failure to disclose the 
information about the outstanding debt and the CCJ. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary 
he said, he did inform China Taiping about the liquidation and there was no debt. He also 
said the CCJ was recorded in error, it has now been set aside by the courts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will not be the outcome H was hoping for but, having considered the matter
carefully, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint centres on China Taipings decision to cancel the policy and reject 
Hs claim. 
From what I understand, the liquidation in question started in 2018 and ended in October 
2020. The CCJ which China Taiping says H also failed to disclose was dated 2017.  
When considering whether China Taiping acted fairly, the starting point is the Insurance Act 
2015. Under this Act, commercial policyholders have a duty to make a fair presentation of 
the risk to the insurer when taking out and renewing a policy. 
The Insurance Act says disclosure needs to be made as follows:
disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to
know, or
failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a
prudent insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of
revealing those material circumstances.
For China Taiping to take any action at all they need to show H didnt do this and that it 
made whats known as a qualifying breach.
Under the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the
customer because they would either not have sold them the policy, or would have done so
on different terms.
The statement of fact that was completed on behalf of H in July 2020, included the following 
statement:
Material facts should be disclosed in a reasonably clear and accessible manner and 
you may want to keep records of members of your senior management and 
individuals responsible for arranging your insurance so that you can easily access 
this information and disclose their knowledge as appropriate. 
The statement of fact also asked the following questions: Has the proprietor, partner or director of this business, whether in a personal
capacity, or as the proprietor, partner if director of any other business, ever:-
been declared bankrupt or insolvent, or the subject of bankruptcy or insolvency 
proceeding
been served with a County Court Judgement (CCJ) or Scottish Decree
been involved in a business which went into administration, administrative
receivership, liquidation or entered into either a company or individual voluntary
arrangement with creditors
The above questions had all been answered no.
Hs policy terms and conditions also say:
(7) DUTY OF FAIR PRESENTATION
You must make a fair presentation of the risk to the company at inception, renewal
and variation of the policy.
a) In the absence of such fair presentation, the company may avoid the policy and
refuse to pay any claims where any failure to make a fair presentation is:
i. deliberate or reckless; or
ii. of such other nature that, if you had made a fair presentation, the company would
not have underwritten the risk the company will return the premium paid by you 
unless the failure to make a fair presentation is a deliberate or reckless
Although the questions in the statement of fact had been answered no, Mr S had informed 
China Taiping of the liquidation via email in April 2019 but, he said there were no debts 
involved. He said he hadnt told China Taiping about the CCJ because he wasnt aware of it 
and he said that it has now been set aside. 
China Taiping said both the non-disclosed CCJ and the liquidation debt would have required 
referral to its underwriting management, who has confirmed it would not have offered cover 
under either scenario. However, it has tried to be as fair as possible to H and therefore 
taking into consideration that it discovered the CCJ after the liquidation, it made the decision 
to focus on what it believes to be the most severe of the two, i.e. the liquidation due to the 
substantially higher amount of debt involved. China Taiping therefore cancelled Hs policy 
from the date of the liquidation. As China Taiping isnt relying on the CCJ for the cancellation 
of the policy, I havent made a finding on it. Ive therefore focused my decision on the non-
disclosure of the liquidation debts and whether a fair presentation of risk had been made in 
2020 and at renewal in 2021.  
Im aware that an email was sent to China Taiping in April 2019 about the liquidation 
however it stated there were no debts involved. A fair presentation of the risk should also 
have been made at renewal in May 2019 however it looks like the policy lapsed this year due 
the business being closed, and it was taken out again in July 2020 when the business 
reopened. At this point a new statement of fact was completed on behalf of H. 
Therefore, a fair presentation of the risk should have been made by H when the policy was 
taken out in July 2020 because the duty of fair presentation applies at inception as well as 
renewal. 
China Taiping have provided information which demonstrates that the directors of H, 
including Mr S, signed a liquidation statement dated 2018 which showed clearly that there was a substantial amount of outstanding debts. 
Taking Mr S circumstances into consideration  a director of a business which went into 
liquidation, who had signed the liquidation statement which showed the outstanding debts, I 
believe he ought to have known about the debts. He therefore should have disclosed this to 
China Taiping in July 2020 and at the renewal in 2021.  
While I appreciate the reasons for why Mr S states the company was liquidated and that a 
substantial amount of debt was linked to H, it doesnt change the fact there was outstanding 
debts at the time of the liquidation which Mr S ought to have been aware of and should have 
disclosed. This information was material to China Taipings decision in accepting risk. 
I am satisfied that it was Hs responsibility to ensure that it provided a fair presentation of the 
risk to China Taiping when the policy was taken out in July 2020 and at the renewal in 2021. 
As it didnt do that in this instance, I am satisfied that it didnt make a fair presentation of the 
risk.
China Taiping have provided their underwriting guide and the underwriter has confirmed that 
had they been told about the debt involved in the liquidation, they wouldnt have offered 
terms. Based on this evidence, I am satisfied that, had the appropriate disclosures been 
made, China Taiping wouldnt have offered terms to H in July 2020 or at the renewal in 
2021. Therefore, I think H made a qualifying breach in both July 2020 and July 2021.
The remedies available to China Taiping depend on whether a qualifying breach is either 
deliberate or reckless, or, neither deliberate nor reckless. China Taiping have treated Hs 
breach as deliberate or reckless. Based on all the circumstances, I think China Taiping acted 
fairly in deciding this. H ought to have known about the substantial outstanding debt in the 
liquidation and should have disclosed it to China Taiping in July 2020 and 2021. 
The Insurance Act says that in the above circumstances, China Taiping can avoid the policy 
from the date of renewal at which the disclosure should have been made. This would have 
been when the policy was incepted in July 2020 and at the renewal in 2021. China Taiping 
said they cancelled the policy from October 2020 and avoided the policy which incepted in 
2021. As China Taiping were entitled to avoid the policies from July 2020 Im not going to 
interfere with their decision. As a result, there was no policy in place to meet the flood claim 
in July 2021.  
Taking everything into account, I dont think China Taiping acted unfairly in cancelling Hs 
policy from the date of the liquidation - October 2020, retaining all the premium paid and 
declining the claim in question, for not making a fair presentation of the risk.
My final decision
My Final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman