DRN-2100316
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him an MPPI policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 July 2020 and I will summarise my 
findings below.
Mr G took out an MPPI policy in a meeting in July 1989 with an agent representing 
Lloyds. The policy was added to a mortgage that he was arranging at the same time.
An agent met with Mr G and they were acting on behalf of Lloyds (trading at that time as 
Halifax). So, because of this Lloyds have taken responsibility for this sale and for ease, I 
have referred to Lloyds having sold the policy to Mr G.
I summarised that Lloyds had not been able to provide much sales documentation and 
that there was little information available. Also, that neither party could provide a detailed 
recollection of what happened although all of this was understandable considering the 
amount of years that have passed since. 
I concluded that I wasnt aware of any known issues with the way conducted these types 
of sales at that point and that I was unable to conclude that Mr G was given anything 
other than an option to take MPPI with his mortgage.
I then went on to conclude that the policy looked suitable for Mr G and that he would have 
found at least some value in having the benefits the policy would have provided to him. I 
also couldnt see that Lloyds had provided clear information to him, but that Mr G 
wouldve taken the policy anyway if he had been given clearer information for the reasons 
why I thought the policy was suitable.
I didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. I then asked both parties to let me know if they had any 
further comments.
In response to my provisional decision, on 04 August 2020, Mr G reiterated that the policy 
was not sold by Lloyds but was sold by an agent on behalf of Halifax. He also said again 
that he was not given the choice to have the policy. 
Lloyds did not reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have again considered Mr Gs comments and acknowledge what he has said. But 
again, I can only reiterate again that I am aware that Mr G was sold the policy by an 
agent. But it did this on behalf of Halifax, who are now part of Lloyds. 
Lloyds have taken responsibility for this complaint and by doing so, it has enabled our 
service to look into Mr Gs complaint. 
Without any further comments or new points made by either party, I dont feel I need to 
reconsider any of my findings that I have given as a summary above and within my 
provisional decision. So, it follows that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman