DRN-2182849
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1994 to
cover a loan. Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr W aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before
adding it to his loan. Neither Lloyds nor Mr W have been able to provide paperwork from the
time the policy was sold. But this isnt surprising as the PPI was sold such a long time ago
and businesses arent required to keep this type of information indefinitely. With the limited 
information available I am unable to say that Lloyds didnt make Mr W aware the policy was 
optional, or that Mr W didnt choose to take it.
With the limited information available its not possible to determine whether or not Lloyds 
recommended the PPI to Mr W. If Lloyds did recommend the policy to Mr W it would have 
had to check that it was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time, I think that it was. 
Mr W has told us that he was self-employed at the time he took the policy out but from what 
we know about the policies sold by Lloyds at the time, the terms didnt make it any more 
difficult for self-employed people to make a claim.
Mr W has also explained that he would have had cover for up to three months if he found 
himself unable to work, from money owed to him in arrears from freelance work. But the PPI 
policy would have paid in addition to this and for longer.
With the above in mind Mr W wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it
seems like it could have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was
affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said, including that Lloyds has upheld other claims 
he has made and that it has been selective with the information it has provided. But each 
complaint is determined on its own merits, and the outcome of other claims would not impact 
on this. I have also not seen any evidence to suggest Lloyds has been selective with the 
information it has provided to us. So, these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman