DRN-1525650
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) provided poor customer service when 
he called on it under his home emergency insurance policy following a water leak at his 
home. 
What happened
In September 2019, Mr L came home in the evening to find water flooding his home from a 
leaking radiator. He was unable to stop the leaking which was spreading to the flat below, 
and the flat below that. So he called Aviva for assistance under his home emergency policy.
Avivas representative couldnt say when someone would attend. They said someone would 
contact Mr L within 2 hours to arrange an appointment. With no indication of when Aviva 
would arrange for someone to visit, Mr L started to ring round plumbers to see if someone 
could come quickly and stop the leak. He found a plumber who could attend immediately.
Aviva did ring back just under 2 hours after receiving Mr Ls call. Mr L told the representative 
that he had found another plumber who was then at the flat dealing with the leak. So he 
didnt now require immediate assistance from Aviva.
He spoke to Aviva again the next day and said he had had to pay the plumber for his visit. 
Aviva said he should write to it explaining the circumstances with the plumbers bill, which it 
was likely it would be able to pay in the circumstances. Mr L did so, but Aviva said it wouldnt 
reimburse the full bill - £276.
Aviva said it had followed its procedures correctly when Mr L called to report the 
leak. However, Mr L hadnt given it the opportunity to resolve the leak. So it didnt accept it 
hadnt provided the required service under the policy, and wouldnt reimburse the plumbers 
bill in full.
It accepted that dealing with the leak was an event covered by the policy. If it had sent a 
plumber to deal with this, the cost to Aviva would have been £49.96. So it was willing to 
contribute this amount towards the cost Mr L had incurred. Mr L didnt accept this offer and 
complained to us.
Our investigator's view
Our investigator didnt agree that this complaint should be upheld. He said Aviva had 
advised Mr L of the 2 hour timescale within which he would receive a call back to arrange an 
appointment for a plumber to visit. He didnt think this was an unreasonable timescale for 
Aviva to provide.
He thought Aviva would need adequate time to find a plumber who would be available to 
visit Mr Ls home, and arrange a time for them to do so. If Aviva had called back, and had 
told Mr L that it would be 24 hours before a plumber could visit, we would probably say this 
was an unfair timescale.However, we could only consider what had happened. Aviva did call Mr L back within 2 
hours, by which time Mr L had already found a plumber to attend his home.
Avivas terms and conditions made it clear it wouldnt cover costs of work it hadnt authorised 
in advance. So he wouldnt recommend that it should reimburse the £276 Mr L had incurred. 
Aviva had provided evidence to him that the cost to Aviva of carrying out the work would 
have been £49.96. So he thought its offer to pay this to Mr L was fair in the circumstances.
Mr L responded to say, in summary, that for an emergency situation, with an uncontrollable 
leak, Avivas response was inadequate. He was told that it would be up to 2 hours before 
anyone would contact him to arrange an appointment, with no indication as to how long after 
that a plumber would be able to attend.
If he had been told someone would attend within 3 hours of the initial call, he would have 
thought that was reasonable. But with no indication of when help would arrive he thought he 
had acted reasonably in seeking help elsewhere, and that Aviva should reimburse the cost 
of this.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional view to Mr L and to Aviva on 3 December 2019. In it said that Id 
listened to the lengthy phone call between Mr L and the investigator in response to the 
investigators recommendation.
I noted that included in the terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy was the following provision:
Response
- If your incident is an emergency (including internal leaks which cannot be controlled), your 
claim will be given priority, otherwise an appointment will be made
I asked the investigator to put some further questions to Aviva. The questions, and Avivas 
responses are as follows:
Q. What steps did Aviva take to prioritise Mr Ls claim in accordance with the above policy 
term, and why did it take the time it did for it to call Mr L to arrange an appointment?
A. Regrettably, there are very limited notes on this claim, therefore I am unable to confirm 
why it took nearly 2 hrs to call the customer to offer an appointment. I am also unable to 
confirm what steps were taken to arrange an engineers attendance.
Q. When Aviva did call Mr L back to arrange an appointment, its assumed a plumber was 
available and ready to attend. Is there any information on Avivas records that would show 
when this plumber would've been able to reach Mr L?
A. Unfortunately, our system does not capture the time an engineer intends to attend when 
the claim has been cancelled. By the time we called Mr L, an hour and forty minutes after the 
claim was logged, he had already arranged for a plumber friend to attend.
Should an appointment have been offered, and accepted, there would have been notes 
confirming the appointment time arranged. However, as the customer cancelled the claim, 
there are no notes to indicate when the engineer would have attended.
On the basis of Avivas responses, I said there wasn't any evidence to suggest Aviva gave 
Mr Ls claim the priority he was entitled to expect under the policy wording, given that he was dealing with an uncontrollable internal leak. I thought Aviva should have reassured Mr L that 
it would tell him when an engineer would be able to attend his home much sooner than it did.
I thought Mr L acted reasonably in the circumstances in ringing round and arranging for 
another plumber to attend quickly to stop the leak. As I wasnt satisfied that Aviva complied 
with its policy terms by giving Mr L the required priority, I thought it was reasonable that it 
reimburse Mr L the full amount he had to pay his own plumber, inclusive of the amount it had 
already offered him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L accepted my provisional decision.
Aviva said it had nothing to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr L nor Aviva has provided any fresh information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.  
Putting things right
As mentioned above, I think it's reasonable that Aviva reimburses Mr L the full amount he 
had to pay his own plumber, inclusive of the amount it has already offered him. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Aviva Insurance Limited to reimburse 
Mr L the £276 he paid his own plumber, inclusive of the £49.96 it has already offered him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman