DRN-3624431
The complaint
Mr J complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr J is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around February 2017, Mr J was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr J decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In September 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Js behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr J to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr J or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr J and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had never shown Mr J Ps quote (on which the adjudicator had relied in 
forming his opinion), and had only gone through it on his laptop;
Mr J had never had the opportunity to read it;
a copy of the quote had never been sent to him to read in his own time;
being satisfied with what he had been told in the sales meeting, Mr J had not thought 
it necessary to ask for a copy of the quote afterwards.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr J paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr J could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr J and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr J says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and two versions of the solar quote, one titled Your Bespoke Quote and 
one titled Getting Started; the latter has been signed by Mr J. Ive considered these, along 
with Mr Js testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is 
most likely to have happened.
The quotes are detailed documents that set out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that one of these  I presume the signed one  formed a central part of the 
sales process and the representative of P would have discussed this in detail with Mr J, 
explaining any benefits of the system, prior to him agreeing to enter into the contract. This is 
in dispute. But I dont think its likely or plausible that Mr J simply took the salesmans word 
for it when he was told that he could buy thousands of pounds worth of equipment  paid for 
with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing him a penny, without at any point asking to 
see something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that Mr J has simply forgotten seeing 
the quote, and signing it, over the five years between the sale and the bringing of his claim. 
So on the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that the Getting Started quotation did form 
a central part of the sales process when Mr J agreed to enter into the contract, and therefore 
accept that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into 
account, along with Mr Js version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue 
statements of fact. (The excerpts shown below are all taken from the signed quote.)The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mr J has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Js recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr J could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr J could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £245.18, which results in an average monthly income of about £20. 
Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due of £63.04. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr J was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr J could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings are £222.01 and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £467.19. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Below that theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments 
over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as 
this is the length of the loan that Mr J entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £63.04. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement 
gives the correct monthly figure of £61.61, but the difference  £1.43  is too small to affect 
the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand 
total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the 
first 11 years of the loan (which are highlighted in red), meaning that the system would not 
begin to make enough money to cover the loan payments until year 12 (highlighted in 
green). I think this is clear. I note that Mr J has signed immediately below this table.
(I have only shown the first 12 years of the table here, since years 13 to 15 were shown on 
the next page.)
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr J could expect to receive from the system, by 
way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr J wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mr Js version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr J that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.43 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr J, 
so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im also satisfied 
that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr J was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Putting it all together section of the quote states in large font that it would take 11 
years for the overall benefits that Mr J could expect to receive to match the cash price of the 
system.
A later page of the quote, titled What will you earn & save per year? has a table detailing 
the estimated performance of the system over 25 years. This too shows that during year 11 
the overall benefits that Mr J could expect to receive would reach the cash price of the 
system. (I have only reproduced years 1 to 17 here, because the later years have not been 
shown clearly. But Im satisfied that the table as a whole makes the timescale clear.)
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr J that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 11 years, as supported by the excerpts above, which were included in the quote. If 
that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to 
enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether 
this is in line with the contract between P and Mr J.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,734 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Js FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 4,127 kWh a year. This is significantly more than estimated by P at the point of 
sale (110.5%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr J has not seen the expected financial returns 
is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data from prior to 2017 to calculate the utility price 
and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020, and 
the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think this 
explains why Mr J hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr J could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr J entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr J to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman