DRN-4191269
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B brought the complaint to our service jointly as they made the investment in 
joint names. But the account the funds were paid from is held in Mr Bs sole name. For 
simplicity, Ill mainly refer to Mr B in this decision.
In 2016, Mr Bs daughter introduced him to friends who had recently invested through a 
solicitor based in London. The solicitor specialised in foreign exchange trading schemes. Ill 
refer to the friends as D and to the solicitor as E. E was the director of two companies, who 
Ill refer to as G and S. 
D told Mr B they had met E and another person who worked with him at Es London office. D 
were impressed with what they heard and decided to invest. Mr B says online searches 
showed E as being vastly experienced and a successful leader in many financial areas.
Based on what D told him, Mr B also decided to invest through E. The contract that Mr and 
Mrs B signed said they were making a loan to G (a company based in Switzerland) in 
exchange for a monthly return of 2%. The money Mr and Mrs B loaned to G would be 
invested in foreign exchange markets, and their £250,000 loan would generate a £5,000 per 
month return.
Initially Mr B made a payment for £250,000 worth of Swiss Francs on 21 October 2016 to an 
account in the name of S, this was an international payment to an account held with a Swiss 
bank. This payment was unsuccessful and returned to Mr Bs account. Due to a change in 
the exchange rate, just over £243,000 was paid back to Mr Bs account. Both Lloyds and   
Mr B believe the payment was unsuccessful for a reason related to the beneficiary bank, 
although its not clear what the issue was. But Mr B was asked to resend the money to a 
different bank, so on 31 October 2016 Mr B made a payment in GBP for the value of the 
credit he received. He sent these funds to another account in Ss name that was held with a 
bank in Liechtenstein.
Mr B received returns paid into his account of £5,000 per month from December 2016 to 
March 2017. At the end of March 2017, Mr B decided to invest a further £50,000. The 
contract that Mr and Mrs B signed said they were making a loan to S in exchange for a 
monthly return of £6,000.
After making the payment Mr B received one more return of £5,000 in April 2017, then 
received a monthly return of £6,000 each month between May 2017 and August 2017, with a 
final return of £6,000 in October 2017.
When the returns stopped being paid, Mr B queried it and was told S had banking issues 
that would be resolved. But Mr B didnt receive any further returns.
In March 2019, Mr B received a letter from a company who had been appointed as liquidator 
for S, following bankruptcy proceedings initiated by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory 
Authority. The letter from the liquidator said it was difficult to know why the company had 
collapsed and that it appeared it mayve been a Ponzi scheme.
Mr B raised a fraud claim with Lloyds asking them to refund him £300,000. Lloyds 
investigated the claim and declined to refund Mr B. They explained that the payments 
werent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) which only 
applies to payments made after 2019. Lloyds felt that even if they had asked Mr B more 
questions about the payments at the time he made them, its unlikely there was anything 
they couldve said or done that wouldve stopped Mr B from making the payments. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. They felt that even if Lloyds 
had asked more questions about the payments, its unlikely they wouldve been concerned 
about the payments or stopped them. The investigator felt that based on the information that 
was available to Mr B at the time, more checks wouldve suggested that S was a genuine 
firm, so Mr B wouldve proceeded with the payments. They highlighted that at the time Mr B 
made the payments, the directors of S had an online presence for their work in investments 
and were featured in multiple finance magazines, there was no warning on the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys website and that Mr B was introduced to the investment by a trusted 
source who said theyd met E and were impressed.
Also, there wasnt anything to suggest Lloyds had received warnings about the receiving 
bank, or that they wouldve known who operated the account Mr B was sending his funds to. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion raising the following points:
Lloyds wouldve been aware of Liechtensteins reputation for money laundering and 
shouldve prevented his payments.
Lloyds offer a free service which includes investment advice and this shouldve been 
mentioned to him at the time. They also offer private banking which gives access to 
Wealth Services, which also shouldve been offered to him.
Mr B also sent us three separate documents - a press release Lloyds issued in relation to 
Confirmation of Payee which was introduced in 2019, a report from the Council of Europe 
relating to the Principality of Liechtenstein which included an evaluation conducted by the 
International Monetary Fund, and an article from the Financial Action Task Force in relation 
to money laundering and obligations to monitor clients activities.
After the investigator issued the view, Mr B engaged the services of a representative in 
relation to his complaint. That representative provided additional reasons why they felt the 
investigator had reached the wrong answer, including:
Lloyds had closed an account for G, which had resulted in an account being set up in 
Ss name. Lloyds wouldve been aware of this and shouldnt have allowed Mr B to 
send funds to the same individuals linked to the account they closed.
Mr B was sending the money for an investment loan, but S wasnt regulated by the 
FCA for such activity.
Banking Protocol shouldve been instigated when Mr B made the payment in branch.As the case couldnt be resolved it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have lost their life savings and have told us about the difficulties theyve faced 
as a result. Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B have both suffered serious health issues, 
which have been exacerbated by the stress caused by the loss of this money. I am so sorry 
to learn about what they have been through and are still going through. Unfortunately, 
having carefully considered everything theyve told us, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund the 
loss theyve suffered which I realise will be extremely disappointing to them.
In considering whether I think Lloyds shouldve prevented the payments Ive started by 
considering whether Lloyds asked sufficient questions at the time Mr B made the payments, 
and if I dont think they did, whether asking further questions wouldve prevented Mr B from 
making the payments or shouldve resulted in Lloyds stopping the payments.
Should Lloyds have prevented the first payment Mr B made of £250,000
The first payment that Mr B made was for £250,000 which Im satisfied is unusual enough 
compared to his previous account usage and given the size of the payment, that Lloyds 
shouldve asked sufficient questions to satisfy themselves he wasnt the potential victim of 
fraud.
Lloyds have completed a high value checklist which required them to consider fraud warning 
signs, but Im not satisfied that completing this checklist is sufficient in these circumstances. I 
wouldve expected them to have a discussion with Mr B about the payment purpose and to 
have asked him questions about the investment he was making. 
There isnt a prescriptive list of questions, but I wouldve expected them to include questions 
like: how Mr B found out about the investment, what checks he had done to satisfy himself 
the investment was genuine, what return he was getting on the investment, whether he had 
received any advice in relation to making the investment, whether he had checked the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) website and why this is important, and then further 
probing questions based on the answers he gave.
In this case, Mr B was introduced to the investment by someone he trusted (his daughter) 
who had heard about the investment from friends  D. D had gone into the London offices of 
E and been given information about the investment, which Mr B says impressed them 
enough that they decided to invest. Mr B says online searches showed that E was 
experienced and successful. From what Ive seen, there wasnt any negative information 
available at the time Mr B made this payment that wouldve caused concern in relation to 
either E, G or S. Also, I think Mr B was reassured that D had invested their own money with 
E, as it suggested they were satisfied that the opportunity was genuine. 
Usually with an investment of this size I would expect Lloyds to ask if Mr B had checked the 
FCAs website for any warnings and to check that G and S were regulated in the UK. 
However, the contract Mr B signed said both G and S were businesses based in Switzerland 
not the UK, so they would be subject to regulations and authorisation in their home country. 
Often with a scam or Ponzi scheme the FCA will have a warning posted on their website, 
however Ive been unable to find one for either G or S at the time Mr B made his payments. The return that Mr B was promised was 2% per month, which is a high return based on the 
investment rates being offered at the time. However, Im not satisfied that this by itself is 
enough to outweigh the other information that Mr B wouldve given Lloyds about the 
investment whereby I think they shouldve stopped the payment. Especially as I dont think 
further checks wouldve turned up any negative information about E, G or S.
I think its also important to note that S was put into bankruptcy by the Swiss Financial 
Market Supervisory Authority. While there are individual posts online about this investment 
being a scam, the liquidators letter sent to Mr B in 2019 doesnt say that S was running a 
scam or was a Ponzi scheme. The liquidator says they cant account for where the money 
went and suggest it couldve been a Ponzi scheme. But there isnt clear evidence that this 
was in fact a scam as opposed to a financial business that was mismanaged and went into 
bankruptcy. 
Having considered all the information that was available at the time Mr B made his first 
payment, and what information is likely to have been provided if Lloyds had asked 
appropriate questions, Im not satisfied that Lloyds shouldve had concerns or shouldve 
stopped the payment.
Should Lloyds have stopped the second payment of just over £243,000
While the first payment of £250,000 was returned to Mr Bs account, its unclear exactly why 
this happened. Both Lloyds and Mr B believe there was an issue with the beneficiary bank.
Mr B then resent the money to an account in the same name but through a different bank 
and account number. Based on the information that Mr B had available at the time about E, 
G and S  Im not satisfied that Lloyds shouldve been so concerned about this payment 
being returned that I wouldve expected them to stop Mr B from attempting to remake the 
payment. I havent seen anything that suggests the information they had available indicated 
there were fraud related reasons for the funds being returned. Also, due to it being an 
international payment, the amount of information that wouldve been available to Lloyds 
wouldve been limited compared to the information that mightve been available if the funds 
were sent to a UK account. And, based on the second payment being made only a few days 
after the first payment, Im not satisfied that any different or negative information wouldve 
been available at the time Mr B resent the funds if Lloyds had asked additional questions.
Based on what Ive seen Im not satisfied that I can fairly say that Lloyds shouldve stopped 
the second payment from being made either.
Should Lloyds have stopped the last payment of £50,000
By the time Mr B made the last payment of £50,000 he had been receiving a regular monthly 
return into his Lloyds account in line with the contract hed signed. I havent seen anything 
that suggests that new information was available that shouldve concerned Lloyds if 
questions had been asked. Although, as this payment was significantly smaller than the 
previous payment of over £200,000, it being made to an existing payee and it being made 
over a month after the previous payment, I wouldnt have expected Lloyds to have 
intervened and asked questions before following Mr Bs payment instruction. 
The additional points Mr B and his representative have raised
Mr Bs representative has raised a point about Lloyds closing an account in Gs name, and 
then allowing Mr B to send a payment to S. The representative says this shouldve been 
concerning as the individuals linked to G were also linked to S. However, I havent seen 
anything that suggests Lloyds were aware of this link. The payments that Mr B made were 
all to the payee name of S, and using international bank account details. As Ive already mentioned, the information available to Lloyds in making an international payment is less 
than would be available if the payment was made to a UK bank or an account that was held 
with Lloyds banking group.  I wouldnt expect Lloyds to do independent research into G and 
S to find out who the directors were or whether there were links and I think its unlikely that 
this information wouldve come to light as part of the questions I wouldve expected them to 
ask Mr B at the time he made the first two payments. 
There was also a suggestion that the Banking Protocol shouldve been instigated, however 
Id only expect Lloyds to do that if they had concerns Mr B was the victim of a scam - as a 
way to safeguard him. As Ive explained above, Im not satisfied that if Lloyds had asked    
Mr B more questions before making the payment that they wouldve had concerns or 
shouldve stopped the payments  so I wouldnt expect them to instigate the Banking 
Protocol in these circumstances.
 
Mr B feels Lloyds shouldve been aware of Liechtensteins reputation for money laundering, 
but I havent seen anything that suggests Lloyds were put on notice that UK banks shouldnt 
be sending money to accounts held in Liechtenstein. This type of advice would usually come 
from the UK government or a financial regulator and I cant see that a notice had been 
issued. 
Ive read the documents Mr B has sent us which he says supports his position that Lloyds 
shouldnt have allowed him to make the payments. The press release in relation to 
Confirmation of Payee isnt applicable to this case, as it wasnt introduced until 2019 and 
only applies to payments made within the UK. At the time that Mr B made his payments, the 
expectation on Lloyds (in relation to an international payment) was to check that a valid 
IBAN and account number were used on the payment details so that the payment went 
through.
The article relating to money laundering talks about obligations on entities like Lloyds to do 
sufficient checks on their customers to ensure that accounts arent being used to launder 
money. This requires them to check Mr Bs identification and source of funds, it doesnt put 
an obligation on them to complete money laundering requirements on the beneficiary bank 
or beneficiary account  especially when the funds are being sent overseas.
 
Mr B has highlighted some additional services that Lloyds offer to their customers, but I cant 
see that Mr B asked Lloyds for investment advice or whether they had any services that 
might help him with making investments  so I cant say they acted unreasonably by not 
offering these to him at the time he was making the payments. 
Mr B was investing a large amount of money and had the ability to complete checks or get 
investment advice before proceeding with the payments he made. While I would expect 
Lloyds to be on the look-out for and to protect its customers from falling victim to a scam, I 
wouldnt expect them to give unsolicited investment advice. Rather Id expect them to ask 
appropriate questions and if they have concerns about a payment theyre being asked to 
make, to intervene and not make the payment in some circumstances. 
For the reasons Ive already given, while I think Lloyds shouldve asked more questions 
about the payments Mr B was making, I dont think they acted unreasonably in following    
Mr Bs payment instructions.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but Im not satisfied that I can fairly hold Lloyds 
liable for their loss or ask Lloyds to refund the money theyve lost.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman