DRN-4014620
The complaint
Mrs Chas complained about the quality of a car she acquired, using finance from Close 
Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance.
What happened
In May 2022, Mrs C entered into a finance agreement with Close Brothers. This was for a 
car that was almost nine years old, with a mileage of 89066.
In August 2022, Mrs C reported that there was a damp smell inside the car. An independent 
inspection didnt find sings of water ingress or a leak from the sunroof. It noted that the cars 
overall general condition was in line with its age and reported mileage. It recommended that 
the sunroof drains be cleaned, due to evidence of debris, and stated this was part of normal 
maintenance.
In November 2022, Mrs C reported that the car had broken down, and explained the issues 
were no power, the engine management light was on, the engine cut out and wouldnt start, 
oil pump issues and the oil needed replacing. Close Brothers said it wouldnt help, because 
the repairs had already begun, without being authorised.
Later that month, Mrs C reported further issues, and the car failed its MOT. A further 
independent inspection was carried out. It stated that the car was of satisfactory quality for 
its age and mileage and the issues reported were wear and tear.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. This was because neither of the independent reports found the 
car to be of unsatisfactory quality, for its age and mileage. Also, she felt it reasonable that 
Close Brothers wouldnt pay for the repairs in early November, as Mrs C had started them 
without authorisation, before it could assess its liability.
Mrs C asked that her complaint be passed to me to look at afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. I know this is disappointing, but Ill explain 
why.
I can see that two independent reports have been carried out. Both found that the car is of 
satisfactory quality, given its age and mileage. Whilst there are clearly some issues with the 
car, this is to be expected, given these factors. On the basis of the reports, Im satisfied that 
the issues are not faults  rather, they are wear and tear, and serviceable/maintenance 
issues.
Ive also considered whether Close Brothers should have assisted with the issues in early 
November 2002. Like the investigator, I think it was reasonable of it to refuse. It had 
previously advised Mrs C not to carry out unauthorised repairs. I do sympathise with her 
position, as when theres an issue with a car, the desire is to have it repaired as quickly as 
possible. But, its still the case that the repairs werent authorised, so Close Brothers wasnt 
able to carry out an inspection. I have no doubt that it would have done, as it did on both 
other occasions.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, and that 
Close Brothers had acted fairly in not paying for repairs or allowing rejection of the car.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman