DRN-3225751
The complaint
Mr C is complaining Insurance Factory Ltd (IFL)  trading as Affinity Insurance Solutions 
Limited  cancelled his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C took out a car insurance policy through a broker. The broker was subsequently bought 
by IFL. The insurer required Mr C to pay an annual premium and he needed to pay this at 
the start of the policy. Mr C wanted to pay for the policy through monthly instalments. To 
enable him to do so, he took out a finance agreement with a third-party finance provider. The 
finance provider paid the annual premium on Mr Cs behalf and Mr C agreed in return to 
repay this in line with the terms of the finance agreement. 
In November 2020, Mr C missed a monthly payment so IFL wrote to Mr C to say it would 
cancel the insurance policy on 10 December 2020 if he didnt pay the missed payment. On 
1 December 2020 Mr C called IFL to say he was in financial difficulties, but said hed be paid 
on 13 December 2020 and asked for an extension to make the payment. IFL gave an 
extension until 14 December 2020. However, Mr C didnt call in time so IFL cancelled the 
insurance policy. 
Mr C called on 15 December 2020 but IFL told him it had cancelled the insurance policy. 
Mr C asked it to reinstate the policy, but IFL wouldnt do so. Mr C took out another policy 
through IFL three days later, but he was unhappy his monthly payment had doubled and 
hed had to remove his partner from the policy. He said he was disabled and needed his 
partner insured on the policy in case of emergencies and he wasnt able to drive.
IFL maintained it had acted fairly, so Mr C referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think it was fair for a broker to immediately 
look to cancel an insurance policy following one missed payment. She said there were 
severe implications for cancelling an insurance policy and thought this should be a last resort 
and she thought IFL should have explored other options before cancelling the policy.
IFL didnt agree with the investigator. It said the terms of the policy entitled it to act as it did. 
It said it did look to help Mr C by granting a four-day extension, but the policy was cancelled 
because Mr C didnt call. 
As IFL didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first set out that Im conscious some of the actions here were carried out by the 
previous broker. But IFL is liable for the actions of the previous broker. So, for ease of 
reference, I shall refer to anything the previous broker did as being done by IFL 
IFL was acting as an insurance broker in this matter. Its responsibility was to arrange and 
administer the contract of insurance. Mr C also entered into a separate contract with a 
finance provider to finance the annual premium. It was the finance providers responsibility to 
consider Mr Cs ability to keep up with his monthly finance payments. It was also the finance 
providers responsibility to assist Mr C if he came into financial difficulties and couldnt keep 
up with his monthly payments. However, it seems to me, the finance provider outsourced the 
responsibility to administer the finance agreement to IFL.
The terms of Mr Cs insurance policy set out that IFL could cancel the policy if he missed a 
payment on his finance agreement. But it needed to exercise this right fairly and reasonably. 
It doesnt automatically follow that, just because the terms of the policy allowed IFL to act as 
it did, its acted fairly. And the application of this term needs to be considered alongside 
regulatory guidelines and whats fair and reasonable.
Generally speaking, I dont think its fair for an insurer or broker to look to cancel an 
insurance policy as soon as a payment is missed. A finance provider can ask for an 
insurance policy to be cancelled as a means to recover outstanding arrears on the finance 
agreement. But cancellation can have severe implications on a consumer, as it invariably 
results in charges being incurred due to the cancellation. It can also lead to further difficulties 
in getting replacement insurance, or significantly increase the cost of insurance  as was the 
case here. This is likely to then put the consumer in a worse position than they were in 
before the cancellation. And this doesnt seem in keeping with regulatory requirements to 
treat customers fairly. Further to this industry regulations sets out a number of options 
finance providers should consider where a consumer is in financial difficulties. I think 
cancellation should be a last resort and only considered after other avenues had been 
explored.
IFL has highlighted Mr C had missed a number of payments over the course of his finance 
agreement. But Im conscious this was around a year beforehand and Mr C was up to date 
with his payments and I understand had been throughout the policy term. In this case I think 
it would have been fairer for IFL to send Mr C an initial letter setting out that his latest direct 
debit payment hadnt gone through and asked him to make swift arrangements to make the 
payment and give him a reasonable period of time to do so. If Mr C didnt make the payment 
in that time or make contact to ask for financial assistance, then it may have become fair to 
start the cancellation procedure. But I dont think its fair to immediately start a cancellation 
procedure after one missed payment.
Further to this, Mr C called on 1 December 2020 and IFLs internal file notes say he 
explained he was in financial difficulties as his partner  the main earner  had been 
furloughed due to Covid-19. He also explained he was disabled and they were having to 
make the monthly payment from his independence allowance. I recognise IFL gave Mr C a 
four-day extension. But the FCA has given clear guidelines to finance providers where it 
becomes aware a consumer is in financial difficulties. As I said, it seems to me the finance 
provider had outsourced administration of the finance agreement to IFL. So I think IFL was 
responsible for considering Mr Cs situation and it should have either explored all options 
available to assist Mr C, or at the very least contacted the finance provider to see what 
options were available. I dont think IFL went fair enough in this matter and, had it done so, I 
dont think the insurance policy would have been cancelled. So Mr C has lost out as a result. 
I accept Mr C could and should have called IFL before it cancelled the policy to explain he 
was sorting out his finances and asked for a further extension. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think he should have been put in this position in the first place. I think IFLs 
failure to explore all options available is ultimately the reason the policy was cancelled.
That said, its clear Mr Cs insurance premium was always going to significantly increase 
when his policy ended, because the insurer providing the policy wasnt offering insurance 
any longer. And Mr C has also told us he couldnt find a cheaper insurance policy than the 
one IFL arranged. So Mr Cs loss is the extra hes had to pay for the remaining time that he 
had on the insurance policy. So I think IFL should refund the extra hes paid each month up 
to the time the policy would have ended had IFL not cancelled it. It should also pay 8% 
simple interest on this amount from the date he paid it until the date he gets it back. 
I think this matter has also caused Mr C a lot of unnecessary distress and inconvenience, 
most notably the following:
His monthly payments doubled causing further financial strain on him at a time he was 
already in financial difficulties; and
He had to insure the car without his partner on the insurance. Mr C suffers from a 
disability. While he is the primary user of the car, hes told us that at times his partner will 
have to drive if his disability prevents him from doing so. In cancelling the policy, this 
prevented his partner from being able to drive the car as it was financially prohibitive for 
Mr C to insure her.
With this in mind, I think IFL should pay Mr C £150 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Insurance Factory Ltd to do the following to put things right:
1. Arrange for all record of the policys cancellation to be removed from Mr Cs record or, if 
not possible, provide Mr C with a letter to say he doesnt need to disclose this to future 
insurers;
2. Refund the extra Mr Cs paid each month on his monthly payments up to the time the 
policy would have ended had IFL not cancelled it. It should also pay 8% simple interest 
on this amount from the date he paid it until the date he gets it back*.
3. Pay Mr C £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter caused 
him.
* If IFL thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from this 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman