DRN-2399785
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by the Executors of the estate of the late Mrs B, who 
passed away in November 2019. The Executors have authorised Mrs Bs daughter, Mrs F, to 
conduct the complaint on behalf of the estate.
The complaint is against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. Mrs F says that an equity 
release mortgage was mis-sold to Mrs B by Aviva in April 2003. Mrs F is unhappy at the 
interest rate applied to the mortgage, and that, after Mrs B died, Aviva refused to freeze 
interest pending sale of the property.
To settle the complaint, Mrs F is asking Aviva to compensate the estate.
What happened
In April 2003 Mrs B was given advice by Aviva about equity release mortgages. She 
attended the appointment with one of her daughters, Mrs E (who I understand has since 
passed away).
Mrs B went ahead with the mortgage, borrowing £22,100 at a fixed interest rate of 7.55% per 
annum. In common with this type of mortgage, no monthly repayments are due. Instead, 
interest rolls up on a compound basis and the total balance of capital and interest is 
repayable either on Mrs Bs death, or if she left the property to go into long-term care.
Mrs B passed away in November 2019. In December 2019 Mrs F raised a complaint with 
Aviva about the mortgage. The property was sold on 13 January 2021. I understand that 
total interest of £58,000 was applied by Aviva on the initial advance, making a total repaid to 
Aviva of approximately £79,000.
In her complaint Mrs F said that Mrs Bs son had bought the property for her in cash and that 
Mrs B would never knowingly have given away the majority of the equity. Mrs F also said 
that Mrs B had had mental health issues for many years, suffering from depression and 
anxiety. Although Mrs F acknowledged that Aviva was entitled to charge interest on the loan, 
she thought the rate was extortionate and that Mrs B had been incapable of understanding 
what shed been doing when she took out the mortgage.
In addition to her complaint that the mortgage had been mis-sold, Mrs F was also unhappy 
that Aviva would not freeze interest pending a sale of the property. Mrs F said that, due to 
the pandemic, sales had fallen through. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to us, where an investigator looked at 
what had happened. He didnt think the mortgage had been mis-sold. He also thought Aviva 
was entitled to continue to apply interest to the loan.
Mrs F didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. No further arguments or evidence have been put forward, other than 
dissatisfaction with the investigators findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will start first by explaining the extent of our powers in relation to this matter.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs B was a consumer, and 
so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. For the purposes of this 
complaint, the rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant 
by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, the 
Executors are bringing the complaint on the estates behalf, and as such are authorised by 
law to do so. Mrs F is the Executors representative.
But I must explain that, although Mrs F is representing the estate, it is Mrs B who was 
Avivas customer (or at least was at the time of the events complained about). Mrs Fs role is 
to bring Mrs Bs complaint on the estates behalf, in the same way that other consumers 
might instruct a relative, solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this 
does not entitle Mrs F to air her own grievances about Aviva, because she is not its 
customer; her role is limited to putting forward the estates complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence that Mrs F has expressed her own concerns about 
what she perceives to be Avivas failings  and I do not doubt her strength of feeling about 
this. But because Mrs F is not Avivas customer, her own concerns about Aviva dont form 
part of this complaint.
Mrs B hadnt complained about the mortgage previously, and it seems that it was only after 
Mrs B had died that a complaint was raised with Aviva. So in this final decision I have looked 
at the sale of the plan. Without a specific complaint from Mrs B about it, I have considered 
generally whether Aviva did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out.
Mis-sale of the mortgage: The mortgage was taken out in April 2003, before mortgages 
became regulated by what is now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The mortgage was 
arranged pursuant to the Mortgage Code, a voluntary code of practice to which Aviva 
subscribed. The mortgage was also covered by the rules of what was then known as the 
Safe Home Income Plan (now the Equity Release Council).
The FCA and the Equity Release Council are aware that there is potential years down the 
line for family members to find out their parents had taken out an equity release mortgage 
without consulting them first. These scenarios  and the fact that equity release mortgages 
are sold to elderly customers  is why this type of mortgage is (and always has been) 
subject to such a robust and rigorous sales process, with the need for borrowers to have 
advice from a financial adviser, as well as from their own solicitor. (In this case, the financial 
adviser worked for Aviva, and sold only Aviva products. There is nothing untoward about 
this, as it was disclosed at the outset.)
I note from the documents available at the time that Mrs B attended the meeting with her 
daughter, Mrs E, and that she confirmed to Aviva that shed discussed taking out the 
mortgage with her children. Neither Mrs B nor Mrs E told Aviva that Mrs B had any mental 
health issues, and there is nothing in the evidence from the time to suggest Aviva knew, or 
should have known, that Mrs B suffered from anxiety and depression. Nor is there any evidence of any cognitive impairment which would have prevented Mrs B from 
understanding what she was doing.
Im satisfied the documentation provided to Mrs B about the mortgage explains how it 
worked, and that Mrs B also had advice from her own solicitors. The solicitors confirmed to 
Aviva that theyd explained the terms of the mortgage to Mrs B, as well as the implications of 
entering into the loan. If the solicitors had had any concerns about Mrs Bs ability to 
comprehend what she was doing, they were under a duty to inform Aviva and stop the 
mortgage from being completed. But it appears that neither Aviva nor Mrs Bs solicitors had 
any concerns in this regard.
The interest rate: I dont have any power to tell Aviva what interest rate it should charge on 
this mortgage; thats a matter for its own commercial judgment, and is subject to oversight by 
the FCA.
Generally, equity release mortgages are priced at a higher rate of interest than standard 
residential mortgages. Aviva is under no obligation to alter the interest rate to mirror 
fluctuations in variable rate mortgages  because the contract is for a fixed rate of interest. 
The product is structured to reflect the fact that Aviva has lent money over a long term with 
no return on its funds until the mortgage ends  which could be in 25 or 30 years from the 
date it was taken out. The implications of this on the overall amount owed are explained 
clearly in the documents.
So when the contract was entered into, Aviva advanced the funds in the knowledge that it 
would probably receive no interest or capital for many years. And Mrs B knew she had the 
use of the money without needing to make any repayment, with this eventually coming out of 
the equity in her home.
I appreciate that compound interest over the years since the mortgage was taken out has 
increased the amount the estate has had to pay to redeem the mortgage. But Im unable to 
find Aviva did anything wrong in structuring its product in this way. It is the same product 
structure used for most equity release mortgages, and so is standard across the industry. 
Aviva not freezing interest: The FCA set out guidelines for lenders to follow to help 
mortgage borrowers experiencing financial difficulties during the pandemic, such as payment 
breaks where payments are deferred for several months and repaid later on. 
Those guidelines, however, do not apply to equity release mortgages  either where the 
borrower is still alive or where the borrower has passed away. Thats because the guidelines 
are to help borrowers who are having difficulty making repayments. As no repayments are 
due under an equity release mortgage and all interest is deferred in any event, there was no 
need for there to be any deferral of interest, as this is provided for in the contract.
The terms and conditions of the contract allow Aviva to continue to charge interest pending a 
sale of the property. I appreciate that, due to lockdown, the property took longer to sell than 
anticipated. But I see the property was marketed after Probate had been granted in March 
2020, and that a buyer was found in June 2020. I am told the property was sold in January 
2021. It doesnt appear that the delay in completing the sale is as a result of anything for 
which I can hold Aviva responsible.
My final decision
I appreciate Mrs F will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Executors of 
the estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman