DRN-2810284
The complaint
Mr H complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr H was provided with two loans by Mr Lender, one in September 2017 and one in March 
2018. The details of the loans are provided below.
Loan Date Date Amount Instalments
1 15/09/2017 23/03/2018 £300.00 6
2 25/03/2018 Outstanding £500.00 6
Mr H says that the loans were unaffordable. He says he had to pay off the first loan to get a 
second but then couldnt afford to make the repayments.
Mr Lender says that before the loans were provided it carried out affordability and credit 
checks and verified Mr Hs employment. It says that Mr H was unable to make the 
repayment due on his second loan and after contact attempts failed his account was passed 
to a debt collection agency. In its final response letter Mr Lender made a gesture of goodwill 
offer which Mr H didnt accept at the time. It later confirmed the offer was no longer 
available.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. 
Mr H requested his complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Mr Hs first loan was for £300 repayable over six monthly instalments with the highest being 
£106. Before the loan was provided information about Mr Hs income and expenses was 
gathered. He declared a monthly income of £890 and monthly expenses of £542. I note 
Mr Lenders comments that it confirmed Mr Hs employment. Given this was Mr Hs first loan 
with Mr Lender and noting the repayment amount compared to his income I find it was 
reasonable that Mr Lender relied on the information received and I find the checks were 
proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the loan, I do not find I 
have enough to say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mr H repaid the first loan and then took out a second loan two days later. The second loan 
was for a larger amount, £500. Taking out new borrowing immediately after repaying existing 
debt can be a sign of a consumer struggling to manage their money. However, as this was 
only Mr Hs second loan I do not find I can say at this stage any pattern of borrowing had 
been established. Information about Mr Hs income and expenses was gathered before the 
loan was provided and these were consistent with the previous loan, leaving a disposable 
monthly income of £348. The highest monthly repayment due under the second loan was 
just under £185. Given the size of the repayments compared to Mr Hs income and noting 
this was only his second loan I find the checks were proportionate. As these suggested the 
loan was affordable I do not find I have enough evidence to say this loan shouldnt have 
been provided.
Based on the above, I do not uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against PDL Finance Limited trading 
as Mr Lender.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman