DRN-2045597
The complaint
Mr Ps complained that he couldnt make payments to the credit card account he has with 
MBNA Limited (MBNA).  So his account fell into arrears.
What happened
Mr P took out a credit card with MBNA a number of years ago.  At the time he was living in 
the UK.  But hes since moved overseas.  Because of this, he now only has a Euro bank 
account.  So, he has to make payments in Euros, which are then converted to Sterling to pay 
his MBNA bill.
In July 2019, MBNA rejected Mr Ps payment.  He thought this was because hed used the 
wrong payee details  MBNA had been taken over by Lloyds Banking Group, but he hadnt 
had to change the payment details immediately.  But, when he sent a payment using 
MBNAs updated details, that was rejected as well.
Mr P contacted MBNA and his bank about the problem  but neither of them could say why 
the payments werent being accepted.  So Mr P complained to MBNA.  He was concerned 
that arrears would build up because he couldnt make payments.  He said hed lost money 
when his payments had been returned because of the exchange rates.  And he was worried 
not making payments would affect his credit score.  He said he wanted the complaint 
resolved by MBNA writing off the outstanding balance on the card.  And he wanted them to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
MBNA looked at Mr Ps complaint.  They offered him £50 for inconvenience and £60 towards 
the cost of the calls hed made to them.  But they said hed need to ask his bank to do a 
trace of the funds before they could do anything more.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with MBNAs response, so he brought his complaint to us.  Our 
investigator looked into the matter.  He spent some time establishing what information Mr P 
had been providing, and what information MBNA needed to process the payment.  Following 
instructions our investigator got from MBNA and passed onto him, Mr P was able to make 
payments at the end of October.
Our investigator then considered Mr Ps complaint.  He thought that MBNA hadnt told Mr P 
what information they needed for the payment to be accepted  he hadnt found out what he 
needed to do until the investigator passed on the information from MBNA.  So he thought 
MBNA should write off the interest and charges theyd applied for the period when Mr P first 
had a problem and when hed made a successful payment.  And that MBNA should remove 
any markers for this period from his credit file.  Finally he said that MBNA should pay Mr P 
£200 compensation (the £50 theyd already offered, plus an extra £150).  But he didnt think 
it was fair to ask them to write off the outstanding balance.
I made a provisional decision about Mr Ps complaint.  I agreed with the investigator that 
MBNA should pay Mr P £200 compensation and that they should amend his credit file.  But I 
said I thought they should also pay him the £50 theyd previously offered for the losses Mr P 
suffered due to changing exchange rates.  And I said I didnt think they should write off the 
interest for the period  but they should recalculate it and only charge Mr P the interest they 
would have done had he been able to make minimum payments.
MBNA agreed with my decision.  But Mr P didnt.  He thought he should also be paid the £60 
MBNA had offered him for telephone calls.  And he still thought that I should decide that 
MBNA should write off his outstanding balance so the account could be closed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint.  Ill explain why.  
In mid-2019, Mr P suddenly couldnt make payments on his credit card.  He couldnt do so 
again until after our investigator had intervened and got MBNA to clarify what he had to do.  
As I said in my provisional decision, it shouldnt have taken a complaint to our service to give 
Mr P the information he needed.  
The problem seems to have arisen because Mr P lives overseas and couldnt make 
payments in sterling.  MBNA staff did try to help Mr P by referring him to their website for 
guidance (which didnt help).  And they did suggest alternative payment methods Mr P could 
try  but these didnt take account of Mr Ps own circumstances.  I cant see that anyone 
listened to the details of his concern and tried to address that.  So I can see why Mr P was 
frustrated.  And I think he deserves some compensation for that. 
Putting things right
Mr P thinks the right outcome to his complaint is for me to write off what he owes MBNA.  I 
know there was a period when he couldnt pay.  But he owes MBNA a substantial amount.  
And I dont think its a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint for me to write that off.
I think what is fair and reasonable is for me to put Mr P into the position he wouldve been in, 
had he been able to make payments in mid-2019.  Ive seen from the documents on the file 
that he tried to make payments of around the minimum due (he couldnt make an exact 
payment, because of exchange rate fluctuations).  
So I think MBNA should recalculate the interest they charged him in that period and make an 
adjustment, so Mr P doesnt pay interest on the missed minimum payments.  He wasnt 
charged for missing payments - so theres no need for an adjustment there.  And MBNA 
should remove any missed payment data recorded on his credit file between July and 
October 2019.
And its fair that MBNA should pay compensation for not providing Mr P with the details he 
needed to make payments until our service became involved.  I said in my provisional 
decision that I thought the right amount of compensation for the trouble and upset this 
caused Mr P was £200.  Nothing Ive received since has changed my view on this.
In addition to the compensation, I was minded to direct that MBNA also pay Mr P £50 for 
losses hed suffered due to exchange rate fluctuations.  Ive not received any comments on 
this so Im including it in my final decision.
In his reply to my provisional decision, Mr P did ask that he be awarded the £60 MBNA 
previously offered him for the cost of phone calls hed made.  MBNA have confirmed theyre 
still willing to offer this.  Ive seen evidence Mr P had to make a number of calls.  So I think 
its fair MBNA pay him that amount, as well as the other sums Im directing.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about MBNA Limited and 
directing MBNA to pay him
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they caused him;
£50 to reimburse him for the loss he suffered from exchange rate movements; and
£60 towards the costs of making calls to MBNA.
And to
recalculate the interest charged on the account for the period he couldnt make 
payments; and
remove any missed payment data recorded on his credit file between July and 
October 2019. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman