DRN-4332449
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the quality of a used car he acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo Finance Limited. 
What happened
In April 2022 Mr T acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo. 
The car was first registered in June 2016. It had covered around 69,000 miles and had a 
cash price of around £27,000. Mr T paid a £2,000 deposit and the agreement was to be paid 
back over five years with monthly payments of around £500. 
A couple of weeks after acquiring the car Mr T contacted MotoNovo about issues, and he 
says the car was returned to the supplying dealer for a gearbox repair that took around nine 
weeks. Mr T says hes unable to provide more information on the repair in terms of what the 
issue was. He says he asked for a receipt or description of the works carried out but wasnt 
given one. He says it took weeks of diagnostics before anything was done. He says the car 
wasnt picked up until the start of June 2022 and was returned around the third week of July 
2022. Mr T says he requested a courtesy car as he needed it for work but one wasnt 
available until the car was taken to be repaired. He says he was asked to travel around 400 
miles to pick it up which wasnt viable. Instead, Mr T says he hired a vehicle for nine weeks 
and that MotoNovo compensated him £200 but this didnt cover the full cost. 
Mr T says he had to pay a further £250 to the supplying dealer to have the car returned after 
the gearbox repair and that he received £150 towards this from MotoNovo. 
Mr T says he thinks the gearbox issue was fully resolved. But he says he noticed the car 
wasnt returned in a good condition and there was a warning light for another fault. Mr T says 
he took the car to a manufacturer approved garage, and it replaced a filter. Mr T says this 
cost around £400 but he received £300 towards this from the supplying dealer. Mr T says he 
had to pay for a few other things to be fixed or replaced as well, such as the air conditioning 
and tyres.
Mr T says after the repair from the manufacturer approved garage the car went into limp 
mode and a further engine management light came on. Mr T says he took it back to the 
manufacturer approved garage because he thought it may have been linked to the filter 
repair, but he says the garage told him it was a new fault relating to the turbo underboost. 
The garage quoted around £1,500 to repair it. He says the supplying dealer asked for other 
quotes, but he says other garages werent able to help. Mr T says he felt unsafe driving the 
car so hired a replacement for a couple of months. And he eventually decided to purchase 
another car. 
In summary, Mr T said he drives around 2,000 miles per month and that since acquiring the 
car (under the agreement with MotoNovo), its driven around 5,000 miles with 1,000 being 
covered by the supplying dealer. 
Mr T complained to MotoNovo and it arranged for an independent report to be carried out in 
November 2022. At this point the mileage was around 76,000. The inspector said the fault 
code present on the car (relating to turbo underboost) was more consistent with a partial 
blockage of the diesel particulate filter (DPF) and/or restriction in movement of the EGR 
valve. The inspector thought most likely it was likely a combination of both. The inspector 
said this sort of repair should be regarded as routine maintenance on a vehicle thats 
covered 76,000 miles. He concluded the repair was not the responsibility of the supplier, and 
that the goods were of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Mr T wanted to reject the car. Unhappy with the response from MotoNovo, he brought his 
complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things but didnt make any 
recommendations. He said the recent fault wasnt related to previous repairs and that it is as 
a result of normal wear and tear. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said even though all the faults werent related the car shouldnt have 
had so many faults within such a short time. He says MotoNovo indicated it would look into 
him being able to reject the car. He said its not fair he purchased a car for almost £30,000 
and it had issues straight away.
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr T and MotoNovo that 
Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our 
powers allow me to do this. 
Mr T acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. While I 
appreciate it looks like MotoNovo thought the initial complaint about the gearbox fault was 
resolved, Ive had to take this fault into account when deciding matters. Its relevant to the 
wider circumstances of the complaint. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr T entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the quality of goods is satisfactory. 
MotoNovo is the trader for the purposes of the CRA and is therefore responsible for dealing 
with a complaint about the quality.
The CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant 
circumstances. For this case, I think the other relevant circumstances include the age and 
mileage of the car at the point of delivery.
In Mr Ts case, the car supplied was used and had covered around 69,000 miles. Thered be 
different expectations than if it was a brand-new car. But its worth pointing out the cars cash 
price was around £27,000. So I can understand why Mr T would have been disappointed 
having any issues with it shortly after acquiring it. 
Ive thought about the main faults as they happened in sequence. 
Gearbox
Theres a lack of evidence in relation to what happened with regards to the gearbox. Ive not 
been supplied a copy of a job card for example. What Ive been told is that there was a fault with the gearbox that Mr T noticed within a couple of weeks of acquiring the car. And Mr T 
says it took around nine weeks to diagnose and repair the fault, but that it was repaired. 
For me to say thered been a breach of contract in relation to the gearbox, Id like to have 
more detail. But, in the absence of anything to show otherwise, given Mr T had just acquired 
the car for £27,000, even though it was used and had covered around 69,000 miles, I dont 
think hed have expected it to be off the road for a gearbox repair for nine weeks. Mr T 
wasnt asked to pay for the repairs. And theres no suggestion MotoNovo wasnt liable to 
resolve the issue. So Im minded to say there likely was a breach of contract in relation to the 
gearbox, but that the repair has remedied that. However, if Im to accept theres been a 
breach of contract in relation to the gearbox, I dont think Mr T should lose out as a result. I 
think therefore that MotoNovo needs to do something to put things right. 
On balance, I dont think Mr T should be out of pocket as a result of the issues with the 
gearbox. We asked for evidence of the costs Mr T says hes incurred. But hes not supplied 
that yet. I think to resolve this part of the complaint MotoNovo should reimburse Mr T for the 
costs he had to pay to transport the car to and from the supplying dealer for repair. And it 
should also cover the cost of the hire car. It can deduct from this amount any payments its 
already made in relation to those costs. It should also pay annual interest on these amounts. 
Mr T will need to supply evidence to MotoNovo of the costs hes incurred, and the payments 
hes made. 
I also think MotoNovo should compensate Mr T in recognition of the inconvenience caused 
as a result of problems with the gearbox. It must have been really disappointing to have 
acquired a car for £27,000 and have it off road for such a long time not long after taking 
possession of it. It looks like Mr T had the trouble of arranging its transport as well as having 
to hire a car himself. So I think MotoNovo should compensate Mr T £150. 
Later faults
Mr T paid around £400 in September 2022 in relation to a filter change. Hes received £300 
back for this from the supplying dealer. Ive thought about whether MotoNovo should 
reimburse him for the rest of the repair. But the problem is that I simply dont have any 
evidence for what was wrong and what the cause of the fault was. Unlike with the gearbox 
issue, which seemed like a significant fault that happened shortly after taking possession of 
the car, by the time the filter needed changing Mr T had the car for a few months. Filters 
often need to be replaced as part of regular maintenance. Ive not seen enough to show the 
problem with the filter was as a result of the car not being of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr T. So I dont consider Ive seen enough evidence to say MotoNovo needs to 
reimburse Mr T the rest of the cost for this repair. 
Similarly, I can see Mr T has mentioned problems with other things like the air conditioning 
and the tyres. But Ive not been shown any evidence the faults were as a result of the car 
being of unsatisfactory quality, or that MotoNovo should be held responsible. So I dont have 
the grounds to direct MotoNovo to take any action in relation to those problems either. Ive finally thought about the most recent fault in relation to the turbo underboost. While I 
appreciate Mr T doesnt agree with the independent report, thats the only independent 
evidence we have of the most recent problems with the car. I acknowledge the mileage of 
the car may be higher as a result of having to be sent for previous repairs. But I have to be 
mindful that Mr T had the car for a few months by this point, and it had covered over 76,000 
miles. MotoNovo arranged for the independent report which I think was fair of it. But theres 
no grounds to direct MotoNovo to pay to have further repairs carried out given what the 
report says. And theres no grounds to say he should be able to reject the car at this point 
because I cant find MotoNovo, as the supplier of the goods, is responsible for the problems 
relating to the turbo underboost. 
Conclusion
For the reasons given above, based on the limited evidence Ive been supplied, I dont think 
Mr T should lose out as a result of the issues with the gearbox. But Ive not seen enough 
evidence MotoNovo is responsible for the problems relating to other faults. I appreciate Mr T 
doesnt think a car that cost around £27,000 should have so many problems within the first 
few months. But Im reliant on the evidence supplied. Id need to see evidence the faults 
were as a result of something that made the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr T. Without that, Im not able to direct MotoNovo to allow Mr T to reject the car 
or cover the cost of repair of the more recent faults. 
I said I was intending to direct MotoNovo to reimburse Mr T the cost of transporting the car 
for the gearbox repair, and for any hire car costs incurred during this period. I said MotoNovo 
can offset payments its already made. Interest should be added to these amounts at a rate 
of 8% per year simple, from the date of payments to the date of settlement. And that 
MotoNovo should also pay Mr T £150 compensation. 
Since writing the decision Ive been in touch with both parties. MotoNovo gave some more 
information about what had been paid out already. And Mr T supplied details of the hire car. 
Mr T said that as per advice hed stopped making payments around November 2022 while 
the investigation was ongoing. He said he was unsure if he could get the current fault fixed 
under warranty. He wanted to know more about the first fault to see if it was linked to the 
more recent issues. And that he wanted any missed payments removed off his credit file. 
I wrote to both parties again to say it looked like Mr T had received a full refund for the cost 
of the transport from various parties, so I wasnt proposing MotoNovo took any more action 
for that. I also explained that Id looked at the hire car invoices which totalled around £1,500 
for the relevant period. But I said I was conscious the invoices were made out to a business. 
Id not seen Mr T had paid for the hire car. And that it wasnt clear the hire car was 
comparable to the car hired under the MotoNovo agreement. 
Having considered the evidence I said I was minded to amend my decision to say that 
instead of reimbursing Mr T for the hire costs, MotoNovo should reimburse him two monthly 
payments to cover the period he was without the car. This seemed broadly fair in the round. I 
said MotoNovo should still pay Mr T £150 compensation. I said to Mr T that I could only base 
my decision based on the evidence presented by the parties and reiterated what Id set out 
in my provisional decision. I also highlighted to MotoNovo that Mr T had queried what would 
happen with the missed payments. MotoNovo proposed the refund and compensation were put towards the arrears. It also 
explained it told Mr T to maintain his payments, and that it made attempts to contact him 
when it was asked to put things on hold. Mr T responded to say hed tried to obtain evidence 
of the initial repair but wasnt able to. He also said the hire car was arranged through work 
and it was paid for using his car allowance. He said he needed a large vehicle and that if 
hed have hired a like for like vehicle the price would have been double. He also explained 
again he was unhappy to have to keep a car that hell have to repair, and that it went wrong 
shortly after he acquired it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank the parties for their responses. I appreciate Mr T would like more evidence 
relating to the gearbox fault to see if theres any link to the current issues. Id also have liked 
to have seen more. But as I explained to him, I can only base my decision on the evidence 
thats submitted. I have to bear in mind theres an independent report that says the current 
fault isnt linked, and that it wouldnt have been an inherent issue from when Mr T acquired 
the car. So, based on that, along with the age and mileage of the car I dont have the 
evidence to say the current fault is in relation to something that made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality  when Mr T acquired it. 
I can understand why Mr T is unhappy that things went wrong not long after he acquired the 
car. The problems arent minor. But without sufficient evidence, I dont have the grounds to 
say he should be able to reject the car. 
Im satisfied that refunding Mr T two months payments is fair in the circumstances to 
recognise the loss of use he had of the car. And for the reasons I explained, I think this is 
fairer than directing MotoNovo to reimburse Mr T the hire car costs. MotoNovo has said this 
should be offset against the arrears. I agree this would be sensible, but Ill leave that to Mr T 
to decide. 
For the reasons given in my provisional decision. I find a payment of £150 to be fair to 
compensate Mr T in relation to the gearbox fault. 
Finally, I also note Mr T wants his credit file cleared of adverse information. This wasnt 
something that was brought as part of Mr Ts initial complaint. So MotoNovo hasnt had the 
chance to respond to this. I think Mr T will need to speak to MotoNovo about his options. 
And if hes unhappy with how it treats him, it may be something our service is able to 
consider. I dont think it would be right to prescribe exactly what needs to happen in this 
decision. I can see we did pass on a request for the agreement to be put on hold while we 
investigated the complaint. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I cant see we ever advised Mr T 
to stop making payments. Putting things on hold is generally at the discretion of the 
business. 
Id recommend Mr T speaks to MotoNovo about a fair way forward. And Id remind 
MotoNovo to treat him with forbearance and due consideration if hes unable to clear the 
arrears straight away. Id also suggest it looks closely at what happened when we passed on 
Mr Ts request for the agreement be put on hold while we investigate, and think carefully 
about whether having missed payments recorded is fair in the circumstances. I dont know 
exactly what happened so, for completeness sake, Im not making any directions or 
commenting on that as part of this decision. Putting things right
MotoNovo Finance Limited should refund Mr T the equivalent of two monthly payments for 
the loss of use (less what its already paid in relation to the hire car costs). It should also pay 
him £150 compensation. 
Mr T may wish to ask MotoNovo to pay the refund towards the arrears. But Ill leave that up 
to him to decide.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to put 
things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman