DRN-2356146
The complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France IARD, 
as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to 
AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mr B bought the policy in 1995, at the same time as taking out a store card in the store.
I sent Mr B and AXA a provisional decision on 19 October 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Neither side still have the original records of the sale, which is unsurprising considering it 
was around two and a half decades ago. Indeed, under data protection rules, AXA were 
required to dispose of Mr Bs data rather than hold on to it for too long. Mr B doesnt 
remember agreeing to PPI, and I also think thats understandable either way, given just how 
long ago this sale was, and given that buying insurance is not often memorable. Ive thought 
carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for AXA to have misled Mr B into having PPI. And 
I have no evidence which shows thats what AXA did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process from the time. From what Ive seen, the process was 
normally to offer customers a choice, and to only set up a policy if the customer actively 
chose it. And Ive got nothing to show that this sale differed significantly from the normal 
process. So I think its most likely that AXA made Mr B aware he had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if he no longer 
remembers doing so after so many years.
AXA didnt give Mr B tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. They did have to give Mr B enough information to decide if the PPI was right for 
him.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mr B about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like he was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of Mr Bs sick pay and offered him more comprehensive cover  
especially for when his benefits reduced to just a fraction of his normal pay. And he doesnt 
appear to have had any other equivalent protection in place. So the policy could have been 
useful for Mr B in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly 
basis, so Mr B could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.
Lastly, Mr B mentioned that hed had a refund of a different PPI policy, and I understand why 
he raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different 
circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So even if 
one given policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a different one was, too. Ive 
explained above why I do not think that this particular policy was mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
16 November 2020. But neither Mr B nor AXA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman