DRN-3519471
Complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that Zopa Bank Limited offered her credit cards with credit limits that were 
unaffordable for her.
Background
Mrs D applied for two credit cards in January 2022 and March 2022 respectively. Both 
applications were approved by Zopa. The January application resulted in Zopa giving Mrs D 
a card with a credit limit of £500. The March application led to her being offered a card with a 
limit of £3,000.  
Mrs D says that Zopa didnt carry out sufficient checks to ensure that she could afford to take 
out this credit. In particular, she thinks more detailed checks shouldve been carried out 
when she made the second application because the increase in the credit limit was so 
significant. She said that (at the time) her income was low, and her credit score was poor. 
Shed defaulted on a previous credit card agreement in 2018 and this default was still visible 
on her credit file.
Her complaint was looked at by an Investigator who didnt recommend that it be upheld. The 
Investigator thought that Zopa hadnt acted unreasonably in deciding that Mrs D could afford 
a £500 or £3,000 credit limit, based on the information that was available to it at the time. 
Mrs D didnt agree with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the Investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. The relevant rules say that Zopa needed to take proportionate steps to 
check that a customer would be able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable 
manner without it adversely impacting their financial situation. In essence, Zopa had to 
gather enough information so that it could make an informed decision about the affordability 
of the lending. These rules dont set out compulsory checks that a lender must carry out, but 
they do list several things that could be considered when assessing whether or not credit 
was affordable. 
Mrs D was taking out an open-ended credit facility  so this means Zopas checks needed to 
provide it with enough information for it to be able to understand whether Mrs D would able 
to repay the credit card balance within a reasonable period. 
I can see that Zopa looked at information provided by Mrs D regarding her income and her 
most significant outgoings. It verified her income by carrying out a check with a credit 
reference agency. Its credit check also showed that all her existing forms of credit were up to 
date without any arrears. In respect of the second applicant, Zopa also had the evidence of 
how Mrs D had managed the first credit card. On the face of it, these details suggested the 
credit would be affordable for her.
I accept that Mrs Ds financial position may well have been worse than was suggested by 
either the credit check or any information she disclosed to Zopa at the time. However, Im 
satisfied that Zopa was entitled reasonably entitled to rely on these things when making its 
decision about whether to lend. 
In my view, the information obtained suggested that Mrs D would be able to repay the credit 
offered within a reasonable period, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. I therefore 
think it was reasonable for Zopa to lend in these circumstances. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman