DRN-2421676
The complaint
Miss H and Mr S complain that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) 
declined their wedding insurance claim.
What happened
Miss H and Mr S were due to get married on 21 March 2020 but cancelled their wedding in 
the days just prior to this. As a result of Covid-19, the government had advised people only 
to travel if it was essential. And bars, restaurants, cafes etc. had been asked to close on 20 
March and not re-open the following day. Miss H and Mr S told us that over 50% of their 
guests werent going to be attending the wedding. 
Acasta initially declined the claim on the basis of a General Exclusion which stated that 
losses arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country would be 
excluded. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He didnt think it would be fair to rely on the 
above exclusion on the basis that the policy said it would provide cover for closure of the 
venue by the relevant authority. He felt that it would be illogical for an insurance policy to 
cover the closure of a venue by the relevant authority (which could include the government) 
but then go on to exclude losses arising from regulations by the government. He suggested 
this would equate to giving cover with one hand and taking it away with the other. So he 
asked Acasta to reconsider the claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Acasta disagreed and the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I contacted Acasta informally to let it know that I was minded to agree that it couldnt rely on 
the prohibitive regulations exclusion to decline the claim. But my reason for this differed to 
that given by the investigator. I noted that weddings werent stopped until 23 March 2020, 
and the lockdown measures didnt become regulation until later on, so there werent any 
prohibitive regulations by the government on the date of the cancellation or the wedding. In 
response, Acasta offered to reconsider the claim. 
Acasta ultimately maintained its stance of declining the claim. It said the wedding was 
cancelled by Miss H and Mr S rather than the venue, and that the suppliers were ready to 
proceed with the wedding on the intended date. It noted that Miss H and Mr S had intended 
to rearrange the wedding but then cancelled entirely, which doesnt fall under the 
cancellation/rearrangement section of the policy. It also believed that an element of the 
ceremonial attire had been worn. So it offered £100 in compensation for declining the claim 
using the wrong exclusion, and it agreed to cover the costs of the wedding items sent to 
Acasta. 
I got in touch with Miss H and Mr S informally to let them know I was minded to agree that 
Acasta had acted fairly in declining the claim as the cancellation wasnt as a result of an 
insured event. Miss H and Mr S have asked for a formal decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint  and Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the policy show what the insurer and policyholder have agreed 
to. The policy terms are, in effect, the written contract explaining in what situations the 
insurer will be liable to bear the loss, should one occur  i.e. the insured perils. The starting 
position with any claim is for the insured to demonstrate that theyve suffered a loss as a 
result of one of these insured perils. And, if so, the insurer will pay the claim, subject to 
things like adherence to the correct claim procedure, but also subject to any General 
Exclusions that may apply to all sections of the policy. 
So, I need to first determine whether the loss was as a result of an insured peril. Under the 
cancellation section of the policy terms and conditions, it states that Acasta will pay for 
irrecoverable expenses incurred in respect of ceremonial attire, flowers, photographs, 
caterers, transport, accommodation and the services from any other wedding services 
supplier booked but not used as a direct result of the unavoidable cancellation or curtailment 
of the wedding as the result of one (or more) of eight reasons given. 
All but one of these reasons relate to non-appearance of wedding suppliers; loss or damage 
to ceremonial attire; redundancy; work involving the armed forces and/or emergency 
services; death, injury or sickness of the couple or closure relative; and adverse weather. 
So, as none of these above-listed reasons are applicable, the most relevant term is the 
following:
the booked venue for the Wedding or Wedding Reception being unable to hold Your 
wedding due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease, damage to the 
venue, murder or suicide at the premises or closure of the venue by the relevant 
authority
But the key part of this term is the venue being unable to hold the wedding. In this case, the 
venue was able to and allowed to proceed with wedding. I say this because, despite the 
message from the government in relation to bars, restaurants etc., weddings werent 
stopped until 23 March 2020. So as the venue was able to (and willing to) hold the wedding, 
the remainder of this term  which I dont consider to be ambiguous in any way  becomes 
irrelevant. And I also note that theres been no indication that any of the suppliers were 
unable or unwilling to attend. 
I understand Miss H and Mr Ss reasons for cancelling the wedding. I dont doubt that they 
were trying to do the right thing to ensure the safety of their guests and so they could have 
the wedding day theyd intended to have. But insurance doesnt cover every eventuality and 
it doesnt follow that their misfortune means that Acasta is required to pay the claim. As the 
reason for the cancellation wasnt one of the eight listed reasons, this wasnt an insured 
event, so Acasta hasnt acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
I can appreciate Miss H and Mr Ss strength on feeling on this matter. They believe the 
wedding venue shouldve cancelled the wedding following the government announcement 
on 20 March 2020. But it was allowed to proceed with the wedding and, had it not been 
cancelled by Miss H and Mr S, theres no reason to think it wouldnt have gone ahead. So 
the reason the wedding didnt go ahead was because Miss H and Mr S cancelled it, not 
because it couldnt.I also note that the policy allows for rearrangement of the wedding. It appears that Miss H 
and Mr S had intended to rearrange it. Its not clear what Miss H and Mr Ss losses wouldve 
been had they continued with the rearranged date, as opposed to cancelling, as some of the 
items that formed part of the claim would presumably have been able to be used on the later 
date. But Miss H and Mr S ultimately chose to cancel the wedding so this consideration falls 
away. 
For completeness, Id just like to refer back to the declinature surrounding the exclusion 
losses arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country. In their 
submissions to our service, Miss H and Mr S were explaining why they felt there was 
ambiguity around this term. But wed only need to explore this further if the loss was as a 
result of an insured peril and we were then going on to consider whether any of the general 
exclusions applied. But in the absence of an insured peril, this exclusion doesnt impact the 
outcome so I wont go into this further. 
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss H and Mr S, I dont think Acasta has 
acted unfairly or outside of its terms and condition by declining this claim  it wasnt an 
insured event under the policy. So I wont be asking it to do anything beyond fulfilling its offer 
to pay £100 for giving the incorrect reason for the decline initially and to refund the costs 
linked to sending the items to Acasta.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Acasta European 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman