DRN-3571562
The complaint
Ms L complains that Nationwide Building Society refuses to refund her losses after she fell 
victim to an investment scam.
What happened
Ms L was searching for investments online and came across a company Ill call M. She left 
her contact details on Ms webform and was contacted by an individual called Max who 
worked for them. Ms L was looking to reinvest monies from a bond that was due to mature 
(for the benefit of her daughter). Max introduced Ms L to a company Ill refer to as E and Ms 
L was told shed be able to invest in a fixed rate bond over three years with an option to exit 
after 18 months. Much of what Ms L understood about the bond and E was explained to her 
verbally but on 23 May 2018, M sent Ms L an email with further information about the E bond 
which provided the following:
Legal sign off from a legitimate financial services barrister;
A letter written by a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) authorised individual which 
stated: I have reviewed the draft investment contract and marketing materials 
(brochure and website) relating to your proposed issue of Bonds (the Documents). I 
confirm my approval of the Documents in accordance with s.21 FSMA and the 
Financial Promotion Order, SI 2005/1529.
A link to the FCA register which demonstrated the individual whod written the above 
letter was who he said he was; 
Details explaining the payment would be handled by an independent third party  a 
legitimate and authorised Escrow service. 
 
Ms L said Max informed her that E was registered on Companies House and during a call, 
helped her find the Companies House details online. Ms L said over numerous calls, Max 
reassured her and gave her confidence to invest in the bond he was recommending. He told 
her that banks were now starting to offer bonds for investors via Ms platform. Max told Ms L 
that the Bond with E was for three or five years but Ms L was reluctant to tie her money up 
for this long, so he advised her she could redeem the three year bond within 18 months by 
writing to E to activate an early redemption.  
Ms L said she believed that the advice she was being given was from someone who 
regularly advised people about investment bonds. Max told her that banks regularly use him 
to advise clients for investment purposes.
 
Ms L asked Max for a copy of the letter confirming the bond had been signed off by an FCA 
authorised person and he duly sent it to her. Max also explained to Ms L that a company 
called J were the FCA approved trustees for E and noted they were located in Reading. Max 
further explained to Ms L that an independent Escrow service would handle the transfer of 
funds to ensure the safety of the money involved. Ms L says she did not feel that she 
needed to go to an independent adviser. This was because she said she believed Max was 
an official investment representative who advises bank customers regularly about bond 
investments. 
On 19 June 2018 (following the maturity of her bond), Ms L sent a payment of £194,538.04 
to the Escrow service Ill refer to as R. She received a bond certificate from E in return. 
Ms L called Nationwide on 11 September 2019 to explain that she believed she was the 
victim of a scam and thought the company she was dealing with had been cloned. She 
explained she tried to pull out of the investment early - as she understood she could - but 
had not heard anything further from E. Ms L told Nationwide that she carried out several 
checks on E, including checking Companies House and their website and it all seemed 
legitimate. Ms L also explained that shed been in touch with Max who advised he was 
shocked by this. 
Ms L complained that Nationwides staff did not assist her when she asked for help in 
transferring the payments and instead suggested she should do it herself at home. She said 
shes dyslexic and felt it should have done more. Ms L says she made the payment online 
using a computer in a Nationwide branch. Ms L also felt that Nationwide ought to have 
noticed large amounts being transferred out of her account and asked some basic questions 
about why this was happening. 
Nationwide issued its final response letter on 31 January 2020. It explained it tried to recover 
Ms Ls payment and was unable to. It acknowledged it could have handled things better and 
paid Ms L £300 for the poor customer service she received in relation to this case and 
another scam report. The second scam report is being considered as a separate complaint 
at this service. 
Ms L referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators thought Nationwide 
should return her money. Nationwide didnt agree, in summary it said:
There is no evidence to suggest the payment was made in branch and its evidence 
confirms the payment was made via online banking. 
Ms L sent her payment to R, not the cloned company subject to an FCA warning. 
As the funds were sent to an Escrow account, the funds will have remained subject 
to Ms Ls approval in some form with R. 
Nationwide cant be held liable for Ms Ls onward payment from R. 
Any intervention from Nationwide at the point of the payment to R could only have 
gone as far as ensuring the money leaving the Nationwide account was being 
applied to the intended place. 
The loss arose from the payment from R to E. Her complaint about that payment lies 
with R. 
On 18 February 2022, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Not every complaint referred to us as an investment scam is in fact a scam. Some cases 
simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses. 
Some investment companies may have promoted products like mini-bonds (which is the 
subject of this dispute)which were not regulated by the FCAusing sales methods that 
were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice So, the first question to resolve is whether E was 
actually a scam.
It's taken quite some time for E to be recognised as operating a scam. Ive noted that in 
November 2021, E was wound up by the High Court. The Chief Investigator at the 
Insolvency Service noted that E induced investors by providing false and misleading 
statements in sales and marketing material to part with substantial sums of money to invest 
in property bonds with the promise of generous returns. In reality, this was a scam. Im 
therefore satisfied based on the credible evidence Ive seen that E was operating a scam.
Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain I must now go on to 
consider three more issues in order to determine the outcome of the complaint:
1. Was the payment of £194,538.04 Ms L made out of character and unusual and 
should Nationwide have intervened before processing the payment?
2. If so, would Nationwides intervention have made a difference and prevented or 
reduced the loss?
3. And if so, should Ms L bear some responsibility for the loss such that it would be fair 
and reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately.
Was the payment of £194,538.04 out of character and unusual and should Nationwide have 
intervened before processing the payment?
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Ms L for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Ms L using the legitimate security credentials provided to her by 
Nationwide. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Ms L was the 
victim of a scam. So, although she did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her account, Ms L is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I appreciate there is some dispute over whether Ms L made the payment using a Nationwide 
computer in branch, or online at her home. This isnt material to the outcome because I think 
the payment was out of character and unusual for Ms Ls account in any event. It was very 
large and immediately followed a large credit. I am satisfied Nationwide ought fairly and 
reasonably to have intervened by calling Ms L to ask some questions about the nature and 
purpose of the payment before agreeing to process it. 
Would Nationwides intervention have made a difference and prevented Ms Ls loss?If Nationwide had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason 
to doubt that Ms L would have explained what she was doing and that the purpose of the 
payment was to invest. 
In such circumstances, whilst Nationwide had no duty to protect her from a bad bargain or 
give investment advice, it should have asked Ms L some further questions to ascertain 
whether she was likely to be at risk of financial harm from fraud. Ive thought carefully about 
the sorts of questions Nationwide shouldve asked, bearing in mind the features of 
investment scams at that time.
 
At the time Ms L fell victim to the scam, investment scams carried common features. For 
example, these included rates of return which were too good to be true, receiving the 
opportunity to invest via an unsolicited offer and cold call, with fraudsters often applying 
pressure to their victims to invest quickly.
Against this backdrop Id have expected Nationwide to ask Ms L some questions to see if 
there were any signs that this was an investment scam (as described above). Had they done 
so, Im persuaded Ms L wouldve explained she had been actively looking to invest for the 
purpose of reinvesting the proceeds from a bond that was due to mature and had been given 
advice from her financial adviser. (Ive taken account of the fact that Ms L at one stage 
explained that the scam started following the receipt of a cold call from someone purporting 
to be Nationwide, but this differs from her initial submissions and so Im minded to place 
more weight on the first account given to Nationwide by Ms L.)
I think Ms L wouldve also disclosed that shed had time to think about the investment 
opportunity and had not been placed under any pressure to make a quick decision. I say this 
given some of the paperwork Ms L has been able to provide is dated approximately a month 
before the payment was made. Ms L would also have been able to disclose the indicated 
rate of return.
Upon receiving this information from Ms L, Im not persuaded Nationwide wouldve been 
concerned that Ms L was about to fall victim to an investment scam as there were no 
obvious indicators of what I consider to be well published investment scam typologies at the 
time. I accept the rate of return was higher than what a high street bank wouldve offered, 
but mini bonds do often have higher rates of return and I dont think it was too good to be 
true. I accept the rate of return potentially indicated a high risk investment, which might not 
have been suitable for Ms L, but as Ive explained, it would not have been Nationwides role 
to provide her with financial advice. 
Nevertheless, I think Nationwide shouldve gone on to ask Ms L what checks shed done to 
establish the legitimacy of the investment. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Ms L wouldve said in response. Of course, I cant 
know for sure, so Ive thought about what I think is more likely than not to have happened, 
taking into account the particular circumstances of this case. 
This was a particularly sophisticated investment scam. Whilst lots of the information Ms L 
received about the investment was provided verbally, I can see she was sent an email from 
Max which she said included a letter from an FCA authorised individual which said theyd 
reviewed the draft investment contract and marketing materials relating to the proposed 
investment and confirmed the approval of said documents in accordance with s.21 FSMA 
and the Financial Promotion Order. The email also provided a link to the FCA register 
enabling Ms L to verify this individual was authorised as described. The email from Max also referred to legal sign off of the investment by a financial services 
barrister, and included a link to the barristers Chambers.
 
Its my understanding that it is true that the FCA authorised individual initially approved the 
promotional materials for E, and that a barrister had provided a legal opinion on the structure 
of the investment. So I consider the information Ms L received from to have been particularly 
compelling at the time.
 
It is understandable that these documents and references, as well as the fact Ms L had 
checked out E on Companies House, convinced Ms L the investment was legitimate. 
So had Nationwide asked her what checks shed done to verify the legitimacy of the 
company, taking into account Ms Ls submissions and the evidence thats available, I think 
its more likely than not shed have disclosed that shed checked E on Companies House 
and that shed received paperwork demonstrating the investment had been approved by an 
authorised FCA individual and a financial services barrister. I dont think Ms L wouldve got 
into the detail of what these documents said, and I dont think Nationwide shouldve asked to 
see them in the circumstances of this case given there were no other indications of fraud. I 
think as a result its more likely than not Nationwide wouldve been satisfied Ms L wasnt at 
risk of falling victim to an investment scam, Ms L wouldve felt comfortable continuing with 
the payment, and it wouldve been processed. This wouldve been a reasonable step for 
Nationwide to take in the circumstances.
Even if Ms L did have concerns about investment scams following a conversation with 
Nationwide, which for the avoidance of doubt I dont think she would have, I think its more 
likely than not she would have directed them to Max rather than an independent third party 
and thats because she trusted him. Its also relevant that had Ms L attempted to verify the 
barrister and the FCA authorised individual, she wouldve discovered they were who shed 
been told they were. 
Its also notable there were no warnings at that time about E or mini-bonds as a product. Ive 
noted that the FCA published more information about mini-bonds in May 2019 and 
highlighted some risks involved with investing in such instruments. But this information was 
published almost a year after Ms L made her payment. 
The FCA temporarily banned the mass marketing of speculative mini-bonds to UK retail 
consumers from January 2020, whilst it consulted on permanent rules. It made the 
temporary ban permanent the following year. So I dont think Nationwide could have been 
reasonably aware of this given that this information was published over a year after Ms L 
made her payment. 
Its particularly relevant that it was only relatively recently decided that Es operation was 
effectively a scam, with negative press about E emerging after Ms L made the payment and 
the High Court deciding this was a scam in November 2021  so I dont think itd be 
reasonable to conclude that the scam wouldve been revealed by Nationwide or Ms L in mid-
2018.
So overall, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded intervention from Nationwide 
wouldve made a difference and prevented Ms Ls loss in the particular circumstances of this 
case. 
Finally, Ive considered the use of R (the escrow service) in this particular case. I think this 
added another layer of legitimacy to the set up. R was legitimate and authorised  it wasnt 
the cloned firm which had previously been in operation.
  I have considered the fact Ms L asked R a question when it was conducting security checks 
on her. Ms L asked the adviser what guarantee R had received from E that the bond 
certificate was legitimate as it was such a large transaction. The adviser explained that his 
knowledge was limited but that he believed R gave both parties security for the transaction 
and that he would check with his colleague.
 
The adviser followed up with an email to Ms L confirming that the escrow provided security 
to both parties for the transactional part of the process and that upon receipt of the 
certificate, they would release the funds to E. R said if she required any further assurances 
as to the project, it would be best to contact E directly. Ms Ls interaction with R occurred 
after shed sent the payment from Nationwide and the evidence suggests she was still happy 
to proceed following the response she received from R. As Ive explained previously, Im of 
the view that had Ms L had any doubts about the legitimacy of the investment, shed have 
gone back to Max for reassurance.
 
I know that Ms Ls late husband suffered ill health prior to her introduction to Max and her 
decision to invest with E and that she feels she should have waited for him to get better to 
consult him about it. But Ms L did not make an immediate decision, she had around a month 
to think about it and had time to carry out the necessary research before making the decision 
to invest. I dont think its a decision she made lightly, given the checks shes said she made.
I know that Ms L has found this whole matter traumatic and is vulnerable which Im 
empathetic to. I also understand she is dyslexic and has had very difficult personal 
circumstances. But Ive not seen any independent expert evidence that would suggest that 
Ms L was not capable of making investment decisions, even high-risk ones, at the time of 
her payment. She had previous experience investing large sums in bonds, so she was not 
new to investing, albeit her late husband was not involved in her investment decision with E 
and was likely involved with her investment decisions in the past.
 
Given Ive found that its more likely than not intervention from Nationwide wouldnt have 
made a difference and exposed the scam, it is unnecessary for me to go on to consider 
whether Ms L should share any responsibility for the loss she incurred.
 
But I want to be clear that I understand Ms L fell victim to a very sophisticated scam. She is 
not to blame for this; the cruel scammers are to blame.
Nationwide did what Id expect it to do by attempting to recover the payment following Ms Ls 
report. It was unfortunately unable to which it communicated to Ms L on 5 November 2019.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
Nationwide replied to my provisional findings explaining it had nothing further to add. 
Ms Ls representative replied on her behalf. For ease of reading, Ill treat Ms Ls 
representatives responses as having come from her alone. 
Ms L didnt agree with my provisional decision and provided some further information. Ive 
grouped and summarised the key points below, where points repeat the background section 
of this decision, Ive not included them:
Background
In February 2018, Es Security Trustee withdrew its services because E failed to 
comply with anti-money-laundering and liquidity requirements.
In March 2018, a firm Ill call M Group was appointed as Es Security Trustee.
In April 2018 Ms L was contacted by Max posing as a broker.In June 2018, Ms L made five payments (£25,806.11, £25,699.84, £25,852.84, 
£29,000 and £34,460) to M Group towards the E bond. 
E told Ms L that M Group was having trouble with their banking provider so the funds 
would be returned to an account Ms L held with a different bank. She was then 
introduced to R. 
On 18 June 2018 at 13:46 a member of staff transferred £195,265.33 from one of Ms 
Ls accounts to another. In absence of any details, Ms L likely initiated the CHAPS 
payment while she was in branch. She has severe dyslexia and struggles to use a 
computer and this was a very important, high value, time sensitive transaction, and 
she was already in a Nationwide branch. 
On 19 June 2018 at 08:31, Nationwide processed the CHAPS payment to R. 
What Nationwide knew or could reasonably have found out
Nationwide could have found out important information or provided clear advice of 
what Ms L needed to find out or validate before processing the payment. 
Nationwide knew that a large sum of money had credited a Smart Account that 
exceeded the amount that was allowed in it. 
Nationwide knew Ms L was acting on behalf of a child, although the account is in the 
name of the adult, the money in it is held for and belongs to the child. 
Nationwide was involved in the transfer of 195,265 from the Smart Account to Ms Ls 
personal account. 
Nationwide could reasonably have been expected to identify Ms Ls vulnerability that 
resulted from her dyslexia (in accordance with Section 7 of BSI PAS 17271). 
Nationwide would have been aware that Companies House is no more than a 
repository of unvalidated data, simply recording that a company has registered. It 
does not prove that the company is legitimate. 
In response to open questions, Nationwide could have established  the source of 
the funds (had previously been returned from M as they couldnt pay the money to E) 
and Ms L was now using a different escrow service which was a red flag; Max 
presented himself as an advisor for bond investments on behalf of banks, he claimed 
to work with M but neither M nor Max were listed on the FCA register, it is unlawful 
for unauthorised individuals or firms to act this way and would have been an 
immediate red flag; it is possible Max had links or had worked for a company called 
ABM, a simple phone call would have established this point and a news article 
reported that in January 2018 ABM had their offices raided by police and acted 
unlawfully and the FCA would reasonably have been aware of this; Es initial Security 
Trustee withdrew their services; M Group returned Ms Ls money to her as they were 
unable to pay E; Max provided Ms L with a letter that appeared to come from an FCA 
authorised individual but if Nationwide had sought to validate this letter, or had 
advised Ms L to validate it, they would have established that approval for Es financial 
promotions were removed in late February 2018 and this was communicated to E in 
early March 2018; Ms L has not been able to properly read and consider the Barrister 
sign off due to her dyslexia; the very high rate of return which Ms L was due to 
receive would have indicated a significant level of risk; whilst recognising that Ms L 
had been in contact with Max for up to two months the situation that had developed 
with M Group put her under considerable pressure to make the payment quickly.
Nationwide should have intervened 
Nationwides staff should have intervened because of Ms Ls dyslexia and in 
accordance with the BSI code.Nationwide received an amount larger than the maximum permitted into the Smart 
Account and a further large amount was paid to a new payee. This should have 
raised concerns of possible Money Laundering. 
The amount of money paid to R should have triggered Nationwide to intervene in 
accordance with the BSI. 
The money was being paid to an escrow company having just been paid into her 
daughters Smart Account from another escrow company. 
Because some of the transactions happened in branch, it gave Nationwide the 
opportunity to have a face to face conversation and provide greater assistance and 
more effective advice preventing Ms L from becoming the victim of fraud. 
What difference would the intervention have made
The FCA Handbook explains that the purpose of an escrow service is to transfer 
funds from a payer to a payee. 
If Nationwide had fulfilled its obligation, Ms L would not have gone ahead with the 
payment at that time because Ms L relied heavily on the advice given to her by Max 
and had not appreciated the level of risk associated with the promised returns; whilst 
its accepted that Nationwide were not required to give investment advice, the BSI 
Code says they should keep their customers informed about potential risks and she 
would have accepted Nationwides advice based on their long relationship; Ms L 
understood that Max worked for banks including Nationwide and Nationwide would 
have known this wasnt true and that he wasnt registered with the FCA; Ms L is 
financially nave and did not understand the role of Trustees and didnt recognise that 
when M Group returned the money there were warning signs which Nationwide 
would have recognised. If Nationwide had advised Ms L to contact M Group they 
may have explained why her money was being returned including their concerns with 
E; If Nationwide had advised her to check the identity of the FCA authorised 
individual she would have discovered that the document Max gave her was out of 
date causing her to doubt Max; Nationwide would have discovered that she was 
feeling extremely stressed because she was rushed into making the payment, if 
Nationwide had warned her that this could indicate fraud, she might have delayed 
making the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to acknowledge the lengths Ms L has gone to, to support her case. I 
understand her losses have had a severe impact, not only on her finances for herself and 
her daughter, but also mentally and emotionally. I have a great deal of sympathy for the 
situation in which she finds herself, but that of itself isnt enough for me to uphold her 
complaint. I can only do so, if I find Nationwide did something wrong, or it failed to do 
something it ought to have done, and that her losses flowed from that. 
I agreed in my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision) that Nationwide 
ought to have intervened when Ms L made her payment to R. I still think it ought to have 
intervened. Theres some ambiguity about how the transfer to R was initiated but Nationwide 
doesnt dispute that Ms L would have set the payment up in branch on a Nationwide 
computer and in my opinion, as I explained in my provisional decision, this ought to have 
prompted a face to face conversation between Ms L and Nationwide. 
Ive thought very carefully about how this conversation would have gone. I think it would have been reasonable for Nationwide to question what due diligence checks 
Ms L carried out. Despite Ms Ls suggestion in her response to my provisional decision that 
Max contacted her, she was clear in her testimony that she was actively searching for 
investment options as her bond was due to mature and came across M herself. She 
proactively contacted M and was put in touch with Max who worked for M. She wasnt for 
instance, contacted out of the blue or via cold call (a potential warning sign of a scam). 
I still think Ms L would likely have explained if appropriately probed, that she was being 
helped by her financial adviser. I think its more likely than not that Ms L would have referred 
to Max as her financial adviser because by her own admission, she trusted him and theyd 
been in contact for some months prior to her payment to R. Max was not a new individual to 
her. I think Ms L relied on Max to assist her and wouldve placed more weight on what he 
told her rather than Nationwide in any event. 
I dont think Ms L would have discussed (nor do I think Nationwide ought to have probed any 
further in the circumstances) her relationship with Max any further other than explaining he 
was her financial adviser. I take Ms Ls point that Max was not regulated by the FCA but I 
dont see that he purported to be. I dont think Ms L reasonably relied on a misrepresentation 
that Max or M were regulated by the FCA  particularly as the bonds they offered her were 
not regulated by the FCA. There is also a difference in the regulation required for those 
offering advice (which does require regulation) and those offering guidance (which doesnt 
require regulation). So for these reasons and those I set out in my provisional decision, Im 
still not persuaded that Ms L or Nationwide would have had cause to doubt the legitimacy of 
Max or M. 
I also think its unreasonable to have expected Nationwide to speculate that Max had been 
involved in a company called ABM, or to indeed know that he hadnt worked for Nationwide. 
As I explained above, I dont think the conversation about Max would have gotten any further 
than establishing he was Ms Ls financial adviser. 
I accept Ms Ls point that the returned payments from M Group might have been a red flag 
but Ive noted from the evidence provided by Ms L that these payments were returned to an 
account she held with another banking provider, not Nationwide. So I dont think Nationwide 
could reasonably have known of M Groups involvement or that payments shed attempted to 
send to E via M Group were returned to her. But even if I accept that with further probing, 
Nationwide would have uncovered this (which I find very unlikely), I think Ms L would have 
explained that M Group were having issues with their bank, so shed instructed another 
escrow service (R) so that she could pay E. This is after all what the letter from E explained 
about the return of her funds and it doesnt appear Ms L had concerns with this at the time 
because she instructed the services of R shortly after this occurred. I think any concerns on 
Nationwides part would have been alleviated by the fact that M Group and R were both 
legitimate companies. But even if I think Nationwide ought to have suggested Ms L make 
further enquiries about the return of the funds with M Group directly, its pure speculation M 
Group would have disclosed any concerns it might have had with her, particularly given the 
consequences of tipping off and that this would be commercially sensitive information. I 
therefore dont find this point persuasive.
In relation to Ms Ls suggestion that she was under pressure to pay, Im not persuaded of 
this from the information Ive seen. Shed planned to invest her funds months before the 
funds were available to invest. I accept she may have been stressed because she didnt 
want to miss out on earning interest on her bond as it had matured and wasnt earning very 
much interest uninvested but Ive not seen that she was under any pressure from Max or E 
to pay. If Nationwide had reviewed the paperwork (which I dont think it would have had cause to as 
there was no indication that Ms L was falling for a scam), I dont think it could have 
reasonably suspected something wasnt quite right. The barrister and FCA authorised 
person were both genuine and Im of the view the paperwork wouldve reassured Nationwide 
Ms L was not at risk of financial harm rather than the opposite. But if Nationwide had asked 
Ms L to carry out further independent checks, I dont think she would have carried out further 
checks in the way she describes and I think she would have directed questions back to Max. 
From Ms Ls submissions, she said that she didnt read or take in the barrister letter and she 
struggles to use a computer due to her dyslexia. So, I dont think she would have taken 
further steps to verify the documents by carrying out further extensive research as she 
trusted Max had done this. I can see why Ms L strongly believes she would have taken these 
further steps with the benefit of hindsight but given how sophisticated the scam was as well 
as the trust she had in Max, Im not persuaded these are the actions shed have taken at the 
time. Im further persuaded of this by Ms Ls interactions with R. Ms L asked R what 
guarantees they could offer her in respect of the E bond, they replied and directed her back 
to E. Its unclear if Ms L got back in touch with E or Max but she raised no further concern 
until she couldnt withdraw her investment, so Im not persuaded she would have carried out 
any further extensive independent checks if prompted by Nationwide without first speaking to 
Max. I think Max would have alleviated any of her concerns. The reasons scams like this are 
so successful is because of the trust built between the fraudster and their victim.
I dont think Nationwide could reasonably have known that Es first Security Trustee had 
decided not to represent them. There was no readily available information to the public that 
would have suggested this. E was not credibly identified as a scam (publicly) until they were 
wound up in January 2022, this is a number of years after Ms L made her payment.
I think that the use of an escrow service would have given reassurance to Nationwide that E 
was legitimate. To complete Ms Ls quote of the FCAs description of escrow services, it said 
in PERG 15: Guidance on the scope of the Payment Services Regulations 2017:
Escrow services generally involve a payment service consisting of the transfer of 
funds from a payer to a payee, with the platform holding the funds pending the 
payees fulfilment of certain conditions or confirmation by the payer.
So, it isnt just the movement of money from one party to another. Certain conditions need to 
be met before the funds can be released and Nationwide ought reasonably to have been 
aware of this. I think the involvement of an escrow service gave E further credibility. 
I dont think Nationwide would have been concerned that Ms Ls matured bond proceeds 
were attempted to be paid into the Smart Account before the payment to R. This is because 
Ms L already explained to it that shed provided the account details in error and the payment 
was intended for her current account, not the Smart Account and she arranged a transfer of 
the proceeds to the appropriate account. And whilst Nationwide would have been aware that 
Ms L was the account holder of the Smart Account for the benefit of her daughter, it was 
ultimately Ms Ls discretion what she did with the funds in that account. 
This was a sophisticated and multi-layered scam. Nationwide was obliged in the 
circumstances to explore whether Ms L was at risk of financial harm but for the reasons Ive 
explained in this decision and my provisional decision, I dont think that following some 
probing questions from Nationwide it wouldve been concerned. And even if the conversation 
had prompted any further questions in Ms Ls mind, for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision I still think shed have been comfortable proceeding with the payment.   Overall, whilst I agree that Nationwide didnt do what it ought to have done by intervening in 
Ms Ls payment to R, I dont find that it was the primary cause of Ms Ls loss. In other words, 
I dont think it could have prevented Ms L from making the payment to R, nor do I think there 
was any indication that Ms L had fallen victim to a fraud or scam at the material time, such 
that I would make an award against Nationwide. I know this will be an extremely difficult 
decision for Ms L to receive. I would urge her to get the help and support she needs and I 
know her representative is already providing support to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman