DRN-3552061
The complaint
Mr W complains that One Sure Insurance Limited mishandled his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to One Sure, I refer to the above-named company and I include employees 
and others insofar as I hold it responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
One Sure acted as an intermediary between Mr W and an insurance company. Through One 
Sure, Mr W took out a motor insurance policy for the year from mid-August 2021.
Mr W cancelled the policy in November 2021. One Sure said that it would refund £50.00 to 
Mr W.
Mr W complained to One Sure that it hadnt refunded that amount. Mr W brought his 
complaint to us in February 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
One Sure had refunded Mr W the £50.00 shortly after the policy was cancelled, so it  hadnt 
made an error.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that: 
One Sure shouldn't have paid the money back into the account they had on file for 
him. 
One Sure should have sent him a cheque for the money 
He has started a complaint against the bank. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see that in August 2021, Mr W took out third party, fire and theft cover at a cost of about 
£135.00. From what he and One Sure have each said, he gave One Sure his payment card 
details. 
One Sures terms of business provided that it could use his card details to collect any 
outstanding balance. So I dont find it unfair or unreasonable that One Sure should use those 
card details to pay any refund. 
From what Mr W has said, he changed banks in about December 2021.
From a screenshot, I accept that One Sure refunded the £50.00 to Mr Ws card on 31
December 2021. I dont consider that One Sure acted unfairly. I dont consider that One Sure  
was obliged to send a cheque to Mr W.
Im satisfied that One Sure had done all that it had to do. I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct One Sure to pay Mr W any further refund or any compensation or to do any more in 
response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct One Sure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman