DRN-4381397
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) have failed to refund money that she lost as 
part of an investment scam. 
What happened
Mrs S was contacted by someone who said they worked for a Crypto trading company that I 
will call B. From what I can see, Mrs S made debit card payments totalling over £19,000 to 
two crypto exchanges. The funds were then sent on to B. The payments were as follows;
Transaction Number Date Amount Merchant
1 1/09/2022 £215.65 Coindeck
2 19/09/2022 £450 Binance
3 22/09/2022 £3,700 Binance
4 27/09/2022 £5,700 Binance
5 30/09/2022 £1,000 Binance
6 03/10/2022 £2,620 Binance
7 10/10/2022 £1,500 Binance
8 12/10/2022 £2,200 Binance
9 16/12/2022 £1,350 Binance
10 19/12/2022 £830 Binance
Mrs S wanted to withdraw the profits she could see that she had made with B, but she was 
told that she was unable to do so without paying a withdrawal fee. Mrs S made two more 
payments (9 and 10 in the table above) but was still unable to withdraw any money from B. 
At this point Mrs S realised she had been scammed.
Mrs S raised a complaint with Revolut as she believed that Revolut should have stopped her 
from making the payments in question.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they decided that the transactions were 
not sufficiently out of character to warrant an intervention by Revolut and that there was no 
other means of Revolut recovering the funds.
Mrs S did not agree with this and therefore her complaint was passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I am satisfied albeit on balance that Mrs S authorised the payment she made from her 
Revolut account (where her funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammers). 
Mrs S has said in her submissions that B took over her tablet via remote access software 
and used this to make the payments in question though she has not claimed that the 
payments were done without her consent. Revolut says that their app cant be accessed 
when remote software is present. So overall and on balance I think that Mrs S did authorise 
the payments in question under the instructions of the scammer. 
The transaction was requested by her using her legitimate security credentials provided by 
Revolut, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Mrs S from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. However, having taken Mrs Ss account activity, I do not 
think the payments she is disputing should have been regarded as particularly unusual.
I say this because the account was recently opened so Revolut would not know what 
Mrs Ss usual payments looked like. So, it did not have anything to compare the payments 
too to decide whether they were unusual or out of character. The payments were spread out 
rather than done in one or two days and the largest payment was preceded by smaller 
payments over a three-week period. So overall I am not satisfied that they ought to have 
made Revolut question the payments Mrs S made.
So, having considered the payments Mrs S made, Im not persuaded there was anything that 
ought reasonably to have triggered Revoluts fraud monitoring systems or that would have 
indicated she was in the process of being scammed. I therefore do not consider there to 
have been any obligation on Revolut to have intervened any further
Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough to attempt to recover the money Mrs S 
lost. As the payments were made by debit card, the only recourse for potential recovery of 
the payments would be via the chargeback scheme. 
Revolut did not raise a chargeback but I dont think that there was any reasonable chance of 
a chargeback being successful as the crypto exchanges ultimately provided Mrs S with the 
service she paid for which was the purchase of crypto.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, and Im sorry to hear she has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Revolut can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman