DRN-2098618
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that he didnt receive the cashback he was expecting with his Nationwide 
Building Society mortgage. Whilst he received the normal £500 first time buyer cashback, he 
didnt receive the £1,000 Save-to-Buy (STB) cashback he was also expecting.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
The extra £1,000 cashback was only available with a STB mortgage. And STB mortgages 
could only be applied for over the phone or in branch; they couldnt be applied for online.
As Mr A applied online he got a normal fixed rate mortgage, not a special STB fixed rate 
mortgage therefore he wasnt eligible for the extra STB cashback.
Mr A called the Nationwide call centre on 19 August 2019 (which was after hed completed a 
decision in principle and before he made his application) and in that call he was told (with 
they meaning STB mortgages):
They are available through Nationwide now, branch and direct. Its not possible to apply 
online for that, or through an intermediary.
Mr A said he had a call with a branch staff member in which they told him he could apply 
online for a STB mortgage. Unfortunately, despite searches by Nationwide theres no record 
of that call. It has also said there is no footprint of a branch staff member having accessed 
Mr As account at the time in question, which they would have done if they were answering 
anything other than a generic query. 
I must also keep in mind that Mr A originally said the mis-information was given to him in 
mid-to-late August by the call centre (not a branch), I quote:
I verified that the product I was applying online would qualify for the £1,000 cashback if 
the the [sic] application was made online. This was confirmed to me verbally with one of 
the staff members that I will qualify for the £1,000 save to buy cashback online. I 
clarified that I have over £5,000 in saving (help to buy) and I am applying for the 
above product online. There was a number of calls made to the Nationwide call centre 
from July to October. The numbers that I have a record for are as follows;
 
0800 281 801, 11.21 on 22/08/2019 - 
0800302011. 16.08 on 19/08/2019 
0800281801, 16.41 on 19/08/2019 
13.47 on 27/09/2019 
On one of the calls there was a discussion about the save to buy cashback and 
application. This provided me the reassurance that I would get the cashback from the 
bank before a full application was to be made. 
The only call that can be traced in which the STB cashback was discussed (which 
incidentally was mid-to-late August and with the call centre so ties in with Mr As initial 
recollections of events) was the one mentioned above. And in that he was correctly told he 
couldnt apply online for a STB mortgage.
The STB mortgage products could be viewed online and Mr A has said when he clicked on 
the find out how to apply button on the STB product he was interested in it took him straight 
to an application.
Nationwide has said that isnt how its website worked. It says when that button was clicked 
on it would have taken Mr A to another page entitled First time buyers  Apply for a 
Nationwide mortgage. That page explains the three channels available generally are online, 
phone or in branch. Beneath that is an explanatory box that says:
Please note, it's not possible to apply online for a mortgage if:
you're applying to borrow more than 90% of the value of the property
youre applying for a mortgage with the Help to Buy, shared ownership, Right to Buy 
or Forces Help to Buy affordable housing schemes
you're applying for a Save to Buy or Help to Buy mortgage
your mortgage term will take you into, or beyond normal retirement age.
When he complained Mr A provided various links he felt supported his complaint. But as 
Nationwide explained, those links said:
When you're ready to apply for a Save to Buy mortgage with us, you'll have the choice of 
applying in branch or over the phone. To make your application appointment, call us on 
0800 30 20 10 Monday to Friday 8am-8pm, or Saturday 9am-5pm. It's not currently 
possible to apply online or through an intermediary for a Save to Buy mortgage.
And:
Save to Buy mortgages are not available for new build properties. A Save to Buy 
mortgage can be applied for in branch or over the phone.
As Mr A wanted a STB mortgage then he couldnt apply online; that was explained to him in 
the call Ive set out above and on Nationwides website.
The mortgage offer stated A cashback of £500.00 is payable within one month of 
completion and as Mr A knew, that was the cashback all first time buyers would receive. I 
would have expected Mr A to have queried the fact the mortgage offer didnt also mention 
the £1,000 STB cashback, rather than proceeding to completion and then querying it after 
the event. Had Mr A queried it with Nationwide when he read his mortgage offer then 
Nationwide would have been in a position to explain what Mr A had done wrong  that is, 
hed applied online so the application was for a non-STB mortgage  and it would have had 
a chance to help Mr A put that right.Having considered everything, Im satisfied Nationwide did nothing wrong here. It told Mr A 
he couldnt apply online for a STB mortgage, therefore there are no grounds for me to order 
it to pay him the £1,000 cashback he could have got with a STB mortgage or the five hours 
at £250 an hour that Mr A wanted to charge Nationwide for his time in complaining.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman