DRN-3954689
The complaint
Mr D and Mr E complain because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim under their 
travel insurance policy when Mr D experienced a medical emergency abroad. 
All references to UKI include the agents appointed to handle claims on its behalf, where 
relevant. 
What happened
Mr E holds a travel insurance policy, provided by UKI, as a benefit of his packaged bank 
account. Mr D is also insured under the policy. 
Unfortunately, while on holiday abroad, Mr D suffered a stroke and was admitted to hospital. 
Mr E notified UKI about the claim, and Mr E subsequently arranged for Mr D to be 
transferred to a different hospital. After requesting and considering a medical certificate 
completed by Mr Ds GP practice, UKI said the claim wasnt covered because Mr D hadnt 
told it that he was taking repeat prescription medication for two cerebrovascular accidents 
(CVAs) in 2013 and 2020. 
Mr E disputed some of what the GP had said and UKI asked Mr Ds GP practice for further 
information about Mr Ds previous medical history. UKI subsequently declined the claim 
again because it said the additional information received from Mr Ds GP practice 
demonstrated that Mr D had a CVA in 2020, that Mr D was made aware of this and that hed 
been on medication since that time which it hadnt been told about. Mr E eventually arranged 
for himself and Mr D to return to the UK by sea and overland. 
Mr E complained to UKI about various issues including the decision to decline Mr Ds claim, 
the length of time taken by UKI to decide whether there was cover in place, the overall lack 
of assistance provided by UKI and the lack of contact, lack of clarity and empathy from UKIs 
staff. UKI said its decision to decline Mr Ds claim was correct, but it paid £300 
compensation in recognition of some of the other issues which Mr D and Mr E had 
experienced. UKI later sent a second final response letter addressing incorrect information 
which Mr E had been given and information hed requested but hadnt received. UKI paid a 
further £250 compensation in recognition of these issues. 
Unhappy, Mr D and Mr E brought their complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what had happened and said she didnt think UKI had acted unfairly by declining 
Mr Ds claim. She said she thought UKIs payment of a total of £550 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for the other issues which Mr D and Mr E had experienced. 
Mr D and Mr E didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been 
referred to me as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims promptly and fairly, shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim and must provide 
appropriate information to a policyholder about the progress of a claim. Ive taken these rules 
into account when making my final decision about Mr D and Mr Es complaint. 
UKIs decision to decline Mr Ds claim
Mr D and Mr Es policy, at page 11, says:
Health Issues
The Medical Declaration
This policy only covers unforeseen emergency medical treatment that occurs while 
you are on a trip and for conditions that you were unaware of, or that we have 
accepted. For this reason, it is very important that you read the Medical Declaration 
on page 13 and provide full details to us straight away. This applies to all insured 
persons.
The terms and conditions of the policy, on page 13 under the heading Medical Declaration, 
say:
Please read this section carefully. Failure to provide correct information or 
inform us of any changes could adversely affect your policy 
When you become an insured person or when you book your trip (whichever is 
later):
You must tell us about each pre-existing medical condition for any insured 
person. This is a medical condition for which you:
have received advice, treatment or a prescription for medication (whether taking it 
or not) from a doctor during the last 12 months:
Pre-existing medical condition is defined as:
any medical condition for which, at the date you became an insured person or the 
date when you booked your trip, whichever is the later, you:
had received advice, medication or treatment from a doctor during the last 12 
months:
Section D of the policy, which sets out the cover available for emergency medical and 
related costs says:
What is not covered
We will not cover:

any claim that is the result of a pre-existing medical condition. This exclusion 
will not apply if that pre-existing medical condition had already been declared to us and accepted by us in writing;
A similar exclusion can be found under several other sections of the policy. 
The requirement to disclose pre-existing medical conditions to a travel insurer and undergo a 
medical screening prior to travel in order for pre-existing medical conditions to be covered is 
by no means unusual. Im satisfied that Mr D and Mr Es policy documentation clearly 
outlines that pre-existing medical conditions arent covered unless UKI is made aware of and 
agrees to cover them. Ive also seen emails which were sent to Mr E outlining the 
requirement to declare medical conditions for which medication had been prescribed within 
12 months prior to booking a trip. So, Im satisfied the Medical Declaration process was 
explained and brought to Mr D and Mr Es attention by UKI. 
Mr E has provided lengthy and detailed submissions about Mr Ds previous medical history, 
when and why different medications were prescribed to Mr D, why the causes of Mr Ds 
strokes were different, what treatment Mr D should have been given in 2020 and Mr Ds 
eventual diagnosis with a patent foramen ovale in December 2021. Mr E has also provided 
documentation in support of his various submissions about Mr Ds medical status as well as 
copies of email correspondence with his bank. Ive read and considered everything which Mr 
E has told us and sent to us but I wont be addressing every point raised  nor am I obliged 
to. Instead, reflecting our services role as an informal alternative to the courts, Ill only be 
commenting on what I think are the key issues. 
It's not for me to reach my own medical conclusions about Mr Ds pre-existing medical 
conditions and/or their causes, or to substitute expert medical opinion with my own. Instead, 
Ive considered whether I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably based on the available 
medical evidence in this case. 
Mr E has provided evidence that the flights which he and Mr D travelled on were booked on 
28 September 2021. This means Mr D, or Mr E on his behalf, needed to tell UKI about any 
advice, treatment, or medication for pre-existing medical conditions which Mr D received 
from a doctor from September 2020. An insurer is generally entitled to decide the level of 
risk which it is prepared to accept cover for in line with its own commercial underwriting 
criteria, and the fact that Mr D may have been taking certain medications (or variations of 
them) for a number of years doesnt remove the obligation on him to tell UKI the information 
it was asking about his medical history if he wanted cover for these issues. The policy 
doesnt say that only changes in prescription medication need to be declared. 
Mr Ds medical records show that he was being prescribed four different types of medication 
at the time this trip was booked, and the medical certificate completed by Mr Ds GP practice 
says that two of these medications were related to the stroke which Mr D experienced while 
abroad. 
I appreciate that Mr D, or Mr E on his behalf, wasnt asked to tell UKI about anything that 
happened before September 2020, but I think some of the events which took place before 
this date are relevant to Mr D and/or Mr Es knowledge of Mr Ds medical status. Mr D, or Mr 
E on his behalf, needed to tell UKI about the pre-existing medical conditions which the 
medications he was prescribed in the 12 months prior to 28 September 2021 were for in 
order for these to be covered. Mr Ds medical notes show that he was referred to a stroke 
clinic following a telephone consultation in April 2020. Mr Ds GP practice subsequently 
confirmed to UKI that Mr D had an MRI in April 2020 which confirmed a left medulla 
infarction (a form of stroke), and that this was communicated in a letter copied to Mr D in 
June 2020. The GP practice also confirmed to UKI that one of the medications referred to as 
being related to the stroke which Mr D suffered abroad was started in April 2020, and the 
dosage of the second medication was increased around the same time. So, based on Mr Ds medical history from April 2020, I think its likely he would or ought reasonably to have 
known that the medication he was being prescribed at the time this trip was booked was 
related to a stroke, or a suspected stroke, which he suffered in 2020 regardless of the type 
of stroke this may have been, or the type of stroke which Mr D and Mr E thought it was. 
Pre-existing medical conditions are only covered under this policy if they are accepted in 
writing by UKI, following contact with the medical screening line telephone number set out in 
the policy documentation. Ive seen no evidence that either Mr D or Mr E made declarations 
to UKI about any pre-existing medical conditions and UKI says it can find no record of any 
such declarations being made. Mr D was automatically insured under the terms and 
conditions of this policy as Mr Es partner living at the same address and any conversations 
which Mr E may have had with his banks relationship manager dont demonstrate that UKI 
was told about Mr Ds pre-existing medical history  UKIs medical screening line would 
need to have been contacted for cover to be confirmed. And, even if I were to accept that Mr 
E did make a declaration to UKI about Mr Ds hypertension in the early months of 2020, this 
wouldnt necessarily have removed the requirement for Mr D to make a new declaration 
about the medication he was prescribed in the twelve months leading up to the booking of 
this trip in September 2021 if he wanted cover for his pre-existing medical conditions at that 
point. 
Im therefore satisfied that Mr D was being prescribed medications which were related to a 
stroke which he didnt tell UKI about under the Medical Declaration process set out in his 
policy. This means strokes, regardless of the cause, are not covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. So, based on the information Ive seen, I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for UKI to rely on the policy exclusion relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions to decline the claim for the stroke which Mr D had abroad. 
In line with my remit, Ive also thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable for UKI 
to accept Mr Ds claim outside of a strict application of the policy terms and conditions. 
Based on the circumstances of this case, I dont think it would. UKI wasnt told about Mr Ds 
pre-existing medical condition in line with the Medical Declaration set out in the policy. So, 
the risk which UKI was covering didnt include the risk of Mr D suffering a stroke while 
abroad and the costs associated with this. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to now 
require UKI to retrospectively provide cover for a risk which it didnt agree to accept, even 
taking into account any additional premium which UKI may have charged to provide cover 
for pre-existing medical conditions if it had been told about them before the trip. In any event, 
I dont think the retrospective screening which UKI carried out represents persuasive 
evidence of what, if any, cover for pre-existing medical conditions which UKI would have 
agreed to provide. The retrospective screening which was carried out isnt, in my opinion, 
based on an accurate declaration relating to Mr Ds health at the time the trip was booked as 
documented in the available medical evidence, without the benefit of hindsight. 
I havent made any findings about the CVA which Mr Ds GP practice said he suffered in 
2013, whether Mr D experienced a TIA or a CVA in 2020 or about whether Mr D was 
awaiting any diagnostic investigations when the flights were booked, as Im satisfied these 
points dont change my decision that UKI didnt act unfairly by declining Mr Ds claim. 
I understand, and Im sorry to hear, that Mr D had difficulties communicating following the 
stroke which happened abroad. But this also doesnt have any impact on the outcome of my 
decision. Whats relevant in this case is whether Mr D, or Mr E on his behalf, told UKI about 
any pre-existing medical conditions which Mr D wanted cover for before he travelled, in line 
with the terms of the Medical Declaration set out in the applicable policy documentation  
and not anything that happened after Mr D was sadly taken ill abroad.  
Mr Es other complaint pointsAs Ive already explained, I wont be addressing every complaint point which Mr E has 
raised. But Ive summarised my findings in relation to what I think are the remaining key 
arguments:
any issues with the diagnosis and treatment provided to Mr D are not for our 
service to consider and would be for Mr D and Mr E to pursue directly with either 
the NHS or the treating hospitals abroad.
the process which UKI followed in requesting information from Mr Ds GP practice 
and basing its decision to accept or refuse cover on this information is what Id 
expect it to have done in the circumstances. What Mr E describes as the heavy 
onus which UKI put on Mr Ds GP practice is how travel insurers generally 
confirm cover for a medical claim  regardless of whether or not there is an 
ongoing pandemic.
it may have been more helpful if the timing of UKIs request for information from 
Mr Ds GP hadnt been made so close to the weekend, but I dont think it was 
unfair or unreasonable for UKI to rely on the information it was given when 
making its initial decision about the claim coverage. I dont agree with Mr Es 
submissions that UKI should have sought to interpret the medical information it 
was given about Mr Ds previous medical history in its own way, to substitute the 
medical opinion given with its own assumptions or to carry out its own 
investigations into Mr Ds prescription history. Id have found it inappropriate if 
UKI had done any of these things  this isnt UKIs role as a travel insurer. Id 
generally expect a travel insurer to rely on the information provided by a qualified 
expert who is aware of an insured persons medical history rather than 
questioning the information provided without any good reason to do so. I dont 
think UKI needed to give Mr E an opportunity to comment on the medical 
information received before making the initial decision to decline Mr Ds claim  
this would only have delayed matters further. When Mr E disputed the initial claim 
decline, UKI requested further clarification from Mr Ds GP practice, and I think 
this was fair and appropriate in the circumstances.
the consent forms completed in this case authorised UKI to obtain Mr Ds medical 
records, but this doesnt mean UKI is obliged to request an insured persons full 
medical records in every case. There are situations when this may be 
unnecessary, unreasonable and/or disproportionate. Based on the circumstances 
of this case, Im satisfied that UKI was reasonably entitled to rely on the medical 
information it had to make a decision, and Im satisfied that neither its initial nor 
its subsequent decision to decline Mr Ds claim were premature.
its not in dispute that UKI could have acted sooner to obtain medical information 
when it was first notified about Mr Ds claim and, if it had done so, it could have 
decided whether Mr Ds claim was covered more quickly. UKI has also 
acknowledged that  amongst other things - it provided Mr E with incorrect 
information at times, that it could have been clearer in providing information at 
other times, should have looked into Mr Es concerns about the ward which Mr D 
was initially admitted to and didnt call Mr E back on certain occasions. UKI has 
paid a total of £550 compensation in recognition of these issues. Based on the 
circumstances of this case, including the timeline involved, Im satisfied that this 
payment fairly compensations Mr D and Mr E for the impact of what I think were 
UKIs mistakes on them. 
In conclusion, I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr D and Mr E. Its clear 
to me that they have been through a very difficult time, and I can understand how strongly they feel about what has happened. I can also appreciate the amount of work Mr E has put 
into researching and providing evidence in support of this complaint. But, when making an 
independent and impartial decision, I need to reach an outcome thats fair and reasonable to 
both parties. In this case, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to direct UKI to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr D and Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman