DRN-3757303
The complaint
Mr H complained that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) failed to reply to letters about 
information in contract notes it issued following trades it carried out for him. Mr H also 
complained about comments HSDL made about him in an internal email dated 12 July 2021. 
What happened
contract notes
On 21 June 2021, Mr H wrote to HSDL to query why it had informed him a trade executed on 
26 May 2021 was effected outside market hours when best execution could not be 
guaranteed. 
He wanted to know why this had happened and what impact it could have.
HSDL sent its final response letter on 20 September 2021 upholding Mr Hs complaint. It 
said an IT issue following a recent system update meant Mr H was given incorrect 
information about how a trade was effected. It said it was aware of the problem and working 
to resolve it. HSDL offered to pay Mr H £25 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
The same thing had happened again just a few days before HSDL sent its final response 
letter on 20 September 2021 resulting in Mr H receiving a contract note with the same 
incorrect wording in relation to a trade in September 2021.
Mr H wrote to HSDL on 27 September 2021 asking for more information about that trade and 
the consequences for him.
 
HSDL responded on 5 October 2021 informing Mr H that his ongoing complaint was being 
investigated and providing full details of the trade it had completed on 14 September 2021.
Our investigator felt that HSDLs letter of 20 September 2021 had been sufficient to explain 
things and that its compensation offer was fair. 
comments made about Mr H in an internal HSDL email 
After making a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to HSDL, Mr H obtained an 
internal email dated 12 July 2021. This had been written by a person who had listened 
to a call recording who said that Mr H had: made inappropriate and unnecessary 
comments about (the call handlers) accent and understanding of English.
Mr H said HSDL had made inaccurate, misleading and potentially malicious and defamatory 
comments.
Our investigator didnt uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint. She felt that the comments were 
sent in an internal email expressing an individuals opinion after listening to the call recording 
and she didnt think they were rude or inappropriate. She said HSDL had wanted to make 
Mr H aware that it considered the comments inappropriate and that any further such 
comments would result in the termination of his customer agreement  and it set this out in 
an email it sent him on 12 July 2021. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for his unresolved complaint against 
HSDL to be referred to an ombudsman  so it comes to me to decide. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
contract notes
Mr H first contacted HSDL about the wording in its contract note for a May 2021 trade 
in June 2021. HSDL didnt issue its final response letter dealing with Mr Hs complaint 
about this until 20 September 2021, some three months or so later.  
But I think it's fair to say that when Mr H initially wrote to HSDL about this in June 2021 
he was looking for information rather than formally complaining at that stage. And over 
the course of summer 2021, Mr H was sending a lot of letters and raising numerous 
complaint issues with HSDL. It was clear he was dissatisfied with many aspects of 
HSDLs service. 
HSDL for its part was attempting to manage Mr Hs queries and complaints. This 
meant that sometimes letters crossed in the post and I can see why it mightnt always 
have been clear to HSDL which issues were outstanding and ongoing. 
I havent seen enough to make me think that HSDL delayed unreasonably in sending 
its final response letter on this complaint. And I think the explanation HSDL set out in 
its final response letter explained reasonably clearly that an IT error had led to 
misinformation in the contract note it sent relating to the May 2021 trade. 
It was unlucky timing that the same error had recently happened again, just before 
HSDL sent its final response letter. And Im aware this prompted Mr H to write further 
to HSDL on 27 September 2021  and he doesnt feel that letter was properly 
responded to. But I think HSDLs letter of 20 September 2021 adequately explained 
that the incorrect wording error was ongoing and under investigation and HSDL was 
reasonably entitled to the view that this shouldve been enough to address any 
concerns Mr H mightve had. 
I think it was reasonable for HSDL to take the view that it wasnt necessary to log a 
new complaint about the contract note sent in relation to the September 2021 sale as 
Mr H had by then had an explanation for what happened and he had been made aware 
the problem was being investigated. 
If there was any doubt, HSDLs letter of 5 October 2021, which mainly provided the 
details Mr H had asked for about the September 2021 trade, also made clear that the 
complaint issue was ongoing. 
So I dont think Mr H had any good reason to continue to be concerned about how his trades 
in May and September 2021 had been effected after HSDL had made it clear in its final 
response letter sent on 20 September 2021 that his order in May 2021 was executed 
correctly. Mr H knew then that there had been no impact on the trade due to the wording 
error in the contract note. 
When considering what would be fair and reasonable redress in this situation, I need to 
decide what the impact on Mr H has been as a result of HSDL making this error. I can completely understand that getting the contract note for the sale in May 2021 with 
incorrect information about best execution was potentially alarming for Mr H  up to the 
point HSDL provided reassurance that its error hadnt caused him any financial loss in its 
final response letter sent 20 September 2021. In my view, the £25 compensation offered by 
HSDL is fair and reasonable. 
comments made about Mr H in an internal HSDL email 
Mr H made a separate complaint to HSDL about the way the call handler managed the 
call which prompted the 12 July 2021 internal email and the email the same day to him. 
This was addressed by HSDL in a final response letter dated 14 July 2021  HSDL 
didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
So I think its clear that Mr H has a different recollection of events. But what Mr H says isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. I must look at all the available 
information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance of probabilities. This means 
making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. And I must be 
impartial. Theres more information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman 
Service approach.
I think it's fair to say that the description in the internal email of Mr Hs comments being 
inappropriate and unnecessary fairly reflects what HSDL set out in an email it sent to 
Mr H the same day warning him that further inappropriate conduct would lead to his 
relationship with HSDL being terminated. 
The details included suggest that Mr H had commented adversely on the call handlers 
knowledge of the English language, his native origin, the quality of his accent and his 
competence. Mr H hasnt sent me anything to suggest this doesnt accurately represent what 
he said to the call handler. 
Mr H mentioned in a letter to HSDL dated 3 August 2021 that hed kept an electronic 
recording of the call and if he would like to supply this to me I will listen to this before I make 
a final decision.
Otherwise, as things stand, I find that the balance of the evidence Ive seen supports a 
finding that HSDLs internal email wasnt unfair or unreasonable in its tone or content given 
the comments Mr H is reported as having made to the call handler. 
So Im not upholding this part of Mr Hs complaint.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Halifax Share Dealing Limited should 
pay Mr H £25, as it offered to do, to fairly compensate Mr H for the impact on him of the 
error that resulted in incorrect information being put in a contract note in May 2021. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman