DRN-3948531
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company (AXA) declined a claim 
he made, on his commercial motor insurance policy, for fire damage to his vehicle.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr As car has suffered damage as a result of an 
electrical failure.
AXA declined Mr As claim based on an exclusion for damage caused by electrical failures or 
breakdowns.
Mr A accepts that AXA can fairly decline his claim for the failed electrical component(s). But 
he says the electrical failure caused a fire. So, he feels AXA should cover the cost of any 
damage caused by the fire.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said Mr As 
policy provided cover for damage caused by fire and so AXA should cover the fire damage. 
But she said it was fair for AXA to exclude repairs to the electrical fault itself.
AXA didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement had been reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision to set out my thoughts and to give everyone the chance to reply. Heres what I said:
 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach a different outcome to that reached by our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr As policy provides cover for damage caused by fire. But it also contains the 
following exclusion:
The Company will not provide indemnity in respect of

c) mechanical or electrical breakdowns failures or breakages
If I were persuaded that there had been a fire in this case, which had caused 
damage, then I would agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair for AXA to 
decline the fire damage based on the above exclusion. But, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, Im not persuaded there has been a fire.
I say this because the photos Ive seen, of the engine, dont appear to show clear 
signs that there has been a fire. There are no obvious signs of any of the plastic 
components in other parts of the engine having burnt or melted, and no obvious 
signs of charring to other parts of the engine. The damage appears isolated to the 
wires of the electrical component which malfunctioned, which have melted. 
AXAs initial engineers report specified the damage as, Burnt cables under steering 
column, jeep would not start.
And the later engineers report explained the damage as Heat distortion and went 
on to explain the cause of this damage as, The source is the heater resister which 
has failed and in turn the main wiring harness has overheated.
In addition, the contemporaneous evidence from Mr A, his claim form, mentions 
smoke but not flames or fire. Mr A explains that a fire extinguisher was used to stop 
the smoke. Had there been flames, I think its likely Mr A would have stated this at 
the time, rather than mentioning only smoke. 
Based on the above, Im persuaded that there has been an electrical failure which 
has caused overheating and the melting of some cables. But nothing in the available 
evidence persuades me, on balance, that there was a fire. Afterall, wires can melt as 
a result of heat without catching fire. And melting wires would likely result in the 
heavy smoke reported by Mr A.
I appreciate that my provisional conclusions will likely come as a disappointment to 
Mr A. But for the reasons explained above, Im not persuaded that the reported 
damage has been caused by a fire  which is the insured event which would need to 
be shown in order for me to uphold Mr As complaint. Instead, I think the damage has 
been caused by an electrical failure  which is excluded under the terms of the 
policy. So, in these circumstances, Im currently minded to decide that AXAs 
decision to decline the claim is fair.
AXA responded and confirmed it accepted my provisional conclusions.
Mr A responded to say he didnt agree that my provisional decision was fair. To summarise, 
he said:
Its unfair for our service to provide a reason to refuse the claim which AXA had not 
put forward or relied on.
The comments recorded on his claim form were recorded by a member of AXA staff, 
and so should not be considered as a verbatim record of Mr As statement.
The amount of smoke and the fact a fire extinguisher had to be used should be 
sufficient to demonstrate that, on the balance of probabilities, a fire most likely 
ignited.
To reject the claim on the basis that no fire occurred, our service has to show that it 
100% did not happen.
It is not accepted that the melted wire is a part of the electrical component which 
failed.If the claim should fail under the fire peril, it should succeed under the accidental 
damage section instead.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the additional comments and evidence provided in response to 
my provisional decision. But having done so, my conclusions remain unchanged. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, as explained in my provisional decision, in order for me to uphold a claim, for fire 
damage, I need to be persuaded that there has been a fire and that the fire caused the 
damage which is being claimed for. Whether or not AXA specifically made this argument 
doesnt change that fact. So, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for me to consider 
whether or not a fire took place or caused the damage as thats the peril Mr A is claiming 
under.
Secondly, Mr A is correct to say that the applicable test here is the balance of probabilities. 
However, I dont agree that this means he needs to demonstrate that, in his words, the fire 
was, at least 50% likely to be there. What this means is that Mr A needs to show the fire 
was more likely to have been there and, crucially, to have caused the damaged claimed for. 
50% is not more likely than not. And having considered everything, Im not persuaded more 
likely than not has been demonstrated.
I also dont agree with Mr A that I would need to show with 100% certainty that no fire 
occurred in order to not uphold this complaint. Its not my role to prove or disprove any 
eventuality. Rather its my role to impartially assess the evidence in each case, and to base 
my conclusions on that evidence. And, as already explained, the test I will use to reach my 
conclusions is the balance of probabilities, which is what Ive applied here.
I note the comments Mr A has made about his claim form. However, in his response he has 
still not stated that he observed any flames. Rather he has continued to refer to the smoke 
throughout his communications with AXA and our service. And, as I mentioned in my 
provisional decision, neither of the inspection reports, or any of the photos Ive seen seem to 
show any clear signs of damage caused by a fire. 
The only damage captured within the initial engineers report was heat damaged wires. And 
the remaining damage to the car appears to have been caused by the smoke. There doesnt 
appear to be any scorch marks, burn marks or melted plastic elements  aside from the wire 
in question. So, taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that a fire more likely than 
not ignited or caused the reported damage. 
Instead, as explained in my provisional decision, Im persuaded that its more likely than not 
that the smoke was caused by the wires melting as a result of the electrical failure identified 
by AXA. 
Ive thought about Mr As opinion that the wire was not part of the relay which failed. But Im 
more persuaded by AXAs explanation that it was:In a car heating system, there is a heater motor. The heater motor sits behind the 
dashboard, and most will contain a basic electrical circuit. The circuit includes a 
resistor that allows the occupant to control the speed of the heater fan. It is quite 
common for resistors to fail, allowing the fan to only run at one speed. The resistor is 
part of the electrical system the same way the main wiring harness is.
In my opinion, the expert evidence suggests the cause of damage was the failure of the heat 
resistor causing the wiring harness to overheat. Mr As response to my provisional decision 
has not persuaded me otherwise. So, as Im not persuaded that there was a fire, it follows 
that I dont think the damage should be covered under the fire peril.
In addition to his disagreement over whether there was a fire, Mr A has suggested that his 
claim should succeed under accidental damage, should it fail under fire.
Ive thought carefully about Mr As suggestion here. But the accidental damage cover 
provided by Mr As policy is part of the same overall section of the policy as the fire damage 
cover  section 1 loss or damage to the vehicle. This is important because the exclusion 
relied on by AXA to refuse Mr As claim  damage as a result of an electrical failure  is 
applicable to the whole of section 1. 
So, as Im persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that the damage claimed for has been 
caused by an electrical failure, it follows that AXAs decision to decline the claim based on 
that exclusion extends to the accidental damage cover and remains fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr As 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman