DRN-3141464
The complaint
Miss J complains Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) irresponsibly provided her with a credit 
card facility. 
What happened
Miss J says she took out a credit card account with Vanquis in June 2017 with a credit limit 
of £250, although her credit history was poor, and she had missed payments on other debts 
previously. Miss J says Vanquis subsequently increased her credit card limit on two 
occasion in January 2018 and December 2018 to a total facility of £2,000. Miss J says she 
was experiencing financial difficulties which should have been clear to Vanquis, especially 
given she was only making minimum payments on her credit card account with them and her 
credit score was low. Miss J wants Vanquis to refund all interest and charges and clear her 
credit file.
Vanquis says they carried out reasonable checks before providing the credit card account to 
Miss J and when increasing the limits available to her subsequently. Vanquis say although 
there had been some history of missed payments against Miss J, these were over 12 
months old and there wasnt anything to suggest she was experiencing financial difficulties, 
when she completed the assessment to increase her borrowing. 
Miss J wasnt happy with Vanquiss response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Vanquis had carried out reasonable checks before providing the initial credit 
card account facility and any subsequent increases to the account limits. The investigator 
says there was no evidence to suggest Miss J was experiencing financial difficulties or she 
had ever made Vanquis aware of that. 
Miss J didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I am sorry to hear Miss J is experiencing financial difficulties and it must be a stressful 
situation for her. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Vanquis acted irresponsibly 
when providing the credit card account to Miss J and subsequently approved the increases 
in the credit limit available to her. When making a full and impartial decision here, I need to 
consider a number of factors, firstly did Vanquis carry out proportionate checks, and after 
carrying those checks, was it fair for them to provide credit facilities to Miss J, based on what 
they knew about her through those checks.
Miss J says when she initially applied for the credit card account in June 2017, she had a 
history of missed payments on other debts which should have resulted in her being declined 
for the credit card account. In addition, Miss J makes the point that if Vanquis had properly 
checked her credit file they would have seen she had issues in the past with meeting her 
commitments. Miss J says her credit score was poor and her bank statements would have 
shown she was having financial difficulties.
While Miss J may not agree, at the time Vanquis agreed the credit card limit of £250 they did 
review her application and carried out credit reference searches. From the information I have 
seen, Miss J declared her income at £20,000 per annum and while the credit searches did 
show an issue with another lender, this was 12 months prior to her application and there 
were no other issues recorded against her credit file, or any problems made known to them 
by Miss J. 
Its not unusual for credit card providers like Vanquis, to issue credit card accounts with a 
modest credit limit to begin with, and allow applicants to build up their credit ratings, these 
are generally known as low and grow facilities and I am satisfied this is what was provided 
to Miss J here. 
Miss J also raises the point that Vanquis subsequently increased her credit card limit in 
January 2018 and December 2018 to £1,000 and £2,000 respectively. Miss J feels Vanquis 
shouldnt have allowed that, because shed only been paying back the minimum on her 
credit card account with them. Miss J says if Vanquis had checked her bank account 
statements, they would have seen she had been experiencing financial difficulties. 
The first thing to say here, is simply because a consumer only pays the minimum amount on 
their credit card each month it doesnt, on its own, signify there are any financial difficulties. 
What I can say is the credit card account was maintained within the £250 limit approved, 
with no missed payments, before it was increased to £1,000, some 6 months later. This 
increase was approved after credit searches showed no further issues or adverse credit 
information against Miss J, for over 18 months. Its not unusual to see businesses like 
Vanquis allow a period of time to pass before setting a higher credit limit and I am satisfied 
this is what happened in January 2018. So here, I cant say Vanquis should have been 
aware at that point, Miss J was experiencing financial difficulties based on the information 
they had seen.
When the second increase in Miss Js credit limit was approved in December 2018 some 18 
months had passed since Miss J first applied for a credit card, and importantly around 30 
months since any missed payments or any other issues had been recorded against her 
credit file. Its also worth mentioning on the second credit card limit increase to £2,000, this 
was subject to Miss J contacting Vanquis to reconfirm her financial position. As I have 
previously stated there are no prescribed checks that businesses like Vanquis are expected 
to make. While Miss J may not agree, Im not persuaded an inspection of her bank account 
statements should have been conditional of the increased credit limit, given the satisfactory 
operation of her credit card account with Vanquis and the fact Miss J had discussed her 
financial situation with them before the new credit card limit was approved. 
There is no evidence to suggest, Miss J notified Vanquis that she was experiencing any 
financial issues at any time before or after the credit card account was provided to her, or 
later when she was asked to discuss her financial position in December 2018, when the 
credit card limit was increased to £2,000. So, I cant expect Vanquis to have known Miss J 
was experiencing any financial difficulties at that time. 
It follows, while Miss J will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of 
Vanquis here. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman