DRN-4438037
The complaint
Ms V complains AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) failed to repair all 
damage relating to a claim under a motor insurance policy. 
What happened
A third-party reversed into the front of Ms Vs car in February 2023. The bumper and grille 
suffered damage, and Ms V says warning lights on the dashboard came on. She raised a 
claim which AA accepted. AA only authorised bodywork repairs as they say the low impact 
of the incident wouldnt have caused dashboard warning lights to come on. 
Ms V told AA she wasnt happy with this. She says her car was roadworthy before the 
incident, and it was returned to her unroadworthy. 
AA appointed an independent engineer to assess the repairs. AA declined to accept 
responsibility for resolving the dashboard warning lights based on their findings. 
Ms V took her car to a main dealer to establish when the warning lights first presented. This 
was found to be during the time the car was with AAs repairer. Ms V said this information 
wasnt helpful as the warning lights were present prior to it going to the repairer. The car was 
later repaired by the main dealer at no cost to Ms V, but she complained to AA about the 
level of service provided. She says AAs refusal to assist with resolving the warning lights 
meant she had to borrow a car to get around, rely on lifts, and her partner missed work. 
AA responded to the complaint maintaining their position not to assist Ms V with the warning 
lights. As Ms V was unhappy with their response, she approached our Service for an 
impartial review. 
The Investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She recommended AA paid Ms V 
£150 compensation as she thought it was more likely than not the warning lights resulted 
from the incident. And AA could have handled matters better here. AA didnt agree and 
maintained the low impact of the incident didnt cause the warning lights problem. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A question I must answer is whether Im satisfied AA acted fairly and reasonably when 
declining to assist Ms V with resolving the dashboard warning lights. 
The impact of the incident was minor. Therefore, AA says these warning lights couldnt have 
been claim-related. All parties accept the warning lights were present prior to the repairer 
receiving the car. So, the warning lights were either present prior to the incident, or came on 
as a result of the incident. 
Im not persuaded the warning lights were pre-existing. I say this because an MOT took 
place at the end of October 2022 which passed without advisories. Then, a few months later, 
Ms Vs car was involved in an incident with a third-party. Following this, an independent 
engineer AA appointed to inspect the car said it was unroadworthy as the damage deemed it 
non-compliant with MOT regulations. They also commented on the pre-incident condition of 
the car and concluded it was in good condition without any pre-incident damage noted.
So, its my view the evidence supports Ms Vs car was roadworthy following the October 
2022 MOT, likely until a third-party collided with it (albeit at low speed) in February 2023, 
before it was deemed unroadworthy. 
AA relied in part on the independent engineers report when not offering to assist Ms V. 
Thats because the engineer didnt conclude the warning lights were present due to the 
incident, or that AA should rectify the problem. But the engineer outlined issues with the 
cooling fans, parking sensors, and an engine management light  all issues Ms V says 
prompted a dashboard warning light to come on post-incident.  
The independent engineer also commented on the main dealers findings. They said the 
main dealer informed Ms V not to drive the car, but also the bumper needed to be removed 
as they didnt think the front sensors had been connected. The bumper in question was the 
bumper impacted by the third-party. 
The main dealer eventually carried out repairs after AA declined to assist Ms V. Ms V says 
these repairs included repairing a pinched sensor as this caused a malfunction and the 
cooling fans to stay on. Fault codes were cleared, and Ms V also says a leak was found on 
the screen wash behind the bumper that was also repaired. 
Ms V didnt pay for repairs, so she didnt suffer a financial loss in this respect. However, I 
think its fair to say she had the hassle of needing to communicate with different parties, 
arrange an inspection and further repairs. I think AA could have done more here to assist Ms 
V with resolving the warning light issues. 
It seems AA would not accept responsibility to assist Ms V with resolving the issues due to 
the low impact of the collision. But its my view the evidence here supports these problems 
were more likely than not, at least in part, the result of the incident. As mentioned above, the 
car had passed an MOT only a few months prior to the February 2023 incident. And Im not 
satisfied the independent report AA provided gives strong supporting evidence to show the 
issues were pre-existing. 
So, I find it would have been fair and reasonable for AA to have done more to assist Ms V 
here. Their failure to do so caused Ms V hassle, distress, and inconvenience when having to 
borrow cars, rely on lifts, and organise further repairs. I also note Ms V says her partner had 
missed work due to not having the car available to drive. 
I appreciate much of the worry Ms V experienced was the concern over how much further 
repairs would cost her during that period. And while she didnt suffer a financial loss in 
respect of repairs, I think some compensation is due for the worry, hassle, and inconvenience caused to her when AA  in my view  unfairly and unreasonably declined to 
assist her with the dashboard warning lights. Ive also taken account of Ms Vs comments 
that her partner missed some days work while without a car, but our Service does not award 
compensation based on someones hourly or daily rate of pay. 
All things considered  I find £150 compensation fairly reflects the impact AAs level of 
service had on Ms V. Im satisfied this amount is fair, reasonable, and proportionate in the 
circumstances of this complaint. So, Ill be directing AA to pay this amount to Ms V. 
Putting things right
As set out above, its my view AA ought to have handled matters better at times  and with a 
higher level of customer service. So, they must now pay Ms V £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now 
required AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms V £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman