DRN-3846162
The complaint
Mr K complains Bank of Scotland plcs approach to strong customer authentication means 
that he cant use his online banking when hes away from home.
What happened
Mr K has a current account, a debit card, and a credit card with Bank of Scotland.
Mr K says that he used to use online banking a lot, to check his account and to make 
payments, particularly when he was abroad. He says that he used his laptop to go online if 
he was at home  if not hed borrow one of his family or friends laptops or tablets.
In March or April 2020, Mr K says that Bank of Scotland made changes to the way its online 
banking worked. He says that he was told hed need to enter a one-time passcode sent to a 
mobile phone registered in his name in order to log into his online banking or make 
payments. Mr K says that these changes meant he could no longer use his online banking 
as he doesnt have a mobile phone or want one. He says that this caused him a lot of 
problems as the changes occurred during lockdown. He says he couldnt check the balance 
on his account or make payments, and that he had to go into town and use an ATM in order 
to print out mini statements and check his balance. He says that this put him at risk.
In October 2020, Mr K says that his debit card was retained by an ATM. He says he had to 
visit a branch because of this and when he did so he discovered that the address Bank of 
Scotland had on its systems was an old address. He complained to Bank of Scotland about 
this and about the difficulties he was having using its online banking.
Bank of Scotland investigated Mr Ks complaint about his address and accepted in 
November 2020 that it had updated his address to an old address in error. Bank of Scotland 
offered him £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused. Bank of 
Scotland also investigated Mr Ks complaint about the difficulties he was having using its 
online banking. Bank of Scotland didnt uphold that part of Mr Ks complaint, saying that it 
had made changes to the way its online banking worked in order to protect his account. 
Bank of Scotland said that it couldnt send the one-time passcode by email  as Mr K had 
suggested  as email wasnt a secure way of communicating.
In February 2021 Mr K complained to Bank of Scotland a second time about problems he 
was having using its online banking. He complained that he was no longer able to access his 
online banking with his registered name, password and secure phrase. He complained that 
he now needed a one-time passcode that had to be sent to either a mobile phone or a 
landline. He said that this meant he had to be near his landline  meaning he had to be at 
home  in order to do online banking since he didnt have a mobile phone. He also said that 
he was worried that Bank of Scotland had told him that it intended to introduce the same 
process for online shopping, meaning hed soon not be able to do that too. He said that he 
wanted Bank of Scotland to introduce card readers so that he could authenticate when he 
wasnt at home, and in particular when he was abroad. Mr K said that the changes Bank of 
Scotland had made and planned to make were and would cause him a lot of problems as 
these changes occurred and were going to occur during lockdown. They meant hed put 
himself at risk and would have to continue to do so.
Bank of Scotland looked into Mr Ks second complaint about the problems he was having 
with his online banking and online shopping and said that the changes it had made were 
designed to protect his account. Bank of Scotland said that he should make sure it had his 
most up to date number and that he should call the number on the back of his card if any 
online purchases were declined.
Mr K was unhappy with Bank of Scotlands response, saying it had focussed on explaining 
why it had introduced strong customer authentication  which wasnt something hed 
objected to or complained about  rather than on why it hadnt introduced alternative ways of 
authenticating that didnt involve a mobile phone or a landline. So, he complained to us 
saying that hed soon be travelling abroad again for family reasons and to receive medical 
treatment and that hed need to be able to make important payments whilst he was abroad.
Our investigator said that we couldnt look into Mr Ks first complaint as hed referred it to us 
too late. He said that we could, however, look into Mr Ks second complaint. Having done so, 
our investigator said that Bank of Scotland hadnt acted unfairly as it was making changes to 
its security processes in order to meet regulatory requirements and had taken a commercial 
decision to do so. Our investigator said that he could see that the changes had caused Mr K 
some inconvenience because the alternatives that had been implemented werent ones 
that he liked but that didnt mean Bank of Scotland had acted unfairly.
Mr K disagreed with our investigator saying that the methods Bank of Scotland had made 
available were discriminatory and unfair towards a considerable (and often vulnerable) part 
of society. He said people without mobile phones would be severely disadvantaged  
particularly people who want to bank from abroad as online banking is the only way that they 
can do so. He also said that the changes hadnt simply caused him some inconvenience  
theyd caused him major detriment. He said Bank of Scotland could offer alternatives that 
other businesses offer  for example, card readers, and that this solution would work for him 
from any location  at home, at work, visiting friends or travelling abroad. He said that Bank 
of Scotland already offered card readers, but to customers with business accounts only. He 
said he didnt think a landline was secure as they might not only be used by the customer. In 
his case, he said he shared a landline with at least two other people as the landline was in 
the living room. More recently, Mr K has told us that the impact of being unable to use his 
online banking  particularly whilst abroad when visiting his family  has become severe 
because of wider global events. He wanted an ombudsman to look into his complaint. So, 
thats what Ive done.
Last month I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to uphold this complaint 
as I didnt think Bank of Scotland had acted fairly when it said that it wouldnt offer Mr K an 
alternative way of authenticating that didnt involve a landline or a mobile phone. I said that I 
agreed with Mr K that the options Bank of Scotland is offering dont work well when hes 
travelling / not at home and that this, therefore, puts Mr K at a disadvantage because he 
doesnt own or want a mobile phone. I also said that in this particular case, given that Bank 
of Scotland told us that it cannot offer any other options, I thought the appropriate remedy 
was to award compensation to Mr K to reflect the fact that his account and cards, although 
still useful, arent as convenient as they used to be because hell either not be able to use 
them at times when hes abroad or hell have to take his laptop  or another device he can 
trust  with him. I said I considered an award of £250 to be appropriate. I invited both parties 
to comment on my provisional decision and asked Bank of Scotland to let me know whether 
it had introduced any further alternative ways of authenticating since we started looking at 
this complaint. In particular, whether it had introduced or has plans to introduce a token or a 
card reader option as several businesses have recently done that. I said that if Bank of 
Scotland had introduced a token or a card reader option, then it would be helpful to know whether or not that option applies to online banking, online shopping or both.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. In its response, Bank of Scotland said 
that it had introduced a token that customers could use to authenticate themselves when 
doing online shopping, but not for online banking. In his response, Mr K said that hed 
checked to see whether or not he could download Bank of Scotlands mobile app to his 
laptop and he cant. He also said that he didnt think the award I was minded to make would 
motivate Bank of Scotland to make changes, that I should consider making an ongoing 
award and that an award of between £3,000 to £5,000 would more accurately reflect the 
impact on him of not having had access to his online banking for over three years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland told Mr K that it had made changes to the way online banking and online 
shopping worked and said that these changes were designed to protect his account. Bank of 
Scotland told Mr K that the changes were as a result of new regulations that were going to 
come into effect in September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector.
Bank of Scotland is right that new regulations making changes to the way businesses 
authenticate came into effect in September 2019  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). Bank of Scotland is also right that these regulations affected the whole banking 
sector. The regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong 
customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in 
Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment 
fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and gave the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, and 
designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, with the 
elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. The way Bank of Scotland has gone about those checks  and what that 
means for Mr K when hes not at home  is at the heart of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland approach to implementing strong customer authentication
Bank of Scotland has told us that its made changes to how customers log into its website 
and shop online as a result of new regulations. Bank of Scotland has told us that it now uses 
two factor authentication to identify its customers and that this involves using two out of three 
different types of identification:
 something you know (password / memorable information);
 something you have (a device you own e.g. mobile phone or laptop);
 something you are (biometrics like fingerprint or face scanning).
Bank of Scotland has told us that Mr K had three ways to authenticate, namely:
 he could label a device he owned as trusted and Bank of Scotland would recognise this 
as his usual internet device. Bank of Scotland has explained that this setting would be 
stored as a cookie on his device, so its important it doesnt get deleted. Hed log on with 
his user ID, password and memorable information as normal;
 Bank of Scotland could send a code to a registered mobile phone which he could enter 
along with his user ID, password and memorable information;
 Bank of Scotland could phone a registered landline and would give him a code number 
on screen that would need to be keyed into his telephone handset.
In other words, Bank of Scotland has told us that Mr K had to pass a knowledge based 
check (his password and memorable information) and a possession check (either using a 
trusted device or receiving a code on his mobile phone or his landline and keying it in). Bank 
of Scotlands approach has developed since 2020  thats true of many businesses  and 
Ive said more about this later on.
Why did Mr K complain?
Mr K has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone, and he doesnt want one. He has 
access to a landline when hes at home, but he lives with other people and the landline is in 
the living room, so he doesnt feel its particularly safe. More importantly, he used to rely on 
online banking when he travelled or was away from home, so sending a one-time passcode 
to that landline doesnt help as he wouldnt be there to receive the code. Hes also told us 
that he a laptop (although he hasnt made it a trusted device) but that its neither practical 
nor reasonable for him to carry his computer with him when he travels just for the sake of 
having a trusted device not least because it would take up considerable space and weight in his luggage. Hes told us he usually uses computers and devices of friends or acquaintances 
when he travels, or public computers in libraries and internet cafes. He knows that those 
arent the type of devices that should be made trusted devices.
Its clear from what Mr K has told us that his main complaint about Bank of Scotlands 
approach to strong customer authentication is that it doesnt allow him to access his online 
banking when hes travelling or away from home. Hes able to access his online banking 
when hes at home, as he has a landline to which codes can be sent, but as he rightly points 
out this only works when hes at home and not when hes abroad or travelling. 
Mr K isnt complaining about Bank of Scotlands decision to introduce strong customer 
authentication, which is an important measure designed to combat fraud, and one that PSPs 
are obliged to implement. And hes not complaining about having to complete additional 
checks either. He agrees that strong customer authentication is an important measure 
designed to combat fraud. Im satisfied that the only reason why Mr K complained was 
because he didnt feel Bank of Scotland had offered a method of authenticating that would 
allow him to continue to access his online banking when hes travelling or away from home. 
He wouldnt have complained had Bank of Scotland, for example, offered him the option of 
authenticating using a card reader or a token. Ill come back to this later as I asked Bank of 
Scotland if it had introduced a card reader and / or a token option or had plans to do so since 
Mr K originally complained as I know a number of businesses have recently done so.
Bank of Scotlands approach to strong customer authentication - now
Bank of Scotlands approach to strong customer authentication has developed since Mr K 
originally complained. Bank of Scotland, like many other businesses, has, for example, now 
extended strong customer authentication to online shopping. That means that when one of 
its customers, for example, puts their debit or credit card into a website in order to make an 
online purchase, Bank of Scotland will sometimes check that the person who has done that 
is their customer using strong customer authentication. Bank of Scotland also now offers the 
option of its customers authenticating using its mobile banking app. That means customers 
can, for example, authenticate using their fingerprint or their face, amongst other things. In 
other words, Bank of Scotland now offers the option to its customers of authenticating using 
the inherence factor. Bank of Scotland told us that its mobile banking app isnt an app that 
can only be downloaded onto a mobile phone. It told us that it can be downloaded onto any 
mobile device  including potentially a tablet and / or a laptop. In his response to my 
provisional decision, Mr K said hed tried to download the app onto his laptop but hadnt 
been able to do so and pointed out that Bank of Scotlands website listed certain 
requirements that had to be met in order to download the app which his hardware and 
software didnt meet. He said hed still need a mobile number to complete this process. Ive 
taken these comments into account.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a practical 
understanding of the requirements, our regulatory approach and how businesses will 
experience regulatory supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is intended to illustrate 
ways (but not the only ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant regulations and 
rules.
In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication solutions 
on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected characteristics, as part 
of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a PSP [Payment Service 
Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to comply with their obligation to 
apply strong customer authentication in line with regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For 
example, not all payment service users will possess a mobile phone or smart phone and 
payments may be made in areas without mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a 
viable means to strongly authenticate customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Should Bank of Scotland have done more for Mr K when he originally complained?
Mr K has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone. So, Ive taken the papers the FCA has 
published on strong customer authentication and its thoughts  particularly in relation to 
people who do not possess a mobile  into account when deciding whether or not Bank of 
Scotland should have done more when Mr K originally complained and whether or not its 
actions were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In addition, Ive taken the Payment 
Services Regulations  in particular, Article 100  into account as well as FCA Principle 6  
that firms must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Having taken everything into account, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Bank of 
Scotland to implement strong customer authentication  its an important measure to help 
combat fraud. Nor do I think it was unfair or unreasonable of Bank of Scotland to decide that 
it was going to rely on knowledge and possession when authenticating its customers (its 
since offered inherence). I do, however, agree with Mr K that Bank of Scotland needed to 
provide its customers with an alternative to a mobile phone in order to prove possession. 
Bank of Scotland offered two alternatives at the time, namely asking its customers to key a 
code that would be displayed on screen into their landline when Bank of Scotland called and 
allowing its customers to trust a device they own.
I agree with Mr K that a landline might not always be the safest way to authenticate a 
customer in that theres no guarantee that only the customer has access to it. And I accept, 
for example, that his landline is one he shares with other people and is in a communal area 
 a living room. But I dont think I can say its unfair or unreasonable that Mr K has to use his 
landline to authenticate if he wants to use his online banking or do online shopping at home 
not least because the code is only useful if the person who receives it also has other details 
needed to complete the transaction to which the code relates. More importantly, Mr K is 
clearly far more concerned about being able to use his online banking or do online shopping 
when hes not at home.
Mr K has a laptop that only he has access to which he could label as a trusted device. Hes 
told us that he hasnt done this, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that he wouldnt be willing to 
do so. Mr K has instead said that its neither practical nor reasonable for him to carry his 
computer with him when he travels just for the sake of having a trusted device not least because it would take up considerable space and weight in his luggage. Hes told us he 
usually uses computers and devices of friends or acquaintances when he travels, or public 
computers in libraries and internet cafes.
The FCA has said  and I think its fair and reasonable  that in its view firms should be 
giving their customers several different ways to authenticate themselves, and not just rely on 
mobile phones, so that authentication works for all groups of consumers. I can see why the 
FCA said this  as its paper makes clear, not everyone owns a mobile phone, nor is 
everyone able to use a mobile phone. So, its important that these groups arent overlooked 
otherwise they could find that theyre unable to access online banking or make online 
payments or manage their accounts remotely. And these arent the only groups potentially 
affected. Or the only scenarios when authentication can be problematic, depending on the 
solution adopted.
I accept that Mr K used to use his online banking a lot when he wasnt at home  particularly 
when he travelled abroad  and Ive no reason to believe the same wont be true for his 
online shopping. I accept that a card reader or a token that would allow Mr K to generate a 
code in these circumstances would be extremely helpful for Mr K as they would allow him to 
log into his online banking or do online shopping wherever he happened to be  as long as 
he had internet access where he was because without that he wouldnt be able to get online. 
Mr K has given us a number of examples where hes tried and failed to use his online 
banking when hes not been at home. He will, of course, only have to worry about strong 
customer authentication when he is online  either to access his account or to make a 
payment or to shop. If he used his laptop to go online, then thats a device that Im satisfied 
he can trust. As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think thats unreasonable. I remain 
of that view. It does, however, mean that Mr K would have to have his laptop  or a device 
he could trust  with him when he travels if he wants to be able to authenticate. If his laptop 
or device was the only way hed be able to get online when hes travelling  given that its 
only when he online that he needs to be able to authenticate  then I dont think that this 
would be unreasonable. But Im satisfied that there are a number of ways that Mr K can go 
online without his laptop or a device of his own  hes given several examples, mostly 
involving shared devices in relation to which saving cookies isnt recommended. In the 
circumstances, I agree with Mr K that the options Bank of Scotland is offering dont work well 
when hes travelling / not at home and that this, therefore, puts Mr K at a disadvantage 
because he doesnt own or want a mobile phone. In my provisional decision I said that in this 
particular case, given that it appeared Bank of Scotland couldnt offer any other options, I 
thought the appropriate remedy was to award compensation to Mr K to reflect the fact that 
his account and cards, although still useful, werent going to be as convenient as they used 
to be because hell either not be able to use them at times when hes abroad or hell have to 
take his laptop  or another device he can trust  with him. I said I considered an award of 
£250 to be appropriate.
In its response, Bank of Scotland let me know that it had introduced a new way for its 
customers to authenticate when theyre doing their online shopping. My understanding is 
that Bank of Scotland has introduced a token, but the response on this case suggests it 
might be a card reader. Ultimately in this particular case I dont think it matters whether its a 
token or a card reader as Im satisfied Mr K could use either. It means Im satisfied that Mr K 
wont have difficulties doing online shopping when hes not at home even if he chooses not 
to make his laptop a trusted device or decides that his laptop is too heavy and bulky to 
carry with him when he travels. The token / card reader wont, however, help him 
authenticate if he wants to do his online banking when hes not at home. I know thats 
important to Mr K and that the only option that will work for him  because he doesnt own a 
mobile phone  is taking a trusted device with him which isnt entirely convenient. In the 
circumstances, I remain of the view that I should, in this particular case, award 
compensation to reflect the fact that his account and cards, although still useful, arent going to be as convenient as they used to be because hell either not be able to use them at times 
when hes abroad or hell have to take his laptop  or another device he can trust  with him. 
Putting things right
Mr K would like me to make an award that will motivate Bank of Scotland to make changes. I 
can understand where hes coming from, but thats not the purpose of the compensation 
awards we make. Our awards are to compensate for distress and inconvenience. Hed also 
like me to make an award of between £3,000 and £5,000 having set out in detail the different 
ways in which not being able to manage his accounts has impacted him.
Ive thought about what Mr K has said and about the options that he now has. Having done 
so I remain of the view that an award of £250 is fair, so thats the award Im going to make. 
Ive taken into account the fact that Im only looking at Mr Ks second complaint  in other 
words the one he made in February 2021 as his first complaint was referred to us out of time 
 when making this award.
I hope that both parties will now speak to each other so that Mr K is able to set up a trusted 
device and get himself a token or a card reader. It would be helpful if Bank of Scotland 
could also show Mr K how to download its mobile app onto his laptop using his landline, if 
needs be and if possible, to complete that process assuming this is possible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr K £250 in compensation to 
reflect the fact that his account and cards, although still useful, arent as convenient as they 
used to be.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman