DRN-3558284
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with the settlement Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBG) offered 
after she claimed under her contents insurance for water damage.
What happened
Ms R had contents insurance with LBG, which provided cover up to £50,000. Her home and 
contents were damaged when water leaked in from the flat above. She claimed under her 
contents policy with LBG and it accepted her claim.
LBG arranged for Ms R to live in alternative accommodation and her contents were put into 
storage while her home was repaired. Unfortunately, the storage company lost or damaged 
some of her belongings. Over the next two years, Ms R and LBG disagreed about the claim 
settlement and compensation for the lost and damaged items.
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again, 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Ms R hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain.
Firstly, Ill explain my role. Its for me to decide whether LBG handled Ms Rs claim fairly in 
light of the evidence and in line with the policy. Where things went wrong, Ive looked at 
whether it made a fair offer to put matters right.
The main issue is that Ms R doesnt think LBG should pay for the service provided by the 
third-party storage company because it damaged or lost her possessions. Also, she doesnt 
think it made a fair settlement offer.
Storage company
Theres no dispute that the storage and repair company LBG used didnt provide the 
standard of service Ms R couldve expected. LBG agreed that some of Ms Rs possessions 
were lost, disposed of, or damaged beyond that already caused by the escape of water. As 
LBG appointed the storage company, LBG is also responsible for its actions in respect of Ms 
Rs claim.
The policy schedule confirms cover up to £50,000 for Ms Rs contents. The policy wording 
states:
How we settle claims
This section details how we settle claims under your policy. We decide how a claim 
will be settled.
What we pay:
The most we will pay for any one event or series of events is the amount shown in 
your latest policy schedule. 
LBG paid the storage company for the service it provided and settled Ms Rs claim from the 
balance of her policy limit. But Ms R doesnt think LBG shouldve paid the storage company 
anything because of the poor service it provided. As the payment is taken from her policy 
limit, she doesnt think its fair.
Looking at the policy, it says:
We have trusted suppliers who can repair or replace your lost or damaged items, 
including electrical equipment, jewellery, bikes and furniture.
So, Im satisfied that LBG was entitled to use a third-party storage company and it wouldve 
paid for that service. 
The storage and repair company costs came to over £30,000, which included soft contents, 
such as clothes, and hard contents, such as technology items. In light of the poor service, 
LBG agreed a reduction in charges to just over £21,000. More recently it confirmed the total 
was actually a little over £19,000. 
LBG offered to settle Ms Rs claim to the full policy limit less the fees paid to the storage 
company. That means LBGs total settlement figure, payable to Ms R, was around £31,000.
Looking again at the policy, its clear that LBG would only settle the claim up to the policy 
limit, and thats after it has deducted any relevant costs. It also says:
How we settle claims
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead.
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the nearest 
equivalent less any discounts obtainable.
If an item is irreplaceable, we will base our payment on expert opinion of its value 
immediately prior to its loss or damage.
The storage company charged for its service, which included some repairs and 
replacements. Its standard practice that these costs form part of the claim total, and I see no 
reason for that to be different here. So, I cant say it was unfair for LBG to pay from Ms Rs 
policy limit. 
While some things did go wrong, the evidence doesnt persuade me that LBG should 
withhold all fees payable to the storage company and increase the payment to Ms R. Thats 
because the evidence suggests the post water-damage loss was not as extensive as 
described, or cant fairly be attributed to the third-partys actions. Ive reached this conclusion 
based on the following evidence:
LBGs records show it was four months before it was allowed to remove all of Ms Rs 
contents from her home, during which time she delayed the work and remained in 
her home. Because of that, mould growth was more extensive, and damage 
continued to happen while the contents couldnt be dried out, repaired or stored.  
Photos show that some of the damage to clothes, including that attributed to moth 
damage, was pre-existing.Photos of possessions Ms R provided for valuation purposes are based on higher-
specification items, such as designer handbags.
Looking at the list of possessions and Ms Rs valuation of each, and LBGs records of the 
claim, it seems that she was underinsured for her contents. In such circumstances, LBG 
would be entitled to assess the total value of Ms Rs home contents and reduce the 
settlement figure to the corresponding percentage of cover. I note it hasnt done so. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that by offering to settle the claim to the full policy limit without taking 
into consideration any underinsurance, LBG treated Ms R reasonably.
Disposal
Ms R said the storage company disposed of her possessions that it considered to be beyond 
economic repair. She said she didnt agree to that. LBG provided a copy of a document 
which said:
I hereby, authorise, [storage company] to itemise, uplift & dispose of any items that in 
their professional options, they believe to be beyond economic restoration (BER).
I confirm that I have removed any items from the property that I do not want to be 
disposed, and provide details below of any specific items that I would like to retain, 
regardless of condition [sic]
The document is signed and dated 19 August 2019 by Ms R, and theres no indication that 
she asked to retain any items. This is supported by two separate notes in LBGs records that 
say Ms R and her personal claims consultant agreed to disposal of BER items. I have no 
reason to doubt the authenticity of the document, so Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
LBG to dispose of BER possessions without seeking Ms Rs further permission. 
Compensation
Turning to the specific items that LBG and Ms R agreed were lost or damaged, the storage 
company offered compensation of just under £8,000. LBG offered compensation of a little 
over £5,000 in recognition of the poor claim handling Ms R experienced. These sums are in 
addition to the claim settlement. 
Although Ms R doesnt think its enough, I havent seen anything in the evidence to suggest 
that a higher sum is warranted. Thats because, as Ive said above, some of the damage 
was already evident, and the records suggest Ms R didnt make arrangements to prevent 
ongoing damage before LBG was able to remove her contents. Overall, Im satisfied that the 
compensation offered is fair and I see no reason to require LBG to provide more.
Summary
Overall, theres no doubt that Ms Rs experience was unsatisfactory, and I can only 
sympathise with the inconvenience and distress caused. But, Im satisfied that LBG did 
enough to put matters right. It reduced the fees it paid to the third-party storage company, 
meaning that the claim settlement paid directly to Ms R increased. LBG arranged for the 
third party to pay compensation for lost and damaged items and it paid Ms R, directly, 
compensation for the poor claims experience. I see no reason to ask LBG to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman