The complaint
Mrs C complains that Symmetric Systems Ltd (trading as Bank-Smart) has charged her 
cancellation fees. 
What happened
In April 2019, Bank-Smart wrote to Mrs C to let her know it had taken over payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claims shed registered with another claims management 
company (CMC), which had stopped trading. It enclosed its terms of engagement and letters 
of authority (LOA) for Mrs C to sign.
Mrs C signed and returned the forms to Bank-Smart in early May. 
In July 2019, Bank-Smart sent Mrs C several LOAs for her to sign. It said it appreciated 
shed completed similar documents previously, but the lenders had said the documents 
didnt meet their standards. Although Mrs Cs contract with Bank-Smart was still valid, it was 
still required to obtain a new LOA if a third party required it.
In response, Mrs C sent Bank-Smart an email saying that the accounts had been looked into 
by the CMC Bank-Smart had taken her claims over from. Any refunds shed received had 
been settled with fees being paid to the previous CMC. She said she hadn't asked Bank-
Smart to look these accounts. Mrs C didn't receive a response to her email, so she sent 
another one in July 2019. She also sent a letter in August and a further email in October. 
Bank-Smart didn't respond to Mrs Cs correspondence until October 2019, when it sent her 
emails saying it would cancel her claims and invoice her costs on each claim. Mrs C says 
she tried to call Bank-Smart to discuss this, but she couldn't get through because there was 
a high volume of calls and she was advised to email. So, she made a formal complaint. 
In response to her complaint, Bank-Smart said 25 (of 40 claims registered) had been 
invoiced for cancellation costs totalling £2,402.10. It thought these were reasonable, but it 
offered to reduce the cancellation costs to £990 (including VAT) provided payment was 
made in full within 30 days or a repayment plan was agreed. 
Mrs C didn't agree that she owed Bank-Smart for cancellation costs. She sent us copies of 
letters from various lenders and invoices from her previous CMC as evidence that several of 
these claims were settled well before she agreed for Bank-Smart to represent her. She told 
us she was also concerned about Bank-Smart investigating other claims without her 
consent. Most of them didnt have PPI attached, so she hadnt signed the LOAs relating to 
them.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 May 2020 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint. In that decision I said:
DRN-1922349Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Terms of engagement
Industry rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) required Bank-Smart to ensure 
that each of its communications with Mrs C were clear, fair and not misleading. 
When Bank-Smart first wrote to Mrs C in April 2019 it told her, You should have already 
received confirmation from (previous CMC) that they are unable to continue providing a 
Claims Management service and that Bank-Smart has been passed details of your claim. It 
enclosed a copy of its letter of engagement and two LOAs for Mrs C to sign. The first LOA 
had twenty accounts with various businesses listed on it for PPI. The second LOA contained 
a list of the same accounts, with default charges at the top.
Mrs C has sent us evidence that several of the claims listed on the documents Bank-Smart 
sent to her in April 2019, were settled back in 2018 or earlier. She says she isn't able to 
provide this evidence for all of the accounts, but Im persuaded by her testimony that the 
only outstanding claim was for the account thats listed last on the LOA. 
Bank-Smart says it only had basic information from Mrs Cs previous CMC, so it didn't know 
the status of her claims. But I cant see that Bank-Smart made Mrs C aware of that. So, I 
think its reasonable for Mrs C to have thought that when she signed the forms, she was only 
giving Bank-Smart the authority to pursue her one outstanding claim.
The letter of engagement Mrs C signed contains information about what might happen in the 
event of Cancellation, Breach and Termination. It says that Bank-Smart could charge up to 
£400 plus VAT for each claim if Mrs C cancelled or breached the terms of agreement before 
settlement was awarded but outside of the 14 day cooling-off period.
But the FCA requires CMCs to make key information prominent and easy to identify. And 
Bank-Smart has referred to Mrs C having 40 claims, which could all potentially have incurred 
cancellation costs. This could amount to quite a significant amount of money if Mrs C later 
decided to cancel or was seen to not be co-operating with the process. So, I think it was 
important for this potentially onerous term to be drawn to Mrs Cs attention before she signed 
the paperwork. 
I cant see that Bank-Smart highlighted this information to her before Mrs C agreed for it to 
represent her. And I dont think Mrs C would have signed the paperwork if shed realised that 
she could be charged costs for 40 claims if she decided to cancel or didn't do what Bank-
Smart asked her to do. So, I dont think its fair for Bank-Smart to charge Mrs C cancellation 
costs.
Customer service
Mrs C has sent us copies of the emails she sent to Bank-Smart in July 2019 as well as an 
automated response from Bank-Smart. So, Im satisfied that Bank-Smart received these. But 
from what Ive seen and been told, Bank-Smart didn't respond to these or the follow up letter 
she sent in August. 
Bank-Smart has sent us a copy of the email Mrs C sent it on 17 October 2019 which says: 
Further to my previous emails and a letter I have had all PPI claims settled by my previous 
settlement company ... If I have not forwarded any documents its because I either have not had PPI on the product or the claim is closed. The most recent letter relates to your ref I 
have never had PPI on this overdraft. I have not had any response from my previous emails 
or letters cancelling your service. 
Bank-Smart seems to have dealt with this as if it was a straightforward cancellation by 
sending a series of what appear to be standard emails. But Mrs C wasn't cancelling Bank-
Smarts service so she could continue her claims with the lenders directly or use a different 
claims management company. She was letting Bank-Smart know that the claims had already 
been settled, or there was no PPI, and that Bank-Smart would be wasting its time by looking 
into them. If Bank-Smart had discussed this with Mrs C when she first tried to contact it in 
July, August or even in October, it might have been able to resolve the situation 
satisfactorily.  
Bank-Smart also says that if it finds a claim has already been settled or does not have PPI, it 
cancels the claim free of charge. If Bank-Smart had responded to Mrs C appropriately, it 
would have given her the opportunity to provide evidence that her claims had already been 
settled to allow it to cancel her claims free of charge. If Mrs C wasnt able to provide 
evidence for all the claims, it would be up to Bank-Smart decide whether or not to continue 
to pursue them, with the knowledge that they were unlikely to be successful. Mrs C wouldn't 
have had to pay anything for unsuccessful claims under the terms of her agreement with 
Bank-Smart.
In conclusion
I dont think Bank-Smart has acted fairly or reasonably in charging Mrs C cancellation costs, 
given the circumstances. So, I intend to direct Bank-Smart to reverse all the charges its 
made for its services.
As Ive said, Im satisfied that when Mrs C engaged Bank-Smarts services her intention was 
for it to only pursue her claim against one lender. Mrs C says she is yet to receive an offer of 
redress regarding this claim. Its possible that she might not receive anything. I think it would 
be fair for Bank-Smart to charge Mrs C its fee of 20% (plus VAT) of any settlement from this 
particular lender or cancellation costs for that claim if this is what Mrs C would prefer. But I 
think it would only be fair for Bank-Smart to charge her reasonable costs for one claim and it 
would need to let Mrs C know what these are to allow her to make an informed decision.
From what Mrs C has told us I understand this has been a very frustrating and distressing 
experience for her. So, I also intend to direct Bank-Smart to pay her £100 to compensate her 
for the trouble and upset shes experienced.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me further information or comments they wanted 
me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mrs C said she agreed with what Id said in my provisional decision. She was willing to either 
pay Bank-Smart a reasonable cancellation fee or 20% (plus VAT) of any redress she might 
receive for her one outstanding claim.
Bank-Smart said Mrs Cs previous CMC didn't progress any default claims on behalf of their 
clients. It disagreed that all of Mrs Cs claims had already been dealt with by the previous 
CMC. It said it was worried that Id appeared to take Mrs Cs accusations as fact with no 
evidence or investigation of their validity. Its almost certain that none of Mrs Cs claims have 
been fully settled in the unlikely event theyve been settled at all.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions havent changed from those I reached in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why. 
The crux of Mrs Cs complaint is that she had only intended for Bank-Smart to pursue her 
claim against one lender. She understood that her other PPI claims had already been settled 
or there was no PPI. When she received further paperwork relating to other accounts, she 
contacted Bank-Smart to explain this because she didn't want to waste Bank-Smarts time. 
But Bank-Smart didn't respond to Mrs C for several months and then invoiced her for 
multiple cancellation charges.
Mrs C has provided evidence that several of her PPI claims have been settled prior to Bank-
Smart taking over her claims. This information has been shared with Bank-Smart. 
I cant see that Bank-Smart explained to Mrs C why she needed to complete a form to 
recover penalty charges or why it thought it might be able to claim additional redress for 
accounts where PPI claims had already been settled. So, I think its reasonable for Mrs C to 
have thought that if a PPI claim was settled, there was no further redress to pursue for that 
particular account. 
My main reason for upholding Mrs Cs complaint is because Bank-Smart didn't highlight 
important information in its terms and conditions which said it could charge up to £400 per 
claim if Mrs C cancelled or breached the terms of engagement. Bank-Smart said that this 
allowed it to charge Mrs C cancellation charges for 40 claims, which could add up to a 
significant amount of money. So, I think this is an important and potentially onerous term that 
should have been brought to Mrs Cs attention before she agreed to take on Bank-Smarts 
services.
My second reason for upholding Mrs Cs complaint is that Bank-Smart didn't engage with 
Mrs Cs explanation as to why she hadn't completed the documents it had asked for. Bank-
Smart had the opportunity to discuss this with Mrs C and could have come to a resolution 
that wouldn't have involved Mrs C being charged cancellation fees.
I remain satisfied that Mrs Cs intention was for Bank-Smart to pursue her one outstanding 
claim. So, I think a fair outcome is for Bank-Smart to only be allowed to charge Mrs C a 
cancellation fee or commission for that one claim and pay Mrs C £100 for trouble and upset.
Putting things right
Bank-Smart must reverse all the charges its made for its services. 
If Mrs C receives a settlement for her one outstanding claim, Bank-Smart can invoice her for 
its commission of 20% (plus VAT). Alternatively, if Mrs C decides to cancel her agreement 
with Bank-Smart before the lender makes a settlement offer, Bank-Smart may charge her a 
reasonable cancellation fee, in line with the terms of the engagement. But Bank-Smart must 
let Mrs C know what the cancellation fee is so she can make an informed decision before 
cancelling.
Bank-Smart must also pay Mrs C £100 for trouble and upset.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Symmetric Systems 
Ltd to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman