DRN-2261151
The complaint
Mr M has complained about POLICY EXCESS INSURE LTDs (PEX) service after he 
cancelled a motor breakdown policy hed bought through it. 
All references to PEX include its agents. 
What happened
Mr M took out motor breakdown policy cover through PEX, an insurance broker, in July 2019 
but on the same day he decided he wanted to cancel it because he wasnt happy with the 
level of cover offered. Mr M spoke to a PEX advisor who gave him an email address to send 
his cancellation request to. 
Mr M says he emailed PEX on the same day to say he found its service to be appalling and 
that he was unhappy that his address and the start date for the policy were wrong on his 
policy documents. He also said he was unhappy that he wouldnt be covered for the first 30 
days and was also concerned there was no cover for vandalism. He added that his car was 
going to be 15 years old the following month and that the policy wouldnt cover him. Mr M 
then emailed PEX on 31 July 2019 to ask that his policy be cancelled and this was done by 
PEX the following day. 
Mr M told us that despite his emails and a number of calls he made to PEX in the months 
that followed the cancellation of the policy he received no refund despite being told on the 
phone that this would come through within seven days. He also wrote to PEX in 
September 2019 and made a further complaint but received no response. Mr M told us that 
the refund eventually came through in December 2019.  
As Mr M hadnt had a response to his complaint from PEX he complained to us. He said he 
wanted PEX to receive a huge fine and to stop trading and also for him to be compensated 
by at least £200 for the time he spent trying to get his refund. 
Our investigator told Mr M that as we are not the regulator, we wouldnt be able to fine PEX 
or stop it from trading. 
PEX said it wasnt aware of the complaint but said that the refund had been issued. It said it 
uses a third party payment gateway to make payments and that it wasnt able to show when 
the refund reached Mr Ms account. PEX also said that the policy was sold on a non-advised 
basis and that Mr M wouldve been aware of the terms of the policy before purchasing it. It 
also said that it had arranged a discount for Mr M despite him not having a particular 
membership that would entitle him to this, and also that its handler told Mr M it would still 
ensure his vehicle was covered despite it being 15 years old. It said in order to process the 
cancellation Mr M shouldve gone through an online portal but despite not doing so it still 
agreed to cancel the policy, waive the £4.99 cancellation fee and issue a refund. It said this 
was a cheap breakdown policy, costing around £26 and that it had cost it a lot more dealing 
with Mr Ms complaint. 
Another investigator then reviewed the complaint in full and said PEX should pay Mr M £75 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused him and said the policy refund shouldve been 
issued much earlier than it was. Both Mr M and PEX accepted our investigators view but as 
the compensation was not paid, Mr M asked for the complaint to go to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. 
As both parties have accepted our investigators view I dont think its necessary to go over 
facts that the parties have already agreed to in great detail.
Mr M says his bank told him the refund was paid into his account in December 2019 and as 
far as I know PEX also hasnt disputed this though its file suggests that it requested the 
refund to be paid to Mr M towards the end of September 2019. Either way I think this was far 
too long and I would have expected the refund to have been paid within a couple of weeks of 
the policy being cancelled at the most. So, I understand why Mr M has been unhappy about 
this and think this would have caused him a degree of distress and inconvenience. 
Mr M also said he wrote to PEX a few times and didnt receive a response and he also 
provided details of a number of calls he had with it where he had to repeat what had 
happened and ask for his refund. He also said he was promised call backs he never 
received. PEX has provided us with two of the initial calls but none of the subsequent ones 
but it hasnt denied that they were made, though it has said it wasnt aware of Mr Ms 
complaint until we became involved. Mr M has provided details of these calls together with 
the dates as well as the names of the handlers he spoke to. So, on balance, I think these 
calls were made as Mr M says they were. Mr M was also able to provide evidence of at least 
one of his complaint letters being delivered to PEX in September 2019 and which he says he 
didnt receive a response to. Mr M has provided a post office receipt which shows that the 
letter was delivered to PEX at the correct post code and that it was also signed for. So I 
think, on balance, Mr M did enough to send this to PEX but it didnt reply.  
Overall, I think PEXs service was poor in that it didnt issue the policy refund for a number 
months for no good reason. And I also think it was poor that it didnt respond to Mr Ms 
letters. I think this caused Mr M a degree of distress and inconvenience and I think PEX 
should pay him £75 to compensate him for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Unless it has already done so 
POLICY EXCESS INSURE LTD should pay Mr M £75 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him.
If it hasn't already paid the compensation POLICY EXCESS INSURE LTD must pay it within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than 
this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
If POLICY EXCESS INSURE LTD pays interest and considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman