DRN-2127139
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums 
they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C bought a single trip travel insurance policy. The insurer was Great Lakes and 
the policy was sold by a separate business. 
The policy was purchased on 10 February 2020, to cover Mr and Mrs C from 1 June to 
30 August 2020 for their planned motorhome holiday abroad. But the cancellation cover 
started immediately after booking the policy, 10 February 2020.
Mr and Mrs C paid £342.65 for the standard level of travel insurance cover, which also 
covered Mr Cs declared medical conditions. The premium Mr and Mrs C paid for the 
standard level of travel insurance cover included a discount of £76.96. 
Due to Covid-19 government restrictions Mr and Mrs C cancelled their holiday plans. They 
say they had no cancellation costs because they hadnt yet booked anything. On 18 March 
2020 Mr and Mrs C contacted the broker to cancel their travel insurance policy. They wanted 
a full cash refund of premiums.
Great Lakes offered a voucher for a new policy with it for £266.17 which Great Lakes says 
represents a pro-rata refund of the premiums from the date Mr and Mrs C cancelled the 
policy to the end of their intended travel date in August 2020. This is a period of around 166 
day. The voucher is valid for 36 months from the date of cancellation. 
As an alternative, Great Lakes offered to change the start date of the policy within 18 months 
of the original purchase date, for a new trip of the same length and destination. But for that 
offer Great Lakes required Mr and Mrs C to have a new trip booking in place. In the 
discussions around that offer, it became clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have a trip booked 
when they bought the policy. This led to Mr and Mrs C complaining about the mis-sale of the 
policy as they say they were led to believe they shouldnt have had the policy in the first 
place without a booked holiday. They also say they didnt receive appropriate information in 
the policy sale about the policy cancellation information.
Mr and Mrs C complained to us. Our investigator said as the policy wasnt sold by 
Great Lakes the mis-sale issues Mr and Mrs C raised would be looked at separately and 
against the business which sold the policy. On the complaint about the premium refund, our 
investigator thought Great Lakes offers were fair and it didnt need to pay Mr and Mrs C a 
full cash refund. 
Mr and Mrs C want an ombudsmans decision. They say theyre concerned that Great Lakes 
wont honour the voucher and want a cash refund.
Before I made my decision I asked Great Lakes to clarify the terms of the offer. Great Lakes 
said the voucher was valid for 36 months from the date of policy cancellation and was 
transferable so could be gifted to someone else but not sold on. The voucher could be used 
to purchase single trip and annual policies. The pro rata credit was calculated using the  
whole time there was policy cover. There was no split premium rate between pre-trip and 
during the trip cover.
Great Lakes also clarified that its alternative offer to change the start date of the original 
policy was no longer available as its underwriting restrictions meant it wouldnt change the 
dates on an expired policy. The original policy expired in August 2020. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is just about Mr and Mrs Cs policy premium refund complaint against 
Great Lakes. Our investigator correctly explained that the policy mis-sale issues Mr and 
Mrs C raised need to be considered as a separate complaint. 
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs C held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry 
rules, even if Mr and Mrs C had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they wouldnt be entitled 
to a full refund of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk of them 
cancelling an upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time 
(although in this situation Mr and Mrs C hadnt actually booked a trip at the time of policy 
cancellation). 
The policy terms and conditionsThe terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside of the 14 day cooling off period, no 
premium will be refunded. However, discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mr and Mr Cs cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
them than is required by industry rules. But Mr and Mrs Cs policy was purchased on 
10 February 2020 and cancelled on 18 March 2020. This was more than 14 days after they 
bought the policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider 
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of 
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs C are entitled to any refund of premiums under the 
terms and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Cs plans for a trip  and therefore the need for this single trip 
insurance policy  changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought 
about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry 
rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs contract because of the exceptional 
and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Cs contract with Great Lakes to 
be performed  cancellation cover under the policy started on 10 February 2020. 
Mr and Mrs C werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great Lakes also 
covered Mr and Mrs C for cancellation cover from the policy start date. So, the premium Mr 
and Mrs C paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any of a 
number of listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mr C falling ill with a 
declared pre-existing medical condition. 
In this case Mr and Mrs C hadnt booked a holiday at the time they cancelled their holiday 
plans. But that was Mr and Mrs Cs choice. Had they booked, Great Lakes would have covered the risk until the booked holiday was cancelled. Great Lakes has told us that its offer 
of the pro rata voucher takes into consideration the whole time on cover, which was from 
10 February 2020. There is no premium split rate between pre-travel cancellation and post-
departure cover.
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs C 
with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single trip travel insurance policy 
from the date the policy was cancelled. 
Great Lakes has clarified that its alternative offer to change the start date of the original 
policy is no longer available as the original policy has now expired. It has told us that 
underwriting restrictions mean the change of original policy date isnt possible, which I think 
is reasonable.
How the refund should be paid 
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr and Mrs Cs 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I understand Mr and Mrs Cs reasons for doing so, it was their decision to cancel the 
insurance policy. Mr and Mrs C entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium 
in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. 
Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved 
to a future date.    
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mr and Mrs C. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that 
voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. 
The voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months from the policy 
cancellation,18 March 2020, and is fully transferrable, so it can be used by either Mr and 
Mrs C or by a third party, for example their friends or family. The voucher can be used to buy 
a future travel insurance policy  either annual or single trip. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C may feel that the credit voucher should be for the full  
premium they paid because although they had cancellation cover from 10 February 2020 
they had not incurred any holiday booking costs to be covered at the time they cancelled the 
policy. But as Great Lakes offer for a pro-rata refund of the premium is more that it has to do 
under industry guidance or the policy terms I still think its pro rata credit voucher offer is 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs C are worried Great Lakes might not honour the voucher. If Great Lakes didnt 
honour the voucher Mr and Mrs C could raise a further complaint. But I have no reason to 
think Great Lakes wont honour the voucher. I dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher 
are unreasonably restrictive, so I think the voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances. 
The calculation of the voucher 
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and 
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period 
of cover. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied 
that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly or any differently to other customers in 
similar circumstances. 
The voucher value has been calculated based on Mr and Mrs Cs unused period of standard 
travel insurance cover. 
The premium Mr and Mrs C paid for this policy was for a period of approximately 203 days 
from the date cancellation cover started, 10 February 2020, to the original policy end date, 
30 August 2020. 
The value of the voucher which Great Lakes has offered to Mr and Mrs C equates to the 
premiums equivalent to 166 unused days of cover from the date the policy was cancelled 
until the planned end date of the trip on 30 August 2020. 
I think this fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be asking Great Lakes to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman