DRN-3335049
The complaint
Mr P complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt process a payment he 
made correctly.
What happened
Mr P arranged a payment to be made to a relative as a gift. Mr P selected a future date he 
wanted the payment to be made on  a Saturday.  
When Mr Ps relative told him the payment hadnt been received on Saturday, Mr P 
contacted the bank the same day. Initially, Clydesdale said they thought the payment would 
go through later on the Saturday, but Mr P says he called back a second time (as the 
payment still hadnt been received) and was told the payment wouldnt be processed until 
the Monday. 
Mr P complained to Clydesdale. They apologised for any inconvenience and agreed to pass 
on feedback about how their app could be clearer about when payments dated for non-
working days would be processed. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Ps complaint. He said, in summary, the payment itself had 
been processed in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account and Clydesdale had 
agreed with Mr Ps comments that this wasnt made clear to customers in the app. He 
thought Clydesdales apology and feedback provided to the relevant area was sufficient to 
put things right in the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said this because he felt Clydesdale 
werent providing a service in line with their own terms and conditions because they gave 
him the wrong information over the phone and the app doesnt highlight the relevant terms 
when customers are making payments.
 
As Mr P didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision 
setting out what I thought. Ive set out those findings below and they form part of this 
decision. 
Provisional Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account say:
Where you have set out a future date the payment will be processed on the date specified
which must be a Business Day. Payment instructions received after the Cut-Off Time or on a
non-Business Day will be processed on the next Business Day.
Mr P set up his payment on a Friday, selected it to be paid on Saturday  which isnt a
business day under Clydesdales terms  and Clydesdale processed the payment on
Monday. So Im satisfied Mr Ps payment was processed in line with the terms and
conditions of the account.
Mr P says he called Clydesdale twice on the Saturday morning at about 8am and 10am. But
Clydesdales records only show one call at about 10am. Ive listened to this conversation.
During the call, the handler initially says she thinks the payment might still go through that
day, but she also tells Mr P shes going to check. Later in the call, she confirms the payment
will not go ahead that day. But will be processed Monday as future dated payments are only
processed on business days.
Mr P did speak to Clydesdale again later the same day  at about 4:45pm - but this was
about his complaint, rather than his original enquiry about the payment. Clydesdale dont
have a recording of this call but as Im already satisfied the correct information was given in
the call at 10am, I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. So I
find Mr P was given the correct information when he called the bank on the Saturday.
Mr P says his first call to the bank might not be logged because the advisor answered his
question without taking any personal information. But even if Mr P did speak to the bank
twice Saturday morning, any wrong information was corrected within about two hours of the
first call. Mr P says he only received the correct information because he called back a
second time but I dont think that makes a difference to the outcome of his complaint. I say
this because his overall position wouldve been the same whether hed been told the correct
information when he first called at about 8am or 10am  either way the payment wasnt
going to be made until the Monday.
Finally, Mr P is unhappy that this information about future dated payments only being made
on business days isnt highlighted to customers when setting up payments in the app. Both
parties agree that this isnt highlighted in the app and I agree with Mr P that the app could be
clearer on this. But its up to Clydesdale to decide how its app operates and what information
it contains in it  so I find Clydesdales apology and agreeing to pass Mr Ps feedback on this
is appropriate in the circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr P responded to say he had nothing further to add. 
Clydesdale confirmed it had received the provisional decision but didnt add any further 
comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything further to add, I still think the action Clydesdale has already 
taken is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Eleanor RippengaleOmbudsman