DRN-1822202
The complaint
Mr K has complained that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA is holding him liable for 
transactions on a credit account he says isnt his.
What happened
Mr K is disputing two transactions, totalling £546, which were paid for from a PayPal credit 
account in his name. 
He told PayPal he hadnt applied for this account or authorised the two transactions. He said 
PayPal told him the name of a third party who had accessed his account. He confirmed it 
was his ex-wife. He believes she applied fraudulently for the credit account and that hes 
been the victim of identity theft. He asked PayPal to stop chasing him for the debt and to 
remove any adverse information relating to it from his credit file.
PayPal didnt agree this was fraud. It said Mr K already had a PayPal account, which hed 
opened in 2008, and the application for the credit account was made from his main account. 
The application contained his name, address, email address and information about his 
salary and basic expenses. 
PayPal also said Mr K had admitted hed allowed his ex-wife to use his main PayPal 
account. He explained this was how she could make the application. It said hed breached 
the user agreement, which required him to keep his financial and personal information safe 
and secure. And he was liable, therefore, for any activity, carried out by a third party, where 
he had willingly shared his information with them or been had been negligent with his details.
As Mr K didnt agree with PayPals decision, he asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into his complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He didnt think 
that Mr K had authorised the transactions. And he said that, as it was a credit account, 
PayPal couldnt rely on any arguments that hed failed with intent or gross negligence to 
comply with the terms and conditions of the user agreement. He concluded, therefore, that 
PayPal couldnt hold him liable for the debt.
The investigator recommended that PayPal
write off the debt together with any associated charges and interest
remove all information relating to the credit account and the debt from his credit files
refund any payments he made towards the debt together with 8% interest.
He didnt recommend that it pay Mr K any compensation.
Mr K responded to say he wanted compensation for expenses involved in pursuing his 
complaint. 
PayPal didnt accept the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision. It maintains its position that Mr K had clearly breached the terms and conditions of 
the user agreement and the Payment Services Regulations 2017 when he shared his 
PayPal account details with his ex-wife. It says it isnt fair and reasonable to write off the 
debt, especially where the only evidence that the payments are unauthorised comes from 
the customer and it has no means of verifying his version of events.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigators view sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the relevant regulations 
and the evidence. Both Mr K and PayPal have read the investigators view, so I wont repeat 
every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure 
both that Ive read the file, including their responses to the investigators view.  
Mr K says he didnt apply for the credit account and he didnt make the disputed payments. If 
I decide he didnt apply for the credit account, then that, simply, is the end of this dispute. He 
cant be held liable for the disputed payments if there is no contractual relationship between 
them for the credit account. However, even if the evidence shows that its more likely than 
not that he did apply for the account, then I still must consider if he authorised the two 
payments. I cant assume he did just because its his credit account.
So, I will start with whether I think he authorised the two payments, before determining 
whether I think he applied for the credit account.
In short, PayPal is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017).  But PayPal can hold Mr K liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely he authorised them himself.
A payment out of someones account can only be treated as authorised if the payer has 
consented to it. So, the customer must have consented to a payment transaction taking 
place. I will need to consider whether I think Mr K consented to the disputed payments and, 
therefore, whether they were authorised or not.
Additionally, where credit is involved the PSRs make provision for the Consumer Credit Act 
(CCA) 1974 to apply in place of certain sections of the PSRs. These provisions cant be 
excluded by the account terms. The relevant sections of the CCA here involve a credit 
facility. 
Where a credit facility has been used the relevant legislation is Section 83 of the CCA 1974. 
The CCA says that a customer isnt liable for any loss for the use of a credit facility unless 
they (or someone acting as their agent) used the facility. 
In this case a credit facility was used because the disputed payments were made using 
PayPals credit account.
Did Mr K authorise the disputed payments?
Mr K said he didnt make the disputed payments. He said he separated from his ex-wife on 
17 October 2017. PayPal received the application for a credit account on 22 October 2017. 
The two disputed payments were made on 23 and 26 October 2017. He said he didnt even know about the credit account until he checked his credit file in November 2017, and he 
raised a complaint with PayPal immediately.
PayPal has provided evidence which shows there were several transactions on the credit 
account. There were two cancellation requests in his ex-wifes name. Her name was also 
linked to another transaction. And it appears a third partys card has been registered to the 
account. 
Theres no evidence from the merchant on who ordered the goods and so, in the absence of 
such evidence, I can only prefer Mr Ks evidence that the goods were for his ex-wife. Also, I 
dont know how Mr K used his main PayPal account. PayPal hasnt provided any evidence to 
show that hed made false claims in the past.  I cant see any reason why Mr K should make 
a false claim now.
For these reasons, I think its more likely Mr K didnt consent to the disputed payments. 
Ive taken into account PayPals comments that it cant verify whether he and his ex-wife are 
separated. It cant be sure this isnt a ruse between them to get money back. And that an 
uphold would set a huge precedence for PayPal to remove debts based on information 
provided solely by customers. I appreciate the difficult position its in, but I disagree that an 
uphold in this case sets a precedent. In my opinion, there is evidence on which I can base 
my decision and it includes the customers version of events which I have weighed against 
the details and nature of the transactions, and the absence of certain evidence.
I have also considered PayPals comments on the user agreement and the PSRs. However, 
as this is a credit facility, regulated by the CCA, I only need to consider whether Mr K 
authorised the disputed transactions. 
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance that Mr K didnt authorise the disputed 
payments. I think its more likely than not that his ex-wife made the disputed payments 
without his consent. Therefore, it isnt fair for PayPal to ask him to pay the debt on the credit 
account.
the credit account
Mr K says it was his ex-wife who made the application. He says he didnt consent to it and 
knew nothing about it.
Based on the use of the credit account, I think its most likely this is what happened. Theres 
no evidence he used the credit account or benefited from any goods which were paid for 
from this account. He has shared his PayPal account details with his ex-wife, and this was in 
breach of the user agreement for the main account. This doesnt mean there is a contractual 
relationship between them for the credit facility, as he didnt apply for it.  So, I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to hold him liable for it.
Lastly, the investigator didnt think it would be fair to award Mr K any compensation because 
he had shared his details with his ex-wife, giving her access to his main PayPal account. 
Also, he didnt provide any information about the expenses he claimed to have incurred in 
pursing this complaint when asked to do so. I agree with the investigator and wont be asking 
for compensation. I think the investigators recommendations for how to resolve this dispute 
are fair and reasonable ones in the circumstances.
My final decisionMy final decision is that Im upholding this complaint. I am asking PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, 
SCA to: -
stop pursuing Mr K for the debt on the credit account which isnt his
refund any payments which Mr K has made towards the debt together with 8% 
interest on this amount from the time the transactions left the account until they are 
refunded  
remove any adverse information relating to the debt and the credit account from his 
credit files.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2020.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman