DRN-3450406
The complaint
Mr G complained that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr G took out a loan with Savvy as follows: 
loan start datemonthly 
instalmentsloan 
amountinstalment 
amount
11/10/2018 6 £300 £94.70
Mr G said that Savvy should never have given him this loan because if it had looked at his 
finances it would have seen his mounting pay day debts and worsening financial situation. 
Mr G was concerned that Savvy didnt ask to see his payslips or bank statements and felt 
this was irresponsible lending.. 
One of our adjudicators investigated this loan. In brief summary, he thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Gs circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr G for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr G provided, or the information Savvy 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that Savvy shouldve taken steps to verify the 
information Mr G had declared.
this single loan, the amount it was for and the period of time he was borrowing meant 
Mr Gs loan history, on its own, wasnt enough to suggest to Savvy that he mightve 
been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
Overall, our adjudicator felt the loan had been fairly provided and so he didnt uphold Mr Gs 
complaint.
Mr G disagreed with our adjudicators view. Mainly he said he wanted to contest our 
adjudicators view as he didnt feel it could be fair to lend to people with county court 
judgements. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Im sorry Mr G feels that our adjudicator didnt reach a fair outcome. Id like to reassure Mr G 
that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same 
conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this.
Savvy provided Mr G with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr G could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
Theres no set list of checks that Savvy had to do. In general, what constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors including  but 
not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr Gs income and expenditure. 
And, for a first loan, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Gs complaint. 
Ive listened carefully to the call recording that Mr G had with Savvy when he applied for this 
loan and he provided information about his financial situation and answered questions it 
asked him.
Before lending to Mr G, Savvy asked Mr G for information about his financial situation. Savvy 
did its own electronic checks to verify the amount of his monthly pay. It asked him about his 
outgoings, including what he was spending on other loans. Using this information, Savvy 
was able to see what his monthly budget typically looked like. And it worked out what he 
could afford to borrow. 
Savvy also did a credit check which showed Mr G had recently taken out a credit card  
Mr G said this was for a holiday and said hed just paid it off. Savvy also saw that hed been 
over his account limit by a small amount and mentioned this could lead to additional interest 
costs. 
Savvy gathered information that enabled it to work out how much money Mr G would have 
available to spend after paying his normal monthly outgoings  it calculated that his monthly 
surplus was well over £1,000. So it was satisfied that the loan repayments for this loan 
shouldve been comfortably affordable for Mr G.
Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and the information 
Savvy had on record for Mr G, including what Mr G told Savvy, this didnt point to the loan 
being unaffordable for Mr G. Im sorry that Mr G had a problem with debt and that making the repayments on this loan 
turned out to be difficult for him. I accept that in reality Mr Gs actual circumstances might not 
have been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information Savvy 
obtained. 
But wed expect Savvy to decide Mr Gs lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time  in other words, what we would expect Savvy to 
find out from doing proportionate checks at the time of the loan application. 
Ive thought carefully about what I think proportionate checks should have involved when 
Mr G applied to Savvy for this loan. 
As this was the first loan Mr G had taken out with Savvy, Mr G didn't have any track record 
with the lender that shouldve alerted Savvy to any underlying money problems. 
It wasnt an unusually large loan for someone in Mr Gs financial situation. It looks like his 
take home pay was around £1,600. And Mr G was planning to pay the loan back over 
6 months  which, broadly speaking, in Mr Gs circumstances was a reasonably foreseeable 
period of time when he might expect his finances to remain stable. 
I think there were some indications that Mr Gs application to borrow this expensive loan was 
potentially at odds with what he had told Savvy about his financial situation. But I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Savvy to accept what he said at face value and without doing further 
checks to verify what Mr G had said. 
And I dont think it was unreasonable for Savvy to lend  especially as there wasnt anything 
obvious, in the information it had gathered, to suggest Mr G wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. Although Mr G feels strongly that Savvy shouldve done more or 
better checks, I dont think proportionate checks in these circumstances wouldve required 
Savvy to probe any more deeply into Mr Gs finances or ask Mr G to prove what he was 
declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to 
say) about his financial circumstances.
In coming to this decision I've taken into account what Mr G has said about his county court 
judgements (CCJs). Whilst there were two CCJs shown on Savvys credit checks and these 
were serious black marks on his credit file, they dated back more than two years. One of 
them had been satisfied early on in 2017 so it appeared hed made efforts to repay that debt. 
I dont think this credit history wouldve revealed any useful information about Mr Gs current 
financial situation or that it suggested he was currently in financial difficulty. And the defaults 
shown, whilst concerning, werent enough in my view to have prompted a responsible lender 
to have declined this loan application. These also dated back a number of years. I can 
understand why Savvy might reasonably have thought that taking more active steps to repay 
these might not have been a spending priority for Mr G when it looked like they werent a 
pressing financial problem for him and would soon stop being reported on his credit file in 
any event.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or even sometimes an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application that 
otherwise looked affordable. In this case, I dont think that Savvy did anything wrong in 
deciding to lend this loan to Mr G. So I dont uphold his complaint.
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to him. But I hope that setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman