DRN-2182297
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O arent happy with how Santander UK Plc handled an international 
transfer. The transfer was returned which they say caused them to lose £1,824.54.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O asked Santander to transfer £100,000 to an overseas firm in America. They 
hadnt carried out this type of transfer before and relied on what Santander told them. Mr 
and Mrs O say they were asked if they wanted Santander to handle the exchange of the 
funds to local currency as well as the transfer. They said yes as they werent aware of any 
potential difference this could make.
The transfer was returned because the funds had been converted into US Dollars. But the 
overseas account would only accept deposits in Sterling. So before the returned funds 
could be credited to Mr and Mrs Os account, they had to be converted back into Sterling 
by Santander. Because of this and an administration fee, Mr and Mrs O lost £1,824.54.
Mr and Mrs O complained to Santander who felt theyd acted correctly. They said Mr and 
Mrs O had been given the option of having the funds converted before they were sent. 
Or they could be converted by the beneficiary after they were transferred. Santander 
said they werent aware the overseas account would only accept deposits in Sterling. 
They refunded the original £25 transfer fee and offered a further £30 for Mr O 
unnecessarily visiting a branch.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and felt that Santander had acted correctly. He 
said that Santander had carried out the instruction that Mr and Mrs O had given them. So 
he didnt ask Santander to do anything.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree. In summary, they said:
A third party had originally told them to use an intermediary to transfer the funds from 
Santander to the overseas account. This was what Mr and Mrs O originally wanted to 
do.
But Santander insisted theyd transfer the funds via their own intermeidary bank.
This was the first time that Mr and Mrs O had carried out this type of transfer, so 
Santander shouldnt have soley relied on their instruction.
Mr and Mrs O felt that during the call, Santander wanted to change the payment 
instruction rather than carrying out the one that Mr O was asked to complete by the 
third party.
So Mr O had to decide during this call how to carry out the transfer.
Mr and Mrs O feel that had Santander allowed them to use the intermediary or asked 
clearer questions about the transfer, they wouldnt have lost the £1,824.54.
The case then came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 10 August 2020. In it, I said the following:
Its clear that Mr and Mrs O suffered a loss. They originally transferred £100,000 to 
the overseas account. And £98,175.46 was returned. So what I need to consider is 
whether Santander are responsible for this loss.
Santander have provided the call recording during which the transfer was carried out. 
Ive listened to this and noted that:
Mr O confirmed the payment was being sent to an account in the USA. He 
also confirmed that on a previous call, he was told the funds couldnt be 
sent via an intermediary bank and that Santander could only deal with the 
beneficiary.
At one point, Mr O said the Dollar fund. The operator asked Mr O if the funds 
needed to be converted into US Dollars. Mr O replied that Im not doing 
anything, Im just transferring it as Im complying with the application form ... The 
box that has been ticked is a Sterling Transfer, not a Dollar transfer. Mr O then 
added that he was trying to do what hed been told to do, and that Santander 
had thrown him somewhat.
The operator explained that Santander have their own intermediary banks 
when transferring funds overseas. So when they send funds to America, theyll 
send them the quickest and cheapest way for the customer. They also told Mr 
O that intermediary banks in American often charge more fees. But as 
Santander are a global bank, they dont need to use an intermediary.
Mr O thanked the operator for explaining this. And then added that he assumed 
at this stage that the funds are in his account in Sterling, and that Santander will 
pick the intermediary bank best for the transfer that hes doing. Which will begin 
as a Sterling transfer. The operator said Santander can send the funds but its 
up to him when the funds are converted. At this point, they asked Mr O if the 
funds are going to a Sterling account. Mr O replied that hes being asked 
questions that hes not qualified to answer.
He then asked what would be the most expedient and cost-effective way of 
sending the funds. Before the operator could answer, Mr O said that hell 
follow the most logical method of transferring the funds and if Santander could 
do this without the need of an intermediary bank, then hed like them to take 
over the currency conversion.
The operator added that because the funds are being sent in US Dollars, the 
transfer will be quicker. And Mr O agreed to proceed.
Its clear from the call that Mr O originally wanted to just send the funds and wasnt 
thinking about having them converted into US Dollars before they were sent. But after 
listening to what the operator said, he agreed to Santander converting the funds to US 
Dollars before sending them.
During this call Mr O didnt tell Santander the funds had to be transferred in Sterling, or 
that the funds would be returned if they werent. Ive considered the investment 
documentation that Mr and Mrs O have provided. This doesnt say that any incoming 
funds must be transferred in Sterling.
Mr and Mrs O have provided an email from the investment firm. They expressed their 
surprise at the difficulties Mr and Mrs O were having in arranging the transfer via the 
recommended intermediary bank. They said that Santander had send funds to them via 
that method before. I asked Santander for their comments on this. And theyve said that if 
Mr O had asked for the transfer to be completed in Sterling, the funds would have been 
sent to the intermediary Bank with all the details provided.
I also asked Santander for some additional call recordings. Having listened to these, 
its clear that Mr O originally wanted to send the funds in Sterling via the intermediary. 
While Santander havent provided the call in which he was told this wasnt possible, he refers to this during the call in which the transfer was arranged. And the operator 
confirms this was correct.
Mr O originally wanted to transfer the funds in Sterling to the investment firm via the 
intermediary bank. But Santander told him this wasnt possible. Having looked at all 
the information provided, this wasnt correct. Santander have said the funds could 
have been sent in Sterling had Mr O requested this. But this is what he initially asked 
them to do. Im satisfied he only changed his mind because Santander told him they 
could complete the transfer more cost-effectively. And this led to Mr and Mrs O to 
losing £1,824.54. So Im persuaded that Santander should reimburse them for their 
loses.
I also think that as a result of the advice Santander provided, Mr and Mrs O have 
suffered trouble and upset. And to compensate them for this Santander should pay 
them £220 in addition to the £30 already paid.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Since I issued my provisional decision both parties have indicated that they accept 
that decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs O have told us theyre happy with my provisional decision and have no further 
points to make. Santander have said theyve reviewed the case further and they agreed to 
my proposed settlement.  
As both parties have told us that they accept my provisional decision theres no need for me 
to review my findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision my final decision is 
that I uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint against Santander UK Plc.
And to put things right I require Santander to do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs O the £1,824.54 they lost due to the currency conversions.
Pay them 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of their loss until 
payment is made.
Pay a further £220 compensation for the trouble and upset theyre suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2020.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman