DRN-2707394
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that U K Insurance Limited unfairly declined their home insurance 
claim for subsidence damage.
  
What happened
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs M made a claim for subsidence damage to their single storey 
extension. The extension was built in 2007/8.
UKI concluded the extension was suffering from subsidence due to clay shrinkage, caused 
by some nearby trees. However, it declined the claim on the basis that, but for defective 
foundations, the extension wouldnt have subsided. It said the policy excluded damage 
caused by faulty workmanship, design or materials.
UKIs report and declinature, set out the following:
- The extension was built on a concrete foundation seated 0.625m below ground level. 
This appears to be a raft style foundation, built upon made up ground, fill material 
and gravel. 
- The trial hole next to the extension had to be abandoned because it kept collapsing 
below the concrete foundation. Three bore holes were dug around the perimeter of 
the extension, 2m away. Low or intermediate plasticity clay was found from 0.9m 
at borehole 1 and 2, and from 0.6m at borehole 3. Tree roots were found from 
1.5m (oak); 1.6m (sweet chestnut); and 1.3m (pine and conifer).
- The mature oak tree, and other mature trees, were present at the time the extension 
was built. The foundations should be designed to accommodate the moisture 
demand of this vegetation.
- UKI referred to published standards applied by builders of certain new homes. UKI 
said the standards require the foundations to have been taken to 1.75m; and for a 
raft foundation to be founded on compacted layers of granular material, to a depth 
of 0.875m. UKI said it didnt find any evidence of such granular material.
In UKIs correspondence with our service, its also referred to the following sections in the 
British Standard code of practice for foundations (BS8004): shallow foundations; design 
considerations; and effects of vegetation. The code explains there should be adequate 
space between new buildings and trees, or alternatively, the foundations should be 
constructed at depths greater than 0.9m.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He thought it should be upheld. He didnt 
think the standards applied by builders of certain new homes, applied to Mr and Mrs Ms 
extension. He also didnt think UKI had shown how the standards that did apply, hadnt 
been met; or that failure to meet those standards was the cause of the damage.
UKI disagreed with our investigators outcome. However, it noted that Mr and Mrs Ms expert 
had concluded the cause of the damage hadnt been proven to be the trees. Therefore, UKI 
offered to appoint an independent engineer to gain a third opinion.
Mr and Mrs M didnt consider a third opinion necessary. They said whether the cause of the 
damage was the nearby trees was irrelevant. They said BS8004 had been complied with 
and their structural engineers calculations had been approved by building control. Our 
investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ms objection to a third opinion was reasonable.
Because our investigator remained of the view the complaint should be upheld, UKI asked 
for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already been in contact with UKI, and Mr and Mrs M, to explain that I intend to uphold 
the complaint. Ill now formerly set out the reasons why Im upholding it.
Mr and Mrs Ms experts report concludes it hasnt been established beyond doubt that the 
cause of the damage is attributable to effects of trees on clay soil. However, our service 
doesnt require proof beyond doubt. I only need to be persuaded whats likely, on the 
balance of probabilities. 
Its my understanding that an oak tree, 15m away from the property, was thought to be the 
main issue; and its roots, in clay soils, have been found. An alternative cause hasnt been 
put forward. So, on balance, I accept UKIs experts opinion that the subsidence is due to 
clay shrinkage, caused by nearby trees.
In any event, I havent seen that its disputed theres subsidence occurring. So, whether the 
subsidence has been caused by clay shrinkage due to the nearby trees, or by something 
else, the question is still the same, i.e. were the foundations adequately designed and/or 
constructed.
UKI says the foundations werent adequately designed and/or constructed, so it says its 
policy exclusion for faulty workmanship and design applies. UKI based its decision on 
published standards applied by builders of certain new homes.
The policy terms dont stipulate the foundations of the home need to be a certain depth or 
comply with the standards UKI is applying. Theres also no suggestion that the extension 
was subject to these standards when it was built. Therefore, the builder wasnt under an 
obligation to take them into account. Our service doesnt consider it reasonable to apply 
standards or guidelines that didnt apply to the build in question, at the time of its 
construction. 
However, Ive considered the regulations and codes that did apply. The extension was built 
in 2007/8. I understand the 2000 Building Regulations apply. Approved Document A (2004 
edition) sets out that BS 8004:1986 is the relevant code of practice. This is the code UKI 
now seeks to rely on, along with the standards applied by builders of certain new homes.
The code of practice sets out various considerations for foundations. UKI is of the opinion 
that its for Mr and Mrs M to show the build satisfied those considerations. However, our 
approach is that its for UKI to show the design or construction was defective, in view of 
those considerations. Of the codes sections raised by UKI, only section 3.2.8.2 points towards a minimum depth. 
The relevant part reads: Care should be exercised to ensure that there is adequate space 
between new buildings and existing trees or the sites of trees that have been removed. 
Alternatively, special foundations founded at depths greater than 900mm should be 
provided.
Mr and Mrs Ms report explained that the correspondence between the structural engineer 
and the council showed the design of the raft was approved by local building control. The 
report also said the presence of fill material to a depth of 3m below the extension would 
render the recommended foundation depth of 1.75m to be irrelevant.
As I understood it, the trial pit next to the property kept collapsing at 1.6m, so the fill depth is 
unknown to UKI. However, based on this trial pit, I understood the depth was at least 1.6m.
I also understood three boreholes were dug about two metres from the extension, which 
confirmed the presence of clay soils and degree of plasticity, but not the depth of the fill 
beneath the raft foundation. I asked UKI to confirm my understanding.
I also asked UKI to what extent it had determined the make-up of the fill, if the trial hole kept 
collapsing. I noted UKIs expert had said theres no granular bed beneath the raft foundation. 
I asked UKI to explain how it had determined this and what it means, noting Mr and Mrs Ms 
report refers to the likely presence of granular materials in the samples. I also noted the 
code of practice specifically covers raft foundations, but I hadnt seen any reference to 
granular beds. I asked UKI, if it considers the fill to be non-compliant with the code, to 
explain why.
I also asked UKI whether its the fill depth thats important (which I understood to be between 
1.6m and 3m), or the depth of the raft foundation (0.625m). I noted Mr and Mrs Ms experts 
report suggests its the fill depth thats important. I said my understanding, from that report, 
is the roots would need to reach a depth below the fill, to affect the clay soil. 
I also explained I would need to be persuaded the foundations failed to meet the standards 
that applied, and that was the reason for the damage. So, if it could reasonably be argued 
the foundation depth should have been taken to 0.9m (and that requirement isnt satisfied 
by the fill depth), I would need to be satisfied that if the raft foundation had been 
constructed at 0.9m, the damage wouldnt have occurred. 
I explained to UKI that the oak tree roots were found at depths of 1.5m and 1.6m. So, even if 
the raft foundations had been taken to the 0.9m quoted in the code of practice, I understand 
the damage would still likely have occurred. I noted that, in such circumstances, I wouldnt 
consider it reasonable for UKI to rely on its exclusion; given the failure to comply with the 
0.9m depth isnt the cause of the damage.
In response to my questions, UKI said it doesnt have a report that confirms the depth of the 
fill; there wasnt any evidence of granular material from its investigations; and it believed a 
combination of the raft foundation depth and the fill depth was important. 
UKI again referred to the standards applied by builders of certain new homes. UKI said if the 
foundations had been constructed to standards, damage could still occur; but it still expects 
building works to meet regulations and standards. UKI explained it would also refer my 
questions to its appointed expert.
Whilst waiting for UKIs expert to respond to my questions, Mr and Mrs M provided copies of 
the correspondence their expert had referred to in his report. This included the completion 
certificate, which showed the extension was subject to building regulation and control.I sent those documents to UKI. I explained the documents support the raft foundation design 
was compliant with building regulations. I said I understand that Mr and Mrs Ms expert, is of 
the view the documents show the fill was taken to 3m. 
I acknowledged UKI had said, when responding to my questions, that the trial pit showed the 
raft foundation was at 0.625m onto immediate plasticity clay. I said I understood that UKIs 
comment contradicts the fill was taken to 3m, unless the fill itself consists of clay material. 
However, I also noted UKIs response suggested its conclusions, about the fill material, were 
based on two trial pits that didnt collapse; but UKIs report only shows one trial pit next to 
the property, and three boreholes some distance away. I noted that, given their distance 
from the extension, I wasnt persuaded the boreholes could fairly be relied upon to 
determine the fill depth and material below the raft foundation.
I again reiterated that, the standards applied by builders of certain new homes, dont apply to 
the extension; and UKI needs to show why the foundation depth and/or fill werent compliant 
with the building regulations that applied at the time. 
I noted the only depth mentioned in the regulations and code that did apply, is 0.9m. Even if 
the depth of the fill didnt satisfy that 0.9m requirement, UKI still needs to show a causal link 
between the non-compliance and the subsidence. Here, the offending tree roots have been 
found at a depth well below 0.9m. Therefore, on balance, its likely the subsidence would 
have occurred anyway. I reiterated that, in such circumstances, I dont consider UKI can 
fairly rely on its faulty workmanship and design exclusion.
I noted that my comments and questions were first provided to UKI on 30 July 2021. I gave a 
final deadline of 4 October 2021, for its appointed expert to respond. I explained that unless 
a response was received by 4 October, and unless the response changed my opinion, then 
my final decision would be issued upholding the complaint.
UKI forwarded an email from its appointed expert. The email explained that, on reviewing the 
site notes, there was a lot of fill material and gravel beneath the slabs where they were lifted 
for the trial hole, and this was falling back into the attempts at a borehole. So, the borehole 
was carried out 2m away. The email also explained that its not known whether theres fill 
beneath the raft or not. UKI said it would send some photos of the trial pit, but it couldnt 
confirm when these would be received.
I see no reason to wait for the photos. Ive asked specific questions, and they either havent 
been answered, or they have been answered in a way that doesnt support UKIs position.
As per this services approach, Im not persuaded UKI can fairly apply the standards applied 
by builders of certain new homes. UKI is relying on BS 8004:1986, and that code of practice 
did apply. Based on the sections UKI has pointed towards, theres a question of whether the 
foundations should have been taken to 0.9m. However, based on the information available, 
damage would have likely still occurred due to the depth of the oak tree roots, or the 0.9m 
was likely satisfied by the combined depth of the raft foundation and the fill. 
UKI hasnt shown the raft foundation and/or the fill werent compliant with the regulations or 
codes that applied at the time of the build, to the build; or that such non-compliance is the 
reason for the subsidence damage. As such, Im not persuaded it can fairly or reasonably 
decline the claim, based on its faulty workmanship and/or design exclusion. As previously explained to UKI, Im persuaded it should now settle the claim subject to the 
remaining policy terms; reimburse Mr and Mrs M the costs they have incurred so far; and 
compensate them £500 for the delays and worry caused by its claim decision.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. My final decision is U K Insurance Limited 
should:
- investigate whether further remedial action and repairs are needed, beyond the tree 
removal it recommenced to Mr and Mrs M and the superstructure repairs they have 
so far completed;
- settle the subsidence claim subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions, 
including the amounts Mr and Mrs M have so far paid for tree removal and some 
superstructure repairs;
- cover any superstructure repairs that need re-doing, following other repairs;
- reimburse Mr and Mrs M the cost of their independent report;
- pay 8% simple interest1 per annum on the works it settles that Mr and Mrs M have 
already paid for, and on their independent report, from the date they paid these 
costs, to the date of settlement; and
- compensate Mr and Mrs M £500 for the delays and worry caused by its claim 
decision (this is in addition to the £125 it paid, for a separate matter)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman
1If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from any interest paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. If requested, UKI should 
also provide them with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so they can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.