DRN-2848099
The complaint
Mr C complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr C took out two Lending Stream loans as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest*
Repayment
123/02/2018 Outstanding 6 £390.00 £177.84
225/04/2018 Outstanding 6 £370.00 £292.07
*including combined repayments when loans overlap
Mr C said (in summary) that Lending Stream had failed to verify his income and expenditure 
which may have resulted in the wrong information being relied on when working out if the 
loan was affordable. And he doesnt feel that reasonable and proportionate checks were 
done that were borrower focused as they should have been in line with regulatory 
requirements.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr C and Lending Stream told us about these loans.  
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Cs circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Lending Stream to ask Mr C for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Lending Stream had any information which shouldve prompted it 
to check what Mr C had said in his loan applications. Or that the number of loans Mr C had 
taken out, the amounts hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from 
Lending Stream shouldve alerted Lending Stream to think he was having money problems. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. He sent us a copy of credit information he had recently obtained which he felt 
showed clear indications that when he took out both these loans he was becoming reliant on 
finance and that he had a record of late payments before each loan and also delinquent 
accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. After looking at the complaint afresh, Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
Lending Stream provided Mr C with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr C before providing it. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
I do appreciate that Mr C feels strongly that Lending Stream shouldve realised he couldnt 
afford further loans. 
Lending Stream told us it agreed to Mr Cs applications after carrying out affordability checks 
and it relied on information Mr C provided about his monthly income and expenditure and the 
results of credit checks it carried out.  
Keeping in mind everything that Mr C and Lending Stream have said, I've looked at each 
loan in turn. 
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Lending Stream I think Lending Stream was broadly entitled to 
rely on the information Mr C provided. 
From what I can see, Mr C declared his income as £1700 and told Lending Stream that his 
regular monthly expenditure was £492. It appears that he hadnt mentioned any spending on 
credit but after carrying out credit checks Lending Stream allowed for Mr C having credit 
expenses of £347. 
After doing this, it still looked like Mr C should have around £861 disposable income  so he 
should have had ample disposable income left over to cover the cost of the monthly 
repayments on this loan.
At this early stage, Mr C didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. 
Ive seen a summary of Lending Streams credit checks for this loan. And I cant see that the 
results of Lending Streams credit checks identified any matters that wouldve been of 
particular concern to a responsible lender. 
Bearing in mind that applicants for credit of this type often have other lending and sometimes 
an impaired credit record I dont think Lending Stream gathered any information that makes 
me think it shouldve either been prompted to do more checks before lending or take steps to 
verify what Mr C had said about his financial situation. I've taken into account the credit information that Mr C has supplied, including the account 
report provided in response to our adjudicators view. This information doesnt seem to be 
reflected on the credit checks that Lending Stream recorded. But a lender might only see a 
small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised or not 
up to date. I also understand that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same 
credit reference agencies. So a lenders credit check might not show all the information 
someone could see (or expect to see) on their own credit file and not all information that 
appears on later checks would necessarily have been available at the time.
So this is why Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about loan 1. 
loan 2
Ive taken into account that Mr C took out loan 2 just a couple of months after taking out 
loan 1 and before hed repaid his first loan. He borrowed a similar amount again. But I dont 
think Lending Stream wouldve had any reason to think that this loan wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr C  even allowing for the fact that hed now be paying for two 
loans.
Mr Cs declared income had gone up to £1900 and it appears he told Lending Stream that 
his monthly costs were £1,000  which included an amount of £325 on other credit 
commitments. I think those figures wouldve looked reasonable to Lending Stream based on 
the information it had gathered. 
As Lending Stream worked out that Mr Cs disposable income would be around £900 I think 
its fair to say that Lending Stream was reasonably entitled to think that loan 2 would be 
sustainably affordable for Mr C  even on top of paying for loan 1. 
Although he later had payment problems, when he took out loan 2 Mr C hadnt shown any 
signs that hed found it hard to pay for loan 1. And the figures hed declared when he applied 
for this loan, and the information Lending Stream had collected, seem to support Lending 
Streams lending decision.
I think that Lending Stream gave Mr C fair opportunity to provide relevant information about 
his spending  and if he didnt mention all his other credit spending or the fact that he was 
struggling financially at the time I dont think its reasonable to expect Lending Stream to 
have known this. The credit checks it carried out didnt reveal anything that shouldve 
prompted Lending Stream to probe more deeply into Mr Cs reasons for borrowing or take 
steps to verify what he was saying. I cant fairly say that its checks werent borrower 
focussed. And its lending decision doesnt seem unreasonable to me looking at the 
information Lending Stream relied on when deciding whether to provide this loan. So Im not 
upholding the complaint about loan 2.  
Im very sorry that Mr C has found repaying his borrowing difficult. Possibly his actual 
financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the other 
information Lending Stream obtained. But, in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able 
to say a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr C. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr C but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
I take this opportunity to remind Lending Stream (or any third party) that it should discuss 
payment options with Mr C and treat him fairly and sympathetically if he still needs further 
time to pay any outstanding balances. And if Mr C would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman