DRN-1834519
The complaint
Mr I and Mrs L complain about the way AWP P&C SA has handled a medical expenses 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr I and Mrs L were on a long-distance cycling trip. While they were abroad, Mr I suffered 
from pain in his knee. So Mr I and Mrs L got in touch with AWPs medical assistance team to 
make a claim.
The treating hospital Mr I and Mrs L were initially referred to wasnt suitable, so they had to 
move to a city. Mr I underwent an MRI scan to find out what was causing the issue. Based 
on the findings of the report, AWPs Chief Medical Officer (CMO) recommended that Mr I 
should be repatriated back to his home country.
Mr I and Mrs L werent happy about being repatriated. They didnt think it was necessary. 
But they agreed to AWPs recommendations. And they were ultimately flown back to their 
home country a few days later. 
However, Mr I and Mrs L were unhappy with the service theyd received from the assistance 
team. They said theyd been given instructions in another language which they couldnt 
understand; theyd had to visit the larger hospital theyd been referred to unnecessarily 
twice; theyd had issues with their hotel being extended and paid for; following the 
repatriation, their policy had ended, meaning they werent insured to resume their trip; and it 
hadnt been necessary for Mr I to be repatriated. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought AWPs policy terms made it clear that it was reasonably entitled to 
repatriate policyholders. And she also thought the policy made it clear that policy cover 
would end once a policyholder had returned to their home country. But she didnt think AWP 
had handled Mr I and Mrs Ls claim fairly. She thought itd left them vulnerable and they 
hadnt got the support they needed. So she recommended that AWP should pay them 
compensation of £400 to recognise their distress and inconvenience.
AWP disagreed. It accepted thered been delays in its assistance teams handling of the 
claim. But it felt £200 would be a fairer award for compensation. It said Mr I and Mrs L had 
been in a very remote location and itd made all of its medical decisions with Mr Is safety as 
paramount.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think AWP has treated Mr I and Mrs L fairly. Ill explain why.
Insurers have a duty to handle claims fairly and promptly. So Ive considered the 
circumstances of Mr I and Mrs Ls claim and AWPs policy terms to decide whether I think 
AWP handled the claim in line with its regulatory responsibilities.
It seems Mr I and Mrs L have accepted the investigators findings, including her thoughts on 
AWPs decision to repatriate Mr I and the fact that policy cover ended once theyd been 
repatriated. So I wont consider these points in detail.
I agree with the investigator though that the medical expenses section of the policy states 
that AWP reserves the right to repatriate policyholders if the medical team decides theyre fit 
to travel. In this case, based on the CMOs review of Mr Is MRI, they felt the best course of 
action was to repatriate Mr I in case his condition deteriorated or he needed surgery. AWP 
confirmed Mr I was fit to fly with his treating hospital before he and Mrs L were flown back to 
their home country. So I think it was fair for AWP to arrange Mr Is repatriation, based on the 
medical opinion of its CMO.
And I think the policy sets out when cover starts and ends. It says: All cover ends on your 
return home. As Mr I and Mrs L returned to their home country following their repatriation, I 
think its fair to conclude their policy cover ended at that point.
It seems the main issue for me to decide is what compensation is fair and reasonable for 
AWPs handling of the claim. AWP accepts the assistance team and local agents caused 
delays and didnt handle the claim as they shouldve done. It considers £200 is fair 
compensation for Mr I and Mrs Ls distress and inconvenience.
While Ive only summarised the background to this complaint, Ive read all of the 
submissions in detail, including the assistance teams case notes. I think there were multiple 
service issues in the way it handled Mr I and Mrs Ls claim. I do accept that Mr I and Mrs L 
were in a very remote location, so I understand that AWP might have needed to organise 
medical help in a larger city.
However, it seems that initially, AWP was able to find a clinic in the place Mr I and Mrs L 
were initially staying in. It provided them with details of the hospital, so Mr I could attend it. 
But it provided those details in another language, so Mr I and Mrs L couldnt find the clinic. 
Mrs L got in touch with AWP to ask for the details to be resent in English, but I cant see it 
did so. As a result, Mr I and Mrs L travelled to a bigger city to seek help.
AWP provided Mr I and Mrs L with information about a treating clinic, so Mr I was able to 
undergo an MRI and investigate the cause of his pain. Part of the recommended treatment 
plan was that he needed injections to treat his injury. But on the first two occasions Mr I went 
for treatment, he wasnt able to get it. The first time, the clinic was closed. And on the 
second, while Mr I was escorted to the hospital, instructions hadnt been given for them to be 
accompanied. Mr I couldnt communicate with the hospital staff and they didnt know what 
treatment he needed. So he wasnt able to have the injections hed been told were 
necessary. It seems to me that given Mr I was in pain, ensuring he could receive the 
treatment he needed in a timely way shouldve been a priority for AWP.The notes also show that despite AWP assuring Mr I and Mrs L several times that their hotel 
had been extended and paid for, this wasnt their hotels understanding. The hotel didnt 
recognise the payment method AWP provided. But it seems Mr I and Mrs L were being 
regularly chased for payment and didnt know if they still had somewhere to stay. The notes 
suggest they had no more local money, so on top of Mr Is pain and injury, its likely theyd 
have been very worried about how theyd pay for the hotel if they needed to. Or whether the 
hotel would continue to let them stay. So I think this caused unnecessary further distress at 
an already difficult time.
Its clear that the medical assistance team werent as proactive in contacting Mr I and Mrs L 
as they shouldve been. It appears they had to chase up information several times and some 
emails appear to have gone unanswered too. I dont think AWP took the steps it ought to 
have done to keep Mr I and Mrs L updated or let them know next steps. Again, I think this 
wouldve only added to their upset at Mr Is injury and in feeling unsupported abroad. 
Especially because it seems there were few people where they were staying who were able 
to communicate with them about what was happening.
Overall, while AWP wasnt responsible for Mr Is injury and the inevitable upset this caused, I 
dont think it did all it shouldve done to handle the claim promptly and fairly. I think Mr I was 
likely caused further avoidable upset when he wasnt able to receive the treatment he 
needed and I dont think AWP ensured Mr I and Mrs L were kept updated. In these particular 
circumstances, given the multiple service errors, I agree with the investigator that an award 
of £400 compensation feels fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr I and Mrs Ls 
complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to pay Mr I and Mrs L £400 compensation for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman