DRN-2320752
The complaint
Ms Es complaint is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) used part of the 
compensation from the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to clear the 
arrears on a credit card. 
Ms E says all the compensation due should be paid directly to her as the credit card debt 
formed part of an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) which was competed in 2016.
What happened
Ms E entered into an IVA in 2010 which she completed in 2016.
RBS was party to the IVA as Ms E had fallen behind with payments on her RBS credit card.
Ms E later complained about the sale of PPI on her credit card with account number ending 
5052.
In February 2020 RBS wrote to Ms E stating that it agreed to uphold Ms Es complaint.
In the letter RBS offered Ms E £6,152.87 net of income tax.
Ms E accepted the offer but instead of paying it to her, RBS said it wanted to use the 
compensation to reduce the amount of outstanding debt it said was owed on Ms Es credit 
card.
Ms E believes that as the IVA has been completed, RBS should pay the compensation 
directly to her.
Ms E asked this service to step in.
RBS told us the credit card had an outstanding balance of £4,665.31. RBS said it would use 
the compensation to clear the outstanding balance on the credit card and then pass the 
remainder directly to Ms E in the form of a cheque.
Our adjudicator thought RBS had acted fairly. Ms E disagreed with the adjudicators findings 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Es complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the letter RBS sent to Ms E in February 2020. I can see that on page one it 
mentions the offer of £6,152.87. On page two the letter mentions that if Ms E had been party 
to an IVA the any payment would be made to the relevant account. And on the form which 
Ms E needed to sign to accept the offer it was again stated that if Ms E had been in an IVA 
then any payment will be made to the relevant account. So I think RBS offer made it clear 
that it intended to use the compensation to offset any outstanding debt.
Ms E has told us RBS should not use any of the compensation to clear the credit card 
balance as the credit card debt was part of the IVA which ended in 2016. 
But when Ms E entered into the IVA, the debts she owed werent cancelled. And they 
werent cancelled when she completed the IVA in 2016. Following completion of the IVA     
Ms E  couldnt be chased for the debts. However, the debt she had with RBS still existed and 
some of it related to PPI premiums, which Ms E hadnt paid. 
I think RBS can use the compensation to clear the balance on Ms Es credit card account. In 
effect Ms E owes RBS the outstanding balance on the credit card account, and RBS owes 
Ms E the compensation for the mis-sold PPI. So I think its fair for RBS to set one against the 
other. 
I note RBS has told this service it will send Ms E the remaining compensation directly by 
cheque after it had cleared the outstanding balance of the credit card account.
It is also worth remembering that although PPI premiums were added to Ms Es account, 
shed only have actually paid all the premiums if shed cleared her outstanding balance, 
which she didnt. So if the compensation was paid directly to Ms E shed be getting a refund 
of PPI premiums which she hadnt actually paid. And this wouldnt be fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc can use the compensation for mis-
sold PPI on credit card account ending 5052 to clear the outstanding balance.
If it has not done so already The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay any remaining 
compensation after it has cleared the outstanding amount on the credit card ending 5052 
directly to Ms E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman