DRN-3699367
The complaint
Mr A and Ms M complain that their motor insurer, UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly 
declined their claim for the loss of their motor car. I have just referred to Mr A throughout.
What happened
Mr A owned an expensive car which was stolen in April 2022. He informed the police and 
contacted UKI. He said he has made every attempt to have a dialogue with UKI to resolve 
the claim, but UKI told them its declined as they havent abided by the terms of the policy. 
UKI said it told Mr A the car required a tracker device, but it didnt have one. Mr A said UKI 
told him a tracker was required by the policy, but didnt say what is an acceptable tracker. He 
said he told UKI the car had a pre-installed tracker, and they agreed, and confirmed by letter, 
as long as there is tracker we will provide cover. UKI said if Mr A had clarified his tracker it 
would have said this was insufficient. But Mr A said he specified his was a pre-installed 
tracker and what it could do, and UKI accepted this. He said he answered UKIs questions 
but it didnt inquire about the specifics of the tracker and so he assumed it was sufficient. 
Mr A said once the car was stolen, UKI said the tracker is insufficient, but didnt clarify this 
when the policy started. He said he was assisted on his two calls with UKI in September 
2020 as his English skills are lacking. He said UKI has only provided the first recording, as 
the second call can only be shared with his son, the translator, but this hadnt been provided. 
UKI said the endorsement on Mr As policy states, We will not provide cover for theft or 
attempted theft unless your vehicle has been fitted with an approved, pro-active vehicle 
tracking device. The device must be activated and working efficiently at all times and all 
subscriptions must be paid and up to date. Any driver recognition device for the tracking 
system must be removed from the vehicle when left unattended. A copy of the installation 
certificate must be sent to us when requested.
UKI said on the first call with Mr A on 14 September 2020 its agent read the endorsement 
and said this was required if Mr A wanted the policy. UKI said Mr A told its agent there was 
no tracker with a valid subscription, but he had a manufacturers app where he could see the 
car at all times. UKI said on the second call on 16 September where cover was accepted its 
agent confirmed the need for a tracker. It said Mr As son advised the car already had a 
tracker and the agent confirmed that as long as theres a tracker UKI will provide cover. 
UKI said the manufacturers website refers to the app as Find my car which saves the last 
parked location to guide the owner back to it. UKI said this wasnt a tracker as required by 
the policy. UKI said a trackers purpose is to alert the owner to a possible theft in different 
scenarios and support a successful recovery. UKI said a tracker has functionality to prevent 
it from being disabled. UKI said the car was stolen somewhere between 11pm and 5am and 
a tracker would have alerted Mr A, and this could have aided a successful recovery. 
UKI said at no point on the calls did Mr As son confirm that this is a manufacturers app 
solely for finding a parked car and not a proactive tracker. UKI said if it had known it would 
have told Mr A this wasnt sufficient to fulfil the policy endorsement. It said the onus is on the 
policyholder to ensure that the endorsement is fulfilled, and the car has an appropriate 
tracker. Mr A was unhappy with this response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She listened to the calls 
between Mr A and UKI and said UKIs agent read the policy endorsement about the tracker 
word-for-word. She said Mr A then asked if UKI could fit the tracker and was told it wouldnt, 
but a garage would. The agent explained that when the tracker is fitted Mr A will be issued 
with a certificate which he may be required to provide to UKI. She said UKI was clear about 
the tracker required and Mr As response indicated he didnt think his car had a tracker at all. 
The investigator said on the second call the agent read the endorsement in full again and Mr 
A said his car has a security system whereby he knows its exact location. The agent said the 
tracker would need to be a category 5 tracker. Mr A asked if the system he described would 
be sufficient and the agent said it would if it tracks the car. The investigator thought that UKI 
had treated Mr A fairly in declining the claim.  
Mr A disagreed with the investigator and said UKI hadnt done what was necessary to state 
the tracker it required. He said UKIs agent had put him at ease about the tracker by saying 
if it tracks it is fine. Mr A requested an ombudsman review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr A for the very unpleasant experience he has had through the theft of 
his car and the unwelcome discovery that his insurer has declined his claim.
Mr A says he informed UKI that his car had a tracker installed and UKI said as long as it 
tracks the vehicles location, it is sufficient. He wants UKI to pay the claim. 
Mr A said it is the insurers responsibility to effectively communicate its policies and 
requirements to the policy holders. UKI says that it is the policyholders responsibility to 
ensure that they fulfil the requirements of the policy, in this case the tracker endorsement. I 
agree with both parties, and I have looked carefully at the information provided to Mr A by 
UKI and the communications between them to see if UKI has treated Mr A fairly. 
Most motor insurance policies have endorsements that restrict cover for theft in specified 
circumstances. In Mr As case his policy limits liability for theft where an active tracker device 
is absent from the insured car. The policy endorsement requires Mr A to fit an approved, 
pro-active vehicle tracking device. The endorsement makes further requirements of the 
device. 
The endorsement is very prominent on the policy documentation, and I think its intention is 
clear. It is also clear that the endorsement places responsibility on to Mr A as policyholder to 
ensure the requirement for the tracking device is fulfilled. The endorsement also makes it 
clear that there will not be cover for theft if a tracking device isnt fitted.  
Mr A said UKI should have clarified the type of tracker it required. Weve listened to the calls 
from September 2020 between Mr A and UKI. UKIs agent reads out the endorsement and 
Mr A responds to say theres no tracker fitted to the car. Mr A then asks the insurer to fit the 
tracker, and I think this is an acknowledgement that his car doesnt have a tracker device 
fitted. Mr A seems to change his mind about this by the time of the second call two days 
later, but I dont think that was because of anything UKI had said.On the second call Mr As son says the car has a tracker fitted. But I dont see why he said 
this as all that they held was a Find my car app for their phone. This app and the car 
manufacturers own app claim to use GPS technology to locate where a car has been 
parked, but they dont state that this is a tracking device.   
There are clear differences between a proactive tracker and the app to which Mr A refers. 
The latter will only show the last known location of the car whereas a tracker does, as the 
name suggests, tracks the ongoing movement of the car, to promote its recovery. UKIs 
agent said to Mr A that if he had a proactive tracking device fitted, he would receive a 
certificate from the installer. And he explained that Mr A required a category 5 tracker.
I think that if Mr A was in any doubt about what constituted a proactive tracking device an 
internet search or a call to his cars manufacturer would have answered any questions. 
There is instantly available information about category 5 trackers including that they provide 
the highest level of vehicle security. As the onus was on Mr A to ensure a proactive tracking 
device was fitted, I think this is what he should have done to ensure his car was covered for 
theft.
The purpose of the policy endorsement is to protect the insured risk of Mr As car to UKI. 
The endorsement states that UKI wont cover the car for theft if Mr A doesnt have a tracker 
device. And so I think that UKI has declined Mr As claim in accordance with the relevant 
endorsement in his policy. I realise this decision will greatly disappoint Mr A, but I think UKI 
has treated him fairly in declining his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman