DRN-3446357
The complaint
Mrs K complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) provided a poor service and gave 
incorrect information which delayed her receiving pension payments from her pension plan. 
What happened
Mrs K held a pension plan with ReAssure. This had a guaranteed pension relating to the 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). To benefit from the guarantee, Mrs K would need to 
buy an annuity through ReAssure. Mrs K started this plan in September 1987. 
In July 2019, Mrs K contacted ReAssure to start the process of taking her pension benefits. 
She said she wanted to use the benefits to pay off her mortgage. ReAssure provided a quote 
as at 6 September 2019 which showed Mrs Ks pension had a transfer value of £47,922.76. 
This could be used to provide an estimated annual income of £4,160 based on the 
guarantee. Or a smaller annual income and a tax-free lump sum of £6,670.54.
In October 2019, Mrs K called ReAssure to ask them if she needed an Independent 
Financial Adviser (IFA) to provide advice on her transfer. Due to the value of the pension, 
ReAssure told Mrs K that she would. Mrs K also asked ReAssure some questions about her 
pension options, which they answered. Mrs K found an IFA in November 2019. He asked 
ReAssure to provide specific information about her pension benefits at that time. ReAssure 
issued further retirement information in November 2019. This gave pension values from age 
75. And said the transfer value was £48,873.87. 
On 17 December 2019, Mrs K called ReAssure as she wanted to know if there was a time 
limit to taking options. ReAssure confirmed the policy would defer if she didnt take them at 
her 60th birthday. The call records stated that shed said she was in the process of taking 
financial advice.  
On 19 December 2019 Mrs Ks IFA called ReAssure to query the maturity date on the plan 
and Mrs Ks options. The call record stated the ReAssure confirmed these. He also asked for 
a hard copy of Mrs Ks options. ReAssure forwarded the 6 September 2019 retirement pack 
theyd previously issued to Mrs K to her IFA the same day. 
Mrs Ks adviser initially advised her to transfer her pension to a collective retirement account 
as this would provide access to drawdown. Mrs K submitted a completed transfer application 
to ReAssure on 22 January 2020.
The call records stated that Mrs K called ReAssure again on 3 March 2020 to check the 
value of her plan. This was confirmed as £49,244 28. She also asked if the value was 
guaranteed. And was told that it wasnt.
Mrs K said that as shed heard nothing from ReAssure on her transfer, she called them 
again on 10 March 2020 for an update. ReAssure told her that theyd rejected the application 
as it needed to be submitted manually on paper forms. Mrs Ks IFA followed up with 
ReAssure to ask why they hadnt been told before. And Mrs K called again on 12 March 
2020 to complain about the progress of her transfer. She didnt think that ReAssure had 
accepted that shed taken financial advice. And she was unhappy that no one had told her 
this. The call record stated that Mrs K told ReAssure that she needed the money by the end 
of March to pay off her mortgage. 
ReAssure issued their final response to Mrs Ks complaint about delays to her transfer on 17 
March 2020. They didnt uphold her complaint. They said theyd been unable to identify any 
errors. 
On 27 March 2020, Mrs Ks IFA called ReAssure to ask if her annuity could be backdated to 
her 60th birthday. ReAssure confirmed that they werent able to do this. The IFA also asked 
ReAssure to confirm if a spousal benefit was available if Mrs K took the annuity with 
guarantees options. The IFA called ReAssure again on 30 March 2020. The call records 
stated that ReAssure explained Mrs Ks options, including the figures.  And explained that as 
she had funds in excess of the full annuity, she could use some of those funds to change the 
basis of that annuity if she wanted. At this point the IFA told ReAssure theyd sent conflicting 
information about when and how the policy could be taken. He again asked if the pension 
could be backdated to Mrs Ks 60th birthday. The IFA told ReAssure that hed been given a 
document in November 2019 which said that the policy would be payable from age 75. But 
also said that hed had information that the pension could be taken from age 60. He said this 
had caused delays. So he made a complaint on Mrs Ks behalf. 
ReAssure wrote to Mrs Ks IFA on 27 March 2020 after the call of the same day about the 
retirement options pack issued on 12 March 2020. They confirmed that if an annuity were 
taken, the guaranteed pension would be based on single life, level, paid monthly in advance 
with a five-year guarantee. They said this could only be changed if some of the excess 
amount were used. 
On 30 March 2020 ReAssure called Mrs Ks IFA. They told him the pension was guaranteed 
for five years. He then complained that the information hed seen on the retirement 
paperwork hadnt been clear about this. And that if hed known about the five-year guarantee 
he wouldve advised Mrs K to take an annuity instead of transferring the pension into 
drawdown. He felt the lack of clarity had led to significant delays in the process.
On 2 April 2020, Mrs K called ReAssure to ask for an annuity quotation. And on 3 April 2020, 
Mrs K asked to take her retirement benefits. She was given a quote. As shed not received 
all the information she needed, Mrs K chased ReAssure on 15 April 2020. They emailed the 
quotation to Mrs K the same day. Mrs K returned her completed form requesting the 
guaranteed pension.
On 9 April 2020 Mrs Ks IFA asked ReAssure if they would backdate her retirement benefits 
to her 60th birthday. ReAssure said that wasnt possible as they hadnt caused any delays 
before her 60th birthday. 
ReAssure said they received the completed guaranteed pension forms on 16 April 2020. But 
that due to an internal delay, Mrs Ks application wasnt processed as quickly as it shouldve 
been. It was processed in May 2020. But the annuity was calculated as at 16 April 2020 
when the completed forms had been received. And payment was backdated to then. Mrs Ks 
pension had a total value of £49,487.27 at this date. £43,151.71 of this would provide an 
annual income of £3,607.44. The remainder - £6,335.56  was paid as a tax-free lump sum. 
Mrs Ks IFA raised a complaint on her behalf regarding the initial advice to transfer that hed 
given her. He also made a complaint on his own behalf for the additional work hed had to do 
because of ReAssures errors. He felt that ReAssures retirement pack hadnt provided clear 
information about the attached death benefits and this meant hed provided advice based on 
incorrect assumptions.ReAssure issued their final response to this part of the complaint on 21 May 2020. They 
acknowledged that theyd caused some delays to the process. They explained why the 
amount to secure the pension had increased from that previously quoted. They offered £75 
for the delays in processing the annuity application and failed call backs. 
Although Mrs Ks tax-free cash lump sum was paid as expected, no annuity payments had 
been processed. So Mrs K called ReAssure. They told her an administrative error had 
caused delays to the set up. They arranged to resolve the issues. 
ReAssure issued another final response on this complaint on 29 June 2020. They offered an 
additional £75 compensation as a result of the further delay. 
On 3 July 2020, Mrs Ks IFA called ReAssure to tell them that while Mrs K would possibly 
accept £150 compensation for the inconvenience the delays had caused, she wouldnt 
accept it as redress for her financial losses. He gave some information about the losses she 
felt shed incurred due to the delays. 
On 7 July 2020 Mrs Ks IFA suggested what she felt would be fair compensation to 
ReAssure. Shed suggested a reasonable payment would be £1,769.92. This was broken 
down as follows:
£150 for stress and inconvenience.
An amount in respect of the savings she wouldve made on her mortgage if the tax-
free cash had been £6,670  the amount detailed in the 6 September 2019 
retirement pack. 
The difference between the tax-free cash paid and that shed expected.
The value of the five annuity payments shed missed.
On 10 July 2020 Mrs Ks IFA called ReAssure to discuss the complaint. He said he didnt 
think the information he needed had been clarified until March 2020. Mrs Ks IFA referred to 
a letter ReAssure had sent to Mrs K on 10 March 2020 about transferring out her pension. 
He said that the features of the guarantee had said that no further benefits would be payable 
on an estimated annuity on death. But that the quote dated 6 September 2019 had included 
a five-year guarantee period. ReAssure confirmed that the document had explained how 
GMP that accrued before 1988 was paid, not the final retirement benefits.
On 13 July 2020, Mrs Ks IFA confirmed to ReAssure that hed based his advice to Mrs K on 
their letter of 6 September 2019. He said that this letter had said that only the excess over 
GMP would have a five-year guarantee. He said that as Mrs K had wanted to take the 
excess over GMP as tax-free cash, it had meant that the annuity paid would purely be GMP 
which would therefore have no guarantee period. He said that Mrs K hadnt wanted this. The 
IFA said that ReAssure had then confirmed on 27 March 2020 that they would include a five-
year guarantee on the guaranteed pension. So he said hed then changed his advice to Mrs 
K and recommended that she took an annuity with ReAssure. He said that at this point Mrs 
K had raised a complaint against him for the time spent sorting out a transfer between 
December 2019 and March 2020.
ReAssure issued a final response to Mrs Ks IFAs complaints on 22 July 2020. They 
addressed Mrs Ks continued unhappiness that they wouldnt backdate her tax-free cash and 
annuity to her 60th birthday. They acknowledged that some of the information in their letter of 
18 November 2019 was wrong as it was possible to take GMP from age 60. But that theyd 
corrected this incorrect information by the time the IFA had received a copy of the 6 September 2019 retirement pack in December 2019, as this had confirmed the benefits 
available to Mrs K at age 60. 
Mrs Ks IFA raised further points with ReAssure on 24 July 2020.  He didnt agree that the 
September 2019 retirement pack had mentioned a five-year guarantee when detailing death 
benefits. He said the document was very confusing and shouldve been clearer. He said it 
would be unreasonable to expect him to provide advice to Mrs K based on that information. 
He felt that ReAssure hadnt answered his calls, which had delayed the resolution of the 
complaint. He also asked them to explain their failure to respond to both him and Mrs K 
within reasonable timescales. 
ReAssure issued their final response to those points on 27 July 2020. They said the IFA 
hadnt contacted them to ask any questions until the end of March 2020, despite having 
received the September 2019 retirement pack in December 2019. They apologised that the 
IFAs calls of 23 April, 30 April and 13 May 2020 hadnt been answered. But said that when 
hed spoken to them on 20 May 2020, their position on the backdating of benefits - which 
theyd confirmed in March and April 2020 - hadnt changed. 
Mrs Ks IFA didnt agree with ReAssure. He made further points on 26 August 2020. He still 
felt that the documentation that had been issued to Mrs K was unclear. He made a further 
call to ReAssure on 3 September 2020. ReAssure agreed to review their retirement pack 
dated 6 September 2019. And to ask their communications area for their opinion. 
ReAssure issued their last final response letter on 11 September 2020 as Mrs K remained 
unhappy with the redress offered. They didnt uphold the complaint. They said they hadnt 
backdated Mrs Ks annuity as her application wasnt received until 16 April 2020. They 
explained that although the five-year guarantee theyd provided on the pension wasnt a 
regulatory requirement, it had been costed based on a standard actuarial formula with 
ReAssure's best estimate annuity pricing assumptions. They said the cost of providing the 
five-year guarantee period was very low, with less than a 0.5% difference between the with 
and without five-year guarantee. They also said that they hadnt caused the delay from 20 
December 2019 to 11 March 2020. 
Mrs K was unhappy with ReAssures response to her complaint. So she brought it to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that 
ReAssure had caused delays to Mrs Ks application to transfer after she submitted it in 
January 2020. But she felt that the £150 offered was fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances.  As Mrs K hadnt actually transferred her pension, she didnt feel that 
ReAssure should be held responsible for any financial loss. 
Mrs K didnt agree with our investigator. She made the following points:
Her IFA hadnt been able to get the information hed needed to clarify her options 
from ReAssure.
The information in the retirement pack was very unclear.
The helpline wasnt answered, or it was answered and promised call backs werent 
made.
She said that shed missed the deadline for dating her chosen pension back to her 
60th birthday due to the lack of clarity of the information provided. She felt that if 
ReAssure had responded sooner and provided the correct information she wouldve 
been able to request her pension before the cut-off date for backdating it. She felt 
she was due her pension on her 60th birthday and it shouldve been paid back to that date. 
She said that her pension pot had also decreased due to the impact of the 
coronavirus pandemic which wouldnt have been the case in January 2020.
Mrs Ks IFA also made some further points to our investigator about her complaint. 
He felt the main issues were:
The unclear information provided regarding death benefits.
ReAssures response timescales.
He said hed asked for details of death benefits in his original information request. But that 
ReAssure had originally responded that he should contact them if he needed those details. 
He said this failure to provide the information caused delays. He also provided a detailed 
breakdown of the 6 September 2019 retirement pack, explaining he felt it was unclear.  Mrs 
Ks IFA also provided detailed notes of the calls hed had with ReAssure on and after 27 
March 2020. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for review.
Our investigator said in her view that she couldnt comment on Mrs Ks IFAs claim for 
compensation as he wasnt an eligible complainant in this case. This is also true for this 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ks position is that if ReAssure had provided clear information, she couldve made an 
informed decision to take her pension benefits on her 60th birthday. She said that ReAssure 
had provided misleading information which resulted in a delay to her taking her benefits. So 
she feels that she should be reimbursed for the annuity payments she couldve received. 
And for the additional interest shes had to pay on her mortgage.
ReAssure have offered a total of £150 compensation for the poor service they gave Mrs K at 
two points in the process. But they dont agree that they provided unclear information. And 
they dont agree that they should backdate the pension to Mrs Ks 60th birthday or 
compensate her for mortgage interest.
In order to make my decision, I first considered whether the information ReAssure provided 
was suitable for the IFA to base his advice on. 
Information provided
Mrs Ks IFA said that the 6 September 2019 pack lacked clarity. 
In particular, he felt that the information hed seen on the retirement paperwork hadnt been 
clear that the pension would be guaranteed for five years. He said that if hed known about 
the five-year guarantee he wouldve advised Mrs K to take an annuity instead of transferring 
the pension into drawdown. Ive carefully reviewed the retirement pack in question. I agree it is complicated and couldve 
been clearer in places. But I agree with our investigator that either the information required is 
in the pack, or it couldve been obtained by asking ReAssure for further information. 
ReAssure couldve answered questions regarding the death benefits in December 2019. 
Instead, they werent asked for this clarification until March 2020, AFTER the IFA had 
provided his initial advice. 
Both Mrs K and her IFA have told this service that ReAssure regularly failed to answer the 
phone or call them back when theyd promised to. But Ive seen ReAssures records, and 
although they show that there were a number of times in October and December 2019 when 
information was requested and provided, Ive seen no records from January or February 
2020 of information requests from either Mrs K or her IFA. The first record highlighting that 
Mrs K was considering a different option to transferring her pension is dated 27 March 2020. 
Our investigator asked Mrs K to provide any evidence of calls made outside of these times 
but none were provided. So Ive no evidence that Mrs Ks IFA tried to clarify the information 
hed received before advising Mrs K on her options. Therefore I cant hold ReAssure 
responsible for not providing the required clarification until 27 March 2020. 
Although Ive concluded that Mrs Ks IFA couldve accessed the clarification he needed 
before the end of March 2020, Ive further considered the issues he raised with the 
paperwork that was sent to Mrs K and shared with him. Ive done this to ensure Ive 
considered the complaint fully. 
Mrs Ks IFA said he needed clarity on what the death benefits would be after Mrs K had 
taken the pension option. He also seemed to think that ReAssure wouldnt allow benefits to 
be taken from the pension policy before Mrs K had reached age 75. He said this had led him 
to advise Mrs K to transfer her pension to another provider as shed wanted to access cash 
to pay off her mortgage, so was looking for a lump sum at age 60. 
ReAssure told the IFA that the only reason some of the paperwork had referred to age 75 
was because the retirement date had been deferred to that date after Mrs K had gone past 
her 60th birthday without taking her benefits. They said that their 6 September 2019 
retirement pack had explained this. They also said that they couldnt find anywhere in their 
paperwork where theyd said that they would restrict benefits until then. 
From what Ive seen, the 6 September 2019 paperwork states the following under the Do 
nothing with your pension for now option:
You can stay in your pension until youre 75. Well write to you before your 75th birthday, if 
you havent already taken your pension by then, to remind you of your options If we dont 
hear from you before your 75th birthday well secure your retirement income, but youll need 
to contact us before we can start paying it to you.
So I agree with ReAssure that the September 2019 retirement pack was clear that benefits 
were available up to age 75, and not only from age 75.
ReAssure also asked the IFA why thered been no contact from him between 20 Dec 2019 
and March 2020. He said hed just accepted that the information in the 6 September 2019 
pack was correct. ReAssure felt that the information in the September 2019 pack confirmed 
the current retirement benefits, including what would be payable on death after retirement. 
So they didnt agree that the IFA didnt get clarity on death after retirement benefits until 27 
March 2020. They felt he could have advised Mrs K to submit her annuity application after 
receiving that pack in December 2019. 
The IFA said that hed received a letter from ReAssure dated 10 March 2020 which confirmed that there would be a widowers benefit and that this contradicted their 6 
September 2019 pack. So he asked ReAssure for clarification. ReAssure said that their 6 
September 2019 had confirmed that the guaranteed pension would include a five-year
guarantee. They explained that this was because the non-GMP benefit had stated that it 
included a five-year guarantee. And then the page called Our Assumptions confirmed any 
income above the GMP has been calculated in line with the GMP. So they felt that this 
showed that the guaranteed pension would include a five-year guarantee. ReAssure also 
told Mrs Ks IFA that their letter dated 10 March 2020 wasnt a retirement options letter, but a 
letter to confirm their requirements to transfer out. 
While I agree that the wording on the five-year guarantee couldve been clearer, I consider 
that Mrs Ks IFA couldve asked for clarification on this point earlier than he did. Im also not 
persuaded that this was such a significant point that it shouldve changed the IFAs advice to 
Mrs K. I say this because ReAssure have confirmed that there was less than 0.5% difference 
in value between a pension with no guarantee and a pension with a five-year guarantee. I 
consider that the IFA shouldve been aware that such a guarantee wouldnt affect value 
significantly. Therefore I consider that he shouldnt have allowed his lack of clarity on this 
point to have completely changed his advice.
Based on everything Ive seen, I consider Mrs Ks adviser couldve taken steps to get the 
clarification he needed earlier. But Im also satisfied that the information contained in the 6 
September 2019 pack was sufficient for the IFA to have provided correct advice in the first 
place. Therefore I dont consider that ReAssure did anything wrong here.
I note that ReAssure have acknowledged that part of the information in their letter of 18 
November 2019 was incorrect. They said theyd corrected this error by the time the IFA had 
received a copy of the 6 September 2019 retirement pack in December 2019. As Mrs Ks 
didnt make her transfer request until January 2020, after her IFA had received the 6 
September 2019 letter, Im satisfied that this error shouldnt have impacted the advice she 
was given. 
Ill now consider the delays to the process, to see which delays ReAssure should be held 
responsible for. 
Delays to the process
In October 2019, Mrs K called ReAssure to ask them if she needed an IFA to help her with 
her transfer. The 6 September 2019 retirement pack stated the following, on page 2:
IMPORTANT: If youre considering any retirement option other than taking your guaranteed 
income using ReAssure Ltds retirement offering:
You need to contact your Financial Adviser. The government have made this compulsory 
because this policy has a valuable guarantee. 
I understand that Mrs K found an IFA in November 2019. I consider that the September 2019 
retirement pack clearly stated when an IFA would be needed. So I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable to hold ReAssure responsible for the delay up to November 2019. 
In December 2019, Mrs K called ReAssure to ask if there was a time limit to taking options. 
She was told that the policy would defer if she didnt take the benefits on her 60th birthday. 
The call records said Mrs K was still in the process of taking financial advice at this point. I 
cant hold ReAssure responsible for the delay up to this point as it was outside of their 
control how long the advice Mrs K needed would take. So although Mrs Ks initial request to ReAssure had been made in July 2019, they sent the 
retirement pack out in September 2019 (10 weeks before retirement, as was their policy). 
But more than three months later Mrs K was still calling ReAssure to ask questions. And still 
hadnt finalised her decision on how she would take her pension. 
Mrs K submitted a completed transfer application to Reassure on 22 January 2020. So while 
Im not clear on exactly when her IFA advised her to transfer, it mustve been on or before 
this date. Mrs Ks adviser received the 6 September 2019 retirement pack from ReAssure on 
20 December 2019, so Im satisfied that he had access to the information he needed  either 
in the pack or by calling ReAssure to request additional clarification  soon after that point. 
Therefore I consider that Mrs Ks adviser had enough time to ensure hed understood the 
options before he advised her to transfer her pension. 
Therefore Ive found no evidence of any delays caused by ReAssure before 22 January 
2020. 
Mrs K chased ReAssure on her transfer on 10 March 2020. At this point she was told that 
her application to transfer had been rejected. Im satisfied that ReAssure shouldve told Mrs 
K that theyd rejected her application without her chasing them. So I consider that they are 
responsible for a delay here. ReAssure acknowledged that they didnt tell Mrs K that the 
transfer paperwork shed submitted in January 2020 wasnt correct until she called them to 
chase them in March 2020. And offered £75 in compensation for the delay.
From what Ive seen, following updated advice from her IFA, Mrs K first told ReAssure that 
she wanted to take the guaranteed pension and tax-free cash option on 3 April 2020. This 
was almost five months after shed reached her 60th birthday. And more than three months 
since Mrs Ks IFA had received the information I consider he wouldve needed in order to 
advise Mrs K on the best option for her. Therefore, although I acknowledge that ReAssure 
wouldve caused considerable delay to the transfer process if Mrs K had continued with it, as 
they hadnt told her that her application form was incorrect until she chased them, she 
changed her mind. As she didnt complete the transfer process, I cant consider any financial 
loss shed incurred because the transfer was later than shed wanted. But I can consider if 
the delay in telling her that her application was incorrect caused delays to the pension being 
set up. 
Based on the evidence, I consider that Mrs Ks adviser had sufficient information  or the 
means to get any additional information that he needed in order to advise Mrs K  before 22 
January 2022. If he had advised her to take the guaranteed pension and tax-free cash option 
at this point, Im satisfied that it wouldve been processed before the end of March 2020, in 
accordance with Mrs Ks request. I say this because once Mrs K had requested the pension 
and tax-free cash option, ReAssure processed it in around six weeks. 
ReAssure did cause a further delay in the processing of Mrs Ks pension request. They 
acknowledged that an internal mistake led to a delay in setting up the annuity. They resolved 
this by calculating the payment and backdating it to the date it shouldve been paid. And 
offered £75 compensation for this delay. I consider that this was a fair and reasonable way 
to correct the delay, as Im satisfied it meant Mrs K hadnt suffered financially from the 
mistake.
Overall, I consider that although ReAssure did cause two delays, they offered appropriate 
compensation, as detailed above.
Other points to the complaint
Mrs K told this service that her pension pot had decreased due to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. She said this wouldnt have happened if shed been able to take her 
pension benefits in January 2020.
As Ive explained, I dont consider the ReAssure are fully responsible for the delayed 
payment of Mrs Ks pension benefits. But Ive looked at the transfer value quoted in the 6 
September 2019 retirement pack and compared it to the value Mrs Ks eventual benefits 
were based on. 
Mrs Ks pension had a total value of £49,487.27 on 16 April 2020, the date the retirement 
benefits were based on. It would provide an annual income of £3,607.44, plus £6,335.56 as 
a tax-free lump sum. The 6 September 2019 retirement pack showed a transfer value of 
£47,922.76 at that date. The pack said this would provide an estimated annual income of 
£3,502.44 based on the guarantee, plus a tax-free lump sum of £6,670.54. 
These figures show that the value of Mrs Ks pension actually increased between the 
September 2019 quote and the April 2020 payment. The tax-free cash figure was slightly 
lower though. ReAssure told Mrs K that the amount to secure her guaranteed pension had 
increased from that previously quoted. And that this had led to a reduced tax-free lump sum 
payment. But an increased annual pension. So Ive no evidence that ReAssure did anything 
wrong here.
From what Ive seen, the 6 September 2019 pack did contain enough relevant information 
for Mrs Ks IFA to have provided correct advice. The IFA received this pack in December 
2019, but didnt seek clarification on the contents until March 2020. This is despite having 
advised Mrs K to transfer her pension to another provider no later than January 2020. Mrs K 
didnt tell ReAssure she now wanted to take a guaranteed pension and tax-free cash until 3 
April 2020  almost five months after her 60th birthday. As this was outside ReAssures 
backdating period, they couldnt backdate her pension to her birthday. As I dont consider 
that ReAssure are responsible for the length of time it took for Mrs K to decide she wanted to 
take a pension and tax-free cash, rather than transfer, Im satisfied that it was fair for 
ReAssure to decline her request to backdate her pension.  
As Mrs K didnt proceed with her initial transfer request, Im also satisfied that ReAssure are 
not responsible for additional mortgage interest that Mrs K said shed paid. I say this 
because Mrs K only requested the pension and tax-free cash option on 3 April 2020. And 
that her request was processed on, and backdated to, 16 April 2020. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded that ReAssures actions, or poor service, caused Mrs K a financial loss. 
I acknowledge that ReAssure provided poor service at three points in the process. They 
made an error in the November 2019 paperwork. They didnt tell Mrs K that the transfer 
paperwork shed submitted in January 2020 wasnt correct until she called them to chase 
them in March 2020. And they admitted that an internal mistake had led to a delay in setting 
up the annuity. They resolved this by calculating the payment and backdating it to the date it 
shouldve been paid. And they offered £75 compensation in respect of the inconvenience 
each of the delays had caused Mrs K  a total of £150. As explained above, I consider that 
this was fair under the circumstances. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman