DRN-2078827
The complaint
Mr M complained about the way that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with his claim for 
repairs to his car under his motor insurance policy. He was particularly concerned about the 
delay in settling the bill.
What happened
Mr M accidently damaged his car by filling it with the wrong type of fuel. So he took it to a 
garage to get it repaired.
Originally Mr M was going to sort the matter out himself. But then someone suggested to him 
that he could claim for the repairs on his insurance policy. So he contacted UKI, who agreed 
the work was covered by his policy. 
Mr M had had the car taken to a garage which wasnt in UKIs approved network. But theyd 
already started work, so UKI said they could continue. UKI wrote to Mr M. They said Mr M 
would need to pay his excess to the garage and theyd pay for the rest of the repairs. And he 
could have a courtesy car for up to three weeks while the repairs were done. 
About two weeks later, Mr M contacted UKI because the garage had told him his car had 
been repaired and they were waiting for UKI to pay them. UKI told Mr M the garage hadnt 
told them the car had been repaired or sent them an invoice  so theyd not done anything 
further. And they said that, because the invoice would be for more than £1,000, theyd have 
to pay by cheque.
UKI received an invoice the next day  but not the other paperwork they needed. So they 
said they still couldnt pay. And Mr M still couldnt get his car returned to him.
The position hadnt changed almost a week later, so Mr M made a complaint. UKI looked 
into the matter. They contacted the garage, who told them that they were waiting for Mr M to 
pay his excess  but if he paid that, theyd release his car. UKI passed this onto Mr M.
Mr M went to collect his car. But the garage refused to release it, because theyd not been 
paid in full. Mr M was embarrassed by this. And he was anxious because the three weeks 
car hire was almost up. He called UKI and asked them to pay the garage by BACS  but 
they said they couldnt do this.  
Mr M made a second call to UKI about half an hour later. This time, UKI suggested that he 
pay the garage in full and they would reimburse him.  Mr M did this and the garage released 
his car.  He was reimbursed by UKI a couple of days later.
UKI sent Mr M their response to his complaint. They didnt agree that theyd delayed paying 
the garage - they said theyd paid as soon as theyd had the garages invoice. They also said 
theyd provided updates when there was information to pass onto Mr M.  And theyd told him 
he could collect his car if he paid the excess because thats what the garage had told them. 
It wasnt their fault the garage gave Mr M different information. But UKI did accept they didnt 
call Mr M back when they said they would.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with UKIs response, so he complained to us. He said hed been told 
the work had been completed within a few days of him contacting UKI  but it had taken UKI 
two weeks after that to sort out the bill. That meant hed been left driving a courtesy car 
unnecessarily. And he wasnt happy that UKI had told him theyd support him through the 
claim  but they hadnt.
Our investigator thought that UKI should pay Mr M £50 compensation for the inconvenience 
hed suffered when the garage refused to release his car to him.  I disagreed with that 
conclusion. I thought UKI hadnt provided Mr M with the guidance about his claim and 
appropriate information on its progress that they should  which had frustrated and 
inconvenienced Mr M. So I made a provisional decision saying that. And I indicated that I 
thought the right level of compensation for that was £150.
Mr M has accepted that compensation. But UKI havent agreed. And theyve said they dont 
think theyve done anything for which they should pay Mr M compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint, in line with my provisional decision.  Ill 
explain why.
Insurers must provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and 
appropriate information on its progress. The repairs to Mr Ms car werent done by an 
approved repairer. So Id expect that information to include anything that UKI would have to 
do differently because the garage wasnt approved - for example, that theyd pay the garage 
by cheque.
But I didnt see anything like that when I considered the evidence. I saw a letter explaining 
that an engineer appointed by UKI would work with the repairers hed chosen to agree what 
work was needed and get it done.  And UKIs letter said:
we want to reassure you that we are with you every step of the way.
The garage didnt communicate well with UKI and Mr M often knew more about the progress 
of repairs than UKI did. As I said in my provisional decision, thats not something UKI can be 
held responsible for. But I did think that they should have told Mr M about the problems they 
were having  that way, Mr M wouldve been fully informed about the progress of his claim. 
And he couldve provided information to UKI that may have assisted UKI to reduce the 
delays in the claim.
Although UKI dont think they should pay Mr M any compensation, they did accept they 
shouldve told him about their difficulty.  They said:
Our only failure was that we did not contact Mr M when we had been having difficulty 
dealing with his garage. However, we were already made aware by Mr M on 19/08/2019 that 
the garage was unwilling to provide Mr M with any information and would only deal with his 
insurer (us). So, even if we had contacted Mr M to let him know of the issues we were 
having with the garage, this would not have helped the situation.
I cant say whether or not UKI are right that telling Mr M wouldnt have had any impact. But I 
do think not telling him left him frustrated and inconvenienced when he need not have been.Putting things right
I said in my provisional decision I thought UKI should pay Mr M £150 compensation for the 
frustration they caused Mr M by not providing him with the guidance and information they 
should have done  which meant he didnt fully understand how the claims process would 
operate in his case. Nothing in the comments Ive received since has changed my view that 
that is the appropriate level of compensation in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and directing UK Insurance 
Limited pay him £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman