DRN-4348616
The complaint
Mr U complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n (RSA) 
for the way it handled his claim. He wants RSA to revise its approach to complaints handling 
and to pay him compensation for his poor treatment.
What happened
Mr Us home is part of a development which was built around 2019. Mr U moved into his 
home in late 2020. 
He insured his property with RSA. 
In October 2022, a minicab was bringing friends of Mr U to his home. Whilst it was turning to 
leave, it reversed into a boundary wall and caused damage to the wall. 
Mr U submitted a claim to RSA. The wall was jointly owned with a number of other properties 
within the development. 
RSA asked Mr U if there had been any pre-existing damage to the wall and he advised that 
there had not. RSA instructed its agent to assess the damage. The surveyor accepted that 
there had been damage and noted that the wall appeared to have been as originally built, 
i.e., without any previous damage or repairs. 
RSAs agent carried out investigations, including a Google Earth check on the property, and 
this appeared to show the same wall, damaged in a similar way, in September 2020. 
The agent asked Mr U to account for this and asked him why he had not mentioned the 
previous damage. 
Mr U explained that he had not moved into the property until after the Google Earth image, 
and presumably after the wall had been repaired. 
Mr U was able to locate CCTV footage showing the car impacting the wall and provided this 
to RSA. 
RSA subsequently accepted the claim and has agreed to cash settle Mr Us share of the 
repair costs. 
Mr U complained to RSA. He felt that he was treated with suspicion and that RSAs agents 
had no interest in finding evidence to support the claim, but only to reject the claim. 
RSA sent its final response in January 2023. It did not uphold Mr Us complaint about the 
way the claim had been handled, but did offer him £100 for delays which had occurred in the 
investigation. 
Mr U was not happy and contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and recommended that RSA increase its 
compensation to Mr U to £250. They acknowledged that RSA is entitled to investigate claims 
but felt like the manner of investigation and communication with Mr U was not handled well 
and created barriers to his claim. 
RSA did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this matter in August 2023. In that provisional 
decision I explained that I did not consider that Mr Us complaint should be upheld. I 
explained that I accepted that RSA and its agents had scrutinised the claim and that this 
would have felt excessive and intrusive, but that RSA is entitled to carry out investigations to 
ensure that it only pays appropriate claims. I felt that RSA had appropriately compensated 
the delays which it had caused, and I did not think that it needed to do anything more. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mr U has responded, not accepting the decision. He states that the notes are not reflective 
of the level of the scrutiny RSAs agents undertook and that the agents argued that the 
impact was a falling plant pot rather than the wall being impacted, even when they saw the 
CCTV. He has stressed that the agents did not respond to him and that this caused delays in 
the claim, and that a manager even accepted that the level of questioning was excessive. 
RSA has not responded to the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Us comments and I accept that he very much felt treated with suspicion. He 
has pointed to the fact that agents appear to promote their services as declining a high 
proportion of claims and so he feels that the agents focus was on declining the claim. 
I do not dispute this, and it is clear that the agents made Mr U feel uncomfortable and 
mistrusted. 
I do, however, remain of my provisional view that RSA is entitled to scrutinise claims and to 
press for evidence, and that I had not seen evidence that its agents had acted unusually in 
this matter. 
I sympathise with Mr U and how he was made to feel, but in this instance there was 
evidence of previous damage, which RSA was entitled to investigate fully in order to validate 
the claim. This clearly feels unfair to Mr U, but RSA also has to balance its obligations to its 
other consumers to only settle valid claims. 
I am pleased that RSA accepted the claim in the end, and I hope that Mr U is able to put this 
matter behind him. 
I accept that the agents did not respond to communications and that this delayed matters, 
but I consider that the compensation paid to reflect this is in line with other awards we would 
make for similar delays. 
Consequently, as my view remains as previously expressed, I adopt my provisional decision 
- as supplemented by this decision - as my final decision and I do not uphold Mr Us complaint. I understand that this will be disappointing to Mr U but I hope it demonstrates that 
I have considered his concerns fully. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in the provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr Us 
complaint and I do not ask Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n to 
do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman