DRN-4132386
The complaint
Mr T complains due to HSBC UK Bank Plcs errors hes not been able to secure an interest 
rate for his mortgage he wanted.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
In October 2021 Mr T paid £999 to secure a rate for a mortgage application for six months. 
He was told to get back in touch six to eight weeks before the end of the six months to allow 
time for the application to be completed. Mr T got back in touch ten weeks before the end of 
the six months but found the application had already been cancelled by HSBC.
After resolving this matter, Mr T also said HSBC had undervalued his property by around 
£300,000. After resolving this issue as well, the application progressed but was then turned 
down due to affordability reasons. Mr T said hed been making larger than usual 
contributions to his pension and could reduce these payments to increase his affordability, 
but HSBC said this wasnt acceptable. Unhappy with these issues he complained to HSBC.
HSBC said their records showed a Decision in Principle (DIP) was issued 29 October 2021 
and Mr T wasnt told if this was left inactive for a few months it could be cancelled. They said 
sorry to Mr T for the lack of communication and awarded him £100 compensation. 
In a later response HSBC explained the DIP issued was for a rate of 1.04% fixed for five 
years (the mortgage interest rate that Mr T had wanted to secure) and it was based on a 
60% loan to value (LTV) of the property. HSBC added Mr T was told it was a bank error for 
the rate to have been cancelled when it was, and so it was reinstated. They added a 
property valuation was done on 15 March 2022, which gave a LTV of 64.65% and Mr T was 
therefore advised to change the rate for his application. Following this, on 23 March 2022 
HSBC said Mr T had an interview with a mortgage adviser, who said the application wasnt 
affordable. They said the mortgage adviser had offered to look at the application further if 
Mr T provided this years P60, but HSBC say it wasnt received. They said any future 
applications would need to be completed on the rates available at the time.
HSBC also said in a call with the mortgage adviser on 23 March 2022 Mr T was asked about 
his existing mortgage rate expiring  and said that Mr T told HSBC he would prefer his 
mortgage to move to a higher rate rather than attempt to fix it due to ongoing changes in his 
personal circumstances. HSBC said as the application didnt progress, they arranged for the 
£999 booking fee to be refunded and said the £100 offer of compensation remained 
available to Mr T. This meant if Mr T still wanted borrowing, hed have to apply at the rates 
available at the time of any future application.
Mr T didnt think this was fair. He went back to HSBC and explained hed been told to wait 
six to eight weeks before the end of the six months  and HSBC hadnt commented on that. 
He said he started the application ten weeks before to be on the safe side and says he was 
told the issues would be resolved which is why he didnt try and apply for another rate  
because he expected to be given the 1.04% once his complaint was upheld. This was at the 
end of February / beginning of March 2022. He said when proceeding HSBC had 
undervalued his property by £300,000 which then required a valuation and more delays 
leading to interest rate movements. Mr T says he was told to complain because his 
mortgage adviser didnt have access to the old rates, but back-office staff could access 
them. Mr T understood this to mean hed have a further six months from March 2022 in 
which to make a mortgage application and receive an offer  and would then be able to 
drawdown the funds within the relevant time limit given in the mortgage offer.
HSBC said they were satisfied in the investigation theyd carried out following Mr Ts 
complaint. So, he asked us to look into things, explaining that the reason for his mortgage 
application was to buy out his wife. He said he had a court hearing in October 2022, and if 
he didnt have evidence of a mortgage approved and ready by then, hed have to sell the 
house which would have a significant financial and emotional impact on him and his family.
One of our Investigators looked into things but didnt think HSBC had to do anything more  
as he didnt think HSBC had made errors leading to Mr T not being able to get the rate he 
initially applied for.
Following this there has been a substantial amount of back and forth between Mr T, HSBC 
and our Investigator. Ive summarised the relevant elements below:
Mr T set the amount of borrowing at 60% LTV against a valuation figure of £1.4m 
initially in October 2021 because he was told this could easily be adjusted without 
impacting on the agreed rate of 1.04%. When the property value was agreed by him, 
his wife and an estate agent at £1.3m, he then approached HSBC on 
28 February 2022, but couldnt continue with the application because itd been 
cancelled.
After complaining to HSBC, they agreed to reinstate the rate on the understanding he 
did a new application and paid the £999 booking fee again which would be refunded 
once it was all locked into the system. Mr T says HSBCs system at this point valued 
his property at just over £1m, which caused a number of issues because it wasnt the 
value he, his wife and an estate agent had agreed. This led to HSBC getting a 
chartered surveyor to confirm the value at £1.3m as Mr T suspected  but these few 
weeks delays led to the 1.04% rate dropping off again. And Mr T said HSBCs 
mortgage adviser told him he couldnt complete the application due to limitations with 
their system which would not allow access to the 1.04% five year fixed rate given it 
was no longer accessible for new business  so he should complain to get the rate 
reinstated.
Mr T also said his new P60 showed he could clearly afford the mortgage at the 
1.04% rate, but the application previously failed because it wasnt conducted using 
the 1.04% rate, it was conducted using the rate at that time which was higher. 
A large number of phone calls have been provided  including Mr T being told if he 
paid another £999 then the rate would be held for a further six months.As I understand it, Mr T hasnt been required to sell the property as he suspected might 
happen in October 2022s court hearing. I understand Mr T still holds the property jointly with 
his wife, and the court proceedings in relation to his divorce appear to have been placed on 
hold while this matter with HSBC is considered by this service. So, Im satisfied the court 
isnt involved in the considerations of this mortgage application and it is something I can look 
at. If anything changes though, that may affect my ability to consider this complaint, and 
Mr T should let our service know as soon as possible.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Ts complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of 
the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Mr Ts more recent focus has been on proving he was told hed have another six months in 
which to have made the application  and says hes confident hed have been successful 
given his history with HSBC.
Although I understand Mr Ts point, actually I think the second six-month time period isnt 
quite as important as what happened in the first six-month time period.
Before explaining my thoughts on that, I do need to explain where information is incomplete, 
contradictory or just unknown, as some of it is in this case, then I need to decide what I think 
is more likely than not to have happened based on the information I do have.
The first six-month time period
On 29 October 2021 Mr T got a DIP at a rate of 1.04% on a fixed rate for five years  and he 
paid a fee of £999 to book this rate.
A DIP is a basic check by a lender to see if they might potentially lend funds to a customer. It 
doesnt guarantee that the lending will be granted, as further checks need to be carried out 
on the property such as valuations, making sure the customer can afford the repayments on 
the mortgage, and checking their credit file, which, amongst other things, all form part of an 
assessment for a full application.
So, at this point, Mr T had simply booked a mortgage interest rate, on the understanding that 
a number of additional steps are needed before he could potentially be granted the lending 
by HSBC.
Mr T was told the DIP lasts six months, with the rate locked in for the duration. So, if he 
completed his mortgage application by the six-month deadline of 27 April 2022, then he 
would secure his mortgage interest rate of 1.04%.
Mr T explained to HSBC the money is for divorce proceedings, so he wanted to know how 
long he could leave it before applying for and drawing down the money. Mr T says HSBC 
told him he should come back to them 6-8 weeks before the end of the six-month period as that should give plenty of time for the full mortgage application process to be completed  
and then hed have further time to draw down the funds once the mortgage offer was 
approved.
But this information was incorrect. What HSBC should have told Mr T is that if there is no 
further activity three months after a DIP has been issued, then the DIP is cancelled, and the 
interest rate booked is lost. Any future application would therefore be subject to the interest 
rates at the time of the new application. 
In Mr Ts case, this means he needed to have progressed his mortgage application by the 
end of January 2022  but its not until 28 February 2022 I can see he looked to proceed 
with his application and found out his DIP had been cancelled.
HSBC have accepted they gave Mr T the incorrect information  which is why they awarded 
him £100 compensation. 
Mr T wants HSBC to be required to offer him a mortgage at 1.04% on the same terms he 
originally applied for  but not until the second six-month time period.
Our service wont generally tell a financial business to lend. Thats because its ultimately 
that businesss commercial judgement on whether they wish to do so or not. And my role is 
to put matters right where theyve gone wrong.
Here, its clear HSBC made an error  but I have to consider the impact of that error and 
what more likely than not would have happened in the circumstances. I can see Mr Ts view 
is the impact is HSBC havent lent to him at a rate of 1.04% and they should. But Ive 
explained above we wouldnt usually tell a lender they have to lend  and actually Mr T 
hadnt got too far in the mortgage application process. So, I cant say with any confidence 
HSBC would have lent to him even if the issue with the delay hadnt happened.
Another option is I could ask HSBC to assess the application based on the October 2021 
DIP criteria. But Id need to be satisfied it was more likely than not the application would 
have got through all of the stages, and that Mr T would have then drawn down the funds. For 
reasons Ill go on to explain, Im not satisfied either of those are more likely than not to have 
happened.
The reality is at this stage I cant know if Mr Ts mortgage application would have been 
successful. I can see he was very confident it would have been but there were a number of 
complications which I think calls that into question.
The first of those is affordability. Im aware Mr T earns a significantly higher than average 
salary, but he did fail affordability when discussing this with a mortgage adviser due to his 
pension contributions reducing the amount of his available income. Hed have had to prove 
he could meet HSBCs requirements before the end of this six-month time period. To do so, 
hed have had to stop his pension contributions, and that then be something HSBC were 
satisfied with from an affordability perspective. 
Mr T has told us he did stop his pension contributions and has provided some evidence of 
this which is appreciated. So, its possible he may have been able to meet HSBCs 
affordability requirements. But HSBCs mortgage underwriters would have needed to 
reassess his affordability  and I cant rule out theyd have had more questions about his 
circumstances. HSBC have made it clear theyre not used to dealing with someone with 
Mr Ts employment status and that in itself seemed to be a complication for HSBC when 
discussing whether he could afford the mortgage or not. I also need to factor in the court proceedings. Initially, its clear Mr T wants to lock in the rate 
as soon as possible in order to borrow the amount he thinks is necessary to buy out his wife 
from the property.
Unfortunately, the divorce proceedings have continued, and Mr T has told us his wife has 
changed her position regarding the house  meaning it might have to be sold. It seems to 
me this was likely always a possibility. Initially Mr T applied online by himself  so this would 
have been a non-advised sale. But, later on, HSBC offered Mr T the option of using one of 
their mortgage advisers which he agreed to. The mortgage adviser may well have said to 
Mr T that locking in a rate for five years, and borrowing such a large amount of money, 
wouldnt be a good idea because of the early repayment charge that he could end up being 
forced to pay. And the mortgage underwriters may well have decided they werent prepared 
to lend in all of these circumstances  and especially if their mortgage adviser was also 
saying this wasnt a good idea. Objectively, it wouldnt seem like a good idea  as Mr T didnt 
have any control over whether the property would need to be sold  and given the amount 
he was borrowing it would then have been a very high early repayment charge.
In addition, even if HSBC had given Mr T the correct information, and hed applied a month 
earlier, I cant be fully satisfied hed have been able to complete all of these steps in time. 
There were a large number of complications which would have taken some time to resolve 
meaning he could easily have missed the six-month DIP time period. In which case then, 
hed have had to reapply for lending at the rates then offered by HSBC  which were higher 
than 1.04%.
I also need to consider Mr Ts position  would he have still wanted to borrow the funds? 
This is a question because in several phone calls in March 2022 Mr T makes it clear its now 
better for him to draw the funds down later.
When Mr T first applied for the DIP in October 2021, I think he thought the divorce 
proceedings would all be resolved within the timeframe for him applying and drawing down 
the funds of that mortgage. I say that because his express purpose of applying for this 
mortgage was to buy his wife out of the property.
But, as we know, unfortunately things didnt end up going as I think Mr T thought they would. 
And by the deadline for this DIP to be completed  27 April 2022  I dont think Mr T 
necessarily wanted to have had the mortgage application completed because of the delays 
with finalising his divorce. And as things stand now, the divorce matters still havent been 
resolved, so Mr T could still be forced to sell the property and has referenced this in his last 
email to our service. So by not completing the application process and drawing down 
additional funds, Mr T is potentially better off for not having the additional financial 
commitment. I think, if obtaining the funds was the most important thing for Mr T, its 
reasonable to question why he didnt and hasnt taken steps to secure the funds in any event 
in order to take full ownership of the property. 
As I mentioned above, an option open to me was to consider whether HSBC should assess 
Mr Ts application in line with the October 2021 criteria. But for all of the reasons Ive 
mentioned above I simply cant be sure any application would have been successful and  
even if it was, Mr T himself has said that didnt work for him anymore.
In the circumstances then, I dont think this is an appropriate remedy. Ill consider what is at 
the end. 
One other point to address though is the valuation as I know Mr T was concerned by this. 
Following on from his contact on 28 February 2022 where he found out his DIP had been cancelled, HSBC progressed the application  a desktop valuation seems to have been 
entered on HSBCs system on 1 March 2022. 
The valuation figure this returned was lower than Mr T was expecting and what was needed 
to keep the mortgage interest rate he wanted. I do need to make it clear I dont think HSBC 
did anything wrong in carrying out a desktop valuation initially as this is not an unusual 
practice. And that following the discrepancy between the expected valuation figure and what 
was returned, they then did the right thing by sending someone out to carry out a more 
detailed valuation. This came back on 15 March 2022 with the amount Mr T expected. 
Because I dont think HSBC have done anything wrong, I dont agree with Mr T HSBC have 
unreasonably delayed things on this point which is why Ive not factored it in to my 
considerations above.
The second six-month time period
Following Mr Ts contact on 28 February 2022 he spoke to someone who told him the rate 
could be re-locked in for another six months if he paid the application fee again. 
Despite asking HSBC for all calls Mr T made, this wasnt provided. HSBC told us theyd 
provided all the calls they had. When we relayed this to Mr T, he didnt believe it, so HSBC 
suggested Mr T do a subject access request (SAR) to ask for all calls  which he did  and 
this call was provided.
This was also on the back of other calls which were referred to in calls provided by HSBC, 
that werent provided to our service when asked. I find this extremely disappointing. I dont 
think HSBC were trying to hide anything, but it shouldnt be necessary for our service to 
make repeated requests for calls, or for one of their customers to be put to the 
inconvenience of doing a SAR, when they should be giving us the relevant information when 
asked.
Ive now listened to the call and Mr T was told if he paid the £999 booking fee again, then the 
rate of 1.04% would be locked in for another six months. My understanding is Mr T wasnt 
able to pay the second £999 booking fee due to system issues.
This was incorrect information. The rate is only booked for six months, so if Mr T had paid 
another booking fee, then that would have been on the rate available at the time  which 
was higher than the 1.04%. Our service doesnt look to make incorrect information true, 
instead we look at the impact of the incorrect information on a consumer.
I understand Mr T would have been happy to lock in the rate of 1.04% for another six 
months, but Im required to put matters right where a mistake has been made. The first 
mistake, and the first time where it would have been appropriate to ask HSBC to assess his 
application again, would be during the first six-month DIP time period. But Ive explained why 
I dont think thats the right thing to do in this case. So, again, Ill consider the way to put right 
this error  telling Mr T the rate could be locked in again for six months in error  in the next 
section.
Putting things right
Overall then, Ive found HSBC have made two errors. They should have told Mr T he needed 
to follow up his DIP from October 2021 within three months  and they told him he could lock 
in the 1.04% rate for another six months when this wasnt correct.Thinking about the first error, in my view this has prevented Mr T from being able to apply for 
the mortgage on the 1.04% rate. But I also think there are too many variables for me to 
reasonably say they should assess his mortgage application based on backdated criteria.
So, I require HSBC to pay Mr T compensation for the errors theyve made in handling 
matters for him. The initial incorrect information has led to problems with Mr T applying for a 
mortgage at a rate he wanted  and has left him feeling like HSBC would put that right when 
actually they werent going to be able to. This has been compounded when, for example, 
Mr T has had to carry out a SAR to provide phone calls to us when HSBC should be able to 
provide them without putting their customer to further inconvenience.
Mr T has made it clear HSBC not being required to offer the 1.04% rate will have a 
significant impact on his family. I am genuinely sorry to hear that as it sounds like he and his 
family have already had an exceptionally difficult time. But overall I think a total of £500 
compensation is fair. Im aware HSBC have already awarded £100  its unclear though if 
this has been paid. So, if it has been then HSBC only need to pay a further £400  if it 
hasnt, then HSBC need to pay £500.
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC replied and said they agreed to my recommendation of £500. They said if Mr T 
accepted this outcome, itd be helpful if he provided the account details of where hed like 
the money paid to.
Mr T provided a number of further responses to my provisional decision. Ive taken into 
account those comments in this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Process of applying
Mr T has made the following comments Id categorise as being relevant to the process of 
applying for the mortgage:
Hes been a customer of HSBC for around nine years but has been carrying out the 
same work for longer than that  so my comment about his employment status being 
an issue for HSBC cant really be true.
For the house valuation, Mr T said this was a bug in HSBCs systems which meant 
they didnt value the property correctly.
He said he didnt fail affordability, the only checks he failed was due to a false 
statement from a mortgage adviser about the pension contributions. 
In respect of Mr Ts comment about his employment status I do understand what hes 
saying. But, I was simply reflecting what HSBC had said in their contact with him. And 
although I understand hes been with them for a long time, that doesnt mean their criteria 
couldnt have changed from when they lent to him before  making his employment status 
more of an issue than it may have previously been.
As for the house valuation, I can see Mr T has drawn on his professional experience to make 
this comment. But I think there is a reality which is house prices fluctuate quite frequently  
and even if, hypothetically, the valuation had been returned as the amount Mr T says was correct, HSBC could have still said they wanted a surveyor to go out and visit the property. 
So, realistically, I cant legitimately say there were any delays caused here.
Regarding affordability I disagree with Mr T and his comments that the mortgage adviser 
made an incorrect statement. From the information I have its HSBCs process to discount 
pension contributions  even voluntary ones  from the calculations on whether someone 
can afford the mortgage or not. When HSBC did this initial calculation they said Mr T couldnt 
afford the mortgage due to his voluntary pension contributions. I do accept Mr T potentially 
could have met these requirements, but at the time of the conversation regarding this he 
simply didnt.
Contact from HSBC
Mr T received contact from HSBC saying hes on their SVR, and as hes already an HSBC 
customer theres no application, eligibility or credit checks, and they dont need any 
documents from him. He said this contact blows a hole in their whole premise.
The contact Mr T has received appears to be a generic email from HSBC to all their 
customers on the SVR  and I think its simply asking if people want to switch to a fixed rate 
mortgage. So, I dont think this was specifically aimed at him, and if someone is borrowing 
more money, as Mr T was planning to, then I would always expect more checks to be done.
Overall outcome Ive reached
Mr T provided a large number of comments, which Ive summarised in my own words as:
Its not fair to discuss the idea of HSBC not honouring their original rate when hes 
proven they were wrong about various things  such as his employment status and 
providing phone calls.
There is no evidence the mortgage application would have been delayed at his end  
the only delays were due to HSBC.
Any outcome that attempts to predict the future success of a mortgage application 
isnt right or fair, particularly when he paid his £999 as part of the contract.
HSBC previously reapplied the original rate proving its a good way to resolve things 
so should do it again  and he cant see the harm in HSBC being asked to do so.
The £500 compensation Ive awarded doesnt compensation him for the extra costs 
on not getting a mortgage elsewhere, when he thought this complaint would sort 
things out.
Ive considered everything Mr T has said carefully, but I do remain of the opinion £500 is still 
overall a fair outcome for this complaint.
As I acknowledged in my provisional decision I cant know if Mr Ts application would or 
wouldnt have been successful. So, all I can do is look at all of the information provided to 
me, to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Here, Mr T applied for a rate and whether he agrees with the reasons given or not, HSBC 
did have some concerns  these being his employment, the valuation of the property, and 
whether he could afford it. Although HSBC had already lent on the property, this doesnt 
mean by default he can get additional lending without checks. As Ive explained, for further 
lending Id virtually always expect checks to take place.The checks that did take place threw up some issues which werent resolved. I cant rule out 
the possibility they all could have been resolved by 27 April 2022  but these points werent 
the only things I was considering.
I was also considering whether Mr T would have wanted to proceed with the mortgage or 
not. Him saying its better for him to delay the mortgage in March 2022, presumably due to 
the divorce proceedings, does make it difficult for me to fairly say he should be allowed to go 
through the process with HSBC.
I also cant ignore that Mr T didnt go and seek alternative lending after HSBC turned down 
his complaint  and then after our service agreed HSBC didnt need to offer him the 1.04% 
rate. I know Mr T will say thats because he was told the complaint would sort things out, but 
I dont think its unreasonable of me to think after hed been told twice that wasnt going to 
happen, he take alternative steps to secure the borrowing he needed.
All of this is also against the backdrop of his divorce. When previously asked Mr T said he 
wasnt able to share confidential information about his divorce. I wouldnt ask nor expect him 
to do so. But, that does mean the concerns I have about the Judge potentially ordering him 
to sell the house remain valid. If the Judge did this, Mr T would be subject to a quite 
significant ERC. 
Overall Im still not satisfied its reasonable to require HSBC to complete the application 
process and potentially offer mortgage terms on a rate of 1.04% when I cant say that the 
application may have reached its conclusion  or that Mr T would ultimately have accepted / 
could have accepted this rate.
As for the £999 HSBC have said this was refunded to Mr T and Ive seen the relevant 
evidence of that. I need to make it clear I cant decide if HSBC have broken the law  Mr T 
has referred to not wanting to break his contract with them  but I can decide if theyve acted 
fairly and reasonably.
I think by refunding the £999 thats fair and reasonable  and due to the errors theyve made 
I remain of the opinion £500 (taking into account the £100 already offered) is a fair way of 
resolving matters.
My final decision
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr T a total of £500 compensation  HSBC can remove any compensation 
already paid for this complaint from this figure.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman