DRN-3102282
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S have complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) mis-
sold them a home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S took out a home insurance policy through Hastings. They provided the 
details of a computer they wanted insured as a specified item on the policy, which was 
valued at £6,000. 
A while later, they were burgled and the computer was stolen. When Mr S and Mrs S tried to 
make a claim under the policy, the policy underwriter told them the computer hadnt been 
specified. So, it said it would only pay £1,500 for the computer.
When Mr S and Mrs S complained to Hastings, it said Mr S and Mrs S had provided the 
details of the computer when they requested the quote through a price comparison website. 
However, Mr S and Mrs S then spoke to Hastings, who told them they would need to specify 
the computer. Mr S and Mrs S then continued to take out the quote online. It said it had 
setup the policy based on the details provided. Hastings also apologised that Mr S and Mrs 
S werent offered a renewal quote. This was because there was an error in its systems 
preventing it from communicating with the underwriter. Had this not happened, it was likely 
the underwriter would have offered a quote. Hastings apologised and offered £75 
compensation.
When Mr S and Mrs S complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. He 
said Hastings now accepted it hadnt passed on the details of the computer to the 
underwriter. As the underwriter would only pay £1,500, he said Hastings needed to pay the 
difference so that Mr S and Mrs S received the full value of the computer. He also said Mr S 
and Mrs S had suffered a range of anxiety due to the issues with dealing with the claim and 
also because they couldnt get home insurance. He said Hastings should pay a total of £500 
compensation.
As Hastings didnt respond to the investigators findings, the complaint was referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
While Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint was with this service, Hastings reviewed what happened 
again and now accepts that Mr S and Mrs S specified the computer and that it didnt pass 
this on to the underwriter. As part of trying to resolve the complaint, it said the underwriter 
was now willing to pay the full value of the computer. Ive seen no evidence of this, and from 
what Ive seen the underwriter maintained its position that it would only pay £1,500, and 
Hastings didnt respond to our investigators findings to confirm the position. So, I require 
Hastings to ensure that Mr S and Mrs S receive the full value of the computer and that it 
pays any difference between the amount the underwriter has paid and the full value of the 
computer, which is £6,000.
Ive also thought about compensation. Hastings has now offered Mr S and Mrs S a total of 
£150 compensation. However, I think Hastings should pay more than this because I dont 
think this fully reflects the impact on Mr S and Mrs S of what happened. In terms of the claim 
itself, Mr S and Mrs S had to spend some considerable time dealing with the underwriters to 
try and get that part of the claim paid. They also had the shock of an item not being fully 
insured when they had specifically requested this. Had it not been for the error made by 
Hastings, this wouldnt have been the case.
Mr S and Mrs S were also caused considerable distress and inconvenience because of the 
issues with getting a renewal quote. Hastings are already aware of the specific distress this 
caused to Mr S because of sleepless nights and anxiety as they had no home insurance and 
why this was particularly acute for him. This was the result of a system error by Hastings, 
which it accepts shouldnt have happened.
So, I think Hastings should pay Mr S and Mrs S a total of £500 compensation as I think this 
better reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to them. This amount includes 
any compensation already paid.
  
Putting things right
Hastings must ensure that Mr S and Mrs S receive the full claim value of their computer, 
which was £6,000, by paying them any difference between that amount and the amount paid 
in settlement by the underwriter. Hastings must also pay £500 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited to:
Ensure that Mr S and Mrs S are paid the full claim value of their computer. They should 
receive a total of £6,000 and any amount already paid to them in settlement for the 
computer by the underwriter can be deducted from the amount that Hastings Insurance 
Services Limited must pay.
Pay a total of £500 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman