DRN-3364598
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as L complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money 
(Virgin Money) applied the incorrect name to payments from Ls account, such that it 
appeared as if those payments had been made by a different party.
L is represented by one of its directors, Mr G.
What happened
L has provided screenshots of three payments made from its account on 16 February 2021 
(two) and 21 March 2021 (one). The screenshots show the correct payees, but do not show 
the payer as L. Rather, the payer is shown as a different limited company Ill refer to as M. 
Mr G says M is an entirely different entity and isnt owned by the people who own L.
Virgin Money says it has checked its system and notes that the account is now showing in 
the correct name, i.e. L. It says the historic account statements from February and March 
2021 show the correct name and it cant see anything to show the account was changed to 
Ms name. However, it couldnt rule out that the account name might have been changed in 
error, perhaps between statements being produced.
Although Virgin Money had no records to show the account name had been changed, 
because it couldnt prove the account name didnt change, it accepted what Mr G had said 
and awarded L £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had experienced.
Virgin Money also offered to send L a letter explaining the issue, so L can forward the same 
to the payees affected to explain what happened was a bank error. Mr G didnt accept Virgin 
Moneys outcome, so he brought Ls complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ls complaint. She accepted a bank error had been made in 
light of the screenshots Mr G had supplied. But she couldnt see anything on Virgin Moneys 
records to show the account had been changed into Ms name. So, she was satisfied the 
issue was limited to the three payments only, and that Ls data hadnt been shared with M, or 
any other unauthorised third parties.
She said she hadnt seen any evidence to show the payments showed on the payees 
accounts as being from M, not L. And she felt Virgin Money had done enough to put things 
right by paying L £50 and offering to send L a letter, confirming the banks error.
Mr G didnt agree. He said Virgin Money hadnt agreed to his required resolution which was 
for Virgin Money to understand and confirm that L and M are two separate legal entities 
which are not linked. He also felt that £50 compensation was inadequate, and that Virgin 
Money should have to write to the payees directly, rather than sending him a letter which he 
would then have to send on himself.
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I agree there has been a bank error here. While Virgin 
Money cant show the account was ever changed to Ms name, Im satisfied from the 
screenshots Mr G has provided that the incorrect payer name appeared, at least at Ls end 
of the transaction. 
I havent seen evidence to show whether or not the same erroneous details appeared at the 
receiving parties end, but given the error appeared at the point of sending, it seems more 
likely than not that the same details would have shown to the payees as well.
So, the question is whether or not Virgin Money has done enough to put matters right for L 
given the mistake. And Im satisfied that it has. While I understand Mr Gs concerns about 
Ls data being compromised, Ive only seen three payments, to two parties, where the 
incorrect details appeared. And its worth noting none of Ls data was compromised. Rather, 
an incorrect name appeared on three payments from Ls account.
I accept that, if the same information appeared at the receiving banks end, this would have 
caused some confusion. But Virgin Money has offered to produce a letter for L that L can 
forward to the two payees. In my determination, doing so rights the wrong here as it would 
explain the confusion to the two receiving parties. 
As a result of having to send two letters, L will experience a small degree of inconvenience. 
But Im satisfied Virgin Money has sufficiently compensated L for that inconvenience, and 
any other inconvenience it experienced, by paying it £50 in compensation. While Mr G has 
described the distress he personally experienced during this time, I cant make an award for 
Mr G personally.
This complaint has been brought by L, a limited company, which cant feel distress. And so, I 
cant reasonably award compensation in recognition of any distress one of Ls directors has 
experienced as a result of Virgin Moneys error.
Mr Gs final request was for Virgin Money to understand that L and M are separate corporate 
entities. But I havent seen anything to suggest Virgin Money doesnt understand that 
already. I accept Ms name appeared as the payer on three payments from Ls account, but 
that doesnt mean Virgin Money has no understanding of legal personality. Im satisfied by its 
explanation that this was an error, and I havent seen any further evidence that persuades 
me the issue is greater than I have set out in this decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman