DRN-3752049
The complaint
Mr R says St Jamess Place UK plc (SJP) is responsible for delaying the cash transfer of 
his pension  from SJP to Fidelity  and for the financial losses he incurred because of the 
delay.
SJP accepts partial responsibility for the delay. It says it has assessed financial loss on this 
basis but has been informed by Fidelity that there is no such loss, and it says it has offered 
Mr R £200 to reflect its apology for the delay in communicating this outcome to him. 
Mr R maintains that SJP is wholly responsible for the delay, that compensation for financial 
loss should be on this basis and that, in the alternative and based on the partial 
responsibility it concedes, SJPs financial loss assessment is flawed (as it has been 
presented) and uses the wrong benchmark  the assessment that has been presented 
should show a financial loss, assessment upon the correct benchmark also shows a financial 
loss and he should be compensated for such loss.
What happened
The transfer process began on 26 November 2020, when SJP received the transfer 
instruction through Origo Options (the electronic pensions/assets transfer platform). The 
process, at SJPs end, was concluded on 11 February 2021 when the pensions liquidated 
proceeds were released to Fidelity. Between these dates were, mainly, the following:
On 30 November and 17 December 2020 SJP wrote to Mr R with requests for 
identification documentation required as part of the process. These letters were sent 
only to his office. The pandemic related lockdown was in place during this period, so 
Mr R was not using his office. However, the office address was the only 
correspondence address on record for his SJP pension.
Mr R eventually learnt about the request and sent in the required documentation on 8 
January 2021. SJP denies responsibility for the delay up to his response on this date. 
It says it sent the requests to the correspondence he lodged on record for the 
pension, that he did not update this to an alternative address at the time and that it 
was bound, by its data protection responsibility, to use the address on record for 
such correspondence. Mr R disagrees. He questions the call for the identification 
verification that SJP sought, given that he had held an account with SJP since the 
1990s and such verification had been previously exhausted; and he argues that the 
lockdown defined state of affairs at the time ought to have prompted SJP to foresee 
that he would not be using the office and to notify him about its request in another 
way.
On 11 January 2021 SJP processed its receipt of the documentation and emailed   
Mr R to say they were unacceptable as they were copies, not originals. He replied on 
the same day to confirm that they were indeed originals. SJP then acknowledged that 
he was correct, and it used the date of 11 January 2021 for pricing of the pensions 
liquidation  it has explained that it used the pricing on the next working day (11 
January 2021) after receipt of the documentation it requested (on 8 January 2021).
Thereafter, the liquidation proceeds were not released to Fidelity until 11 February 
2021. SJP accepts fault in this respect. It says an internal system defect (that had to 
be addressed manually) caused a delay, otherwise, after processing of the 
documentation on 11 January 2021 and based on its standard service levels, the 
transfer would have been released on 18 January 2021.
Mr R complained and SJP responded on 26 February 2021. It accepted responsibility 
only for the delay between 18 January 2021 and 11 February 2021. It promised to 
calculate whether (or not) Mr R incurred a financial loss as a result of this, and based 
on the delay caused to the post transfer reinvestments made in the Fidelity pension. 
SJP did not share the calculation outcome until 15 October 2021. It apologised for 
the delay in doing that and offered Mr R £200. It also confirmed that information it 
obtained from Fidelity  which it shared (in the form of a table with asset numbers, a 
shares to compensate column and a cash to compensate column)  showed there 
had been no financial loss caused by the delay.
One of our investigators looked into the case, considered that it should be upheld but 
concluded that it should be upheld only on the basis of the delay caused by SJP between 18 
January 2021 and 12 February 2021. She considered that SJP had followed the approach 
towards redress that this service would expect; that the approach appears to have shown no 
financial loss to redress; that it correctly used pricing on 11 January 2020 for liquidation of 
the pensions holdings; that it did not cause the delay prior to this date because its 
identification verification requests were reasonable and they were reasonably sent to the 
address (for Mr R) on record; that she notes Mr Rs claim that he would have reinvested 
differently on 4 December 2020 (after the transfer should have been completed, but for that 
initial delay)  which she did not uphold; and that SJPs offer of £200 is a reasonable amount 
to compensate for its delay in confirming the loss assessment outcome.
Mr R disputes the investigators view and he retains his core submissions on the case (as 
summarised above). He asked for an ombudsmans decision and highlighted, in the main 
and in addition, the following submissions for the ombudsmans attention:
The issues to determine are SJPs liability for the first period of delay (between 4 
December 2020 and 11 January 2021); its liability for the second period of delay 
(between 11 January and 12 February 2021 (when Fidelity received the released 
funds)); full redress, due from SJP, if it is found responsible for the first period of 
delay; or partial redress, due from SJP, only for the second period of delay; accurate 
calculation of redress (in either case); interest, from 12 February 2021 onwards, on 
the compensation due to him; and additional compensation for the fact that any such 
compensation  which, but for SJPs wrongdoing, would have been value within the 
pension  cannot be paid into the pension due a fixed protection element within it, 
and will therefore be outside the tax efficient pension wrapper.
We should find that SJP is responsible for the first period of delay, for the reasons he 
has set out  he had been their client since the 1990s; his identification verification 
had been established in that history; this calls into question the verification it sought 
in response to the transfer request; he had been communicating with SJP by email 
and telephone at the time and informed them he was working from home because his 
office was closed due to lockdown; therefore it ought reasonably to have been aware 
that sending its request to his office would not reach him in good time or at all.
In the alternative, we must find SJP responsible for the second period of delay, given that it has conceded and explained its fault for that.
Redress, in terms of SJPs responsibility for the first period of delay, should be 
complete. But for that delay, the transfer would have concluded in time for him to 
reinvest in the Fidelity pension on 4 December 2020. His loss is therefore from that 
date onwards. How, after the delays, he reinvested in the Fidelity pension in 
February 2021 (most of which was done between 15 and 19 February, as the former 
was the first trading day after Fidelitys receipt of the transfer on 12 February) is not a 
fair indication of how he would have reinvested in December 2020. His investment 
strategy was forced to change during this period because of the delay and because 
of market events. Without the delay, he would have pursued his preferred strategy 
on 4 December 2020 [which he set out in his submissions, alongside evidence of his 
past investing approach which, he says, stands in support of his submissions]. 
Complete redress, calculated up to 12 February 2021, should be due to him on this 
basis, with interest (at the rate of 8% per year) thereafter and to date.
If redress is awarded only for SJPs responsibility for the second period of delay the 
liquidation value of his SJP pension at the time and the liquidation proceeds actually 
transferred should first be accurately addressed  as the latter appears to have been 
less than the former, and an amount similar to the Early Withdrawal Charge that SJP 
agreed to waive appears to have been deducted.  Another preliminary matter is the 
need to correct SJPs omission, from the loss assessment table it presented, of some 
of the reinvestments made in the Fidelity pension between 15 and 19 February 2021 
 this creates a reason for us to ask SJP to disclose information about its loss 
assessment and to review such information. To aid the correction, he has submitted 
an excel document showing the reinvestments that were made and how, overall, they 
would have been cheaper if executed earlier  hence a basis for his loss and a basis 
to find that SJPs table misrepresents the loss assessment. In addition, and for the 
wider investment strategy reasons he set out, it is also reasonable to find that the 
reinvestments he made in February 2021 would not have been the same as those he 
would have made in January 2021, had the transfer been released earlier. He would 
have invested differently, as he has explained. Therefore, redress should be 
calculated to reflect the loss he incurred from being unable to reinvest in that way on 
8 or 11 January 2021 and calculated up to 12 February 2021, plus interest from 12 
February 2021 to date.
His claim for the loss of a tax efficient pension wrapper for the compensation that is 
due to him is estimated at £10,000. 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mr Rs summary of the key issues in his complaint, and I address them below.
First Period of Delay
In this respect, I have considered the period between initiation of the transfer process on 26 
November 2020 and SJPs receipt and processing of the identification documents on 8 and 
11 January 2021. I note SJPs error in initially rejecting the documents it received and its 
subsequent acknowledgment that they were indeed the required originals. However, this 
need not be addressed further because it caused no detriment to the process, the liquidation value of the pension was set to prices on 11 January 2021. 
The first period of delay began soon after Monday 30 November 2020, the date on which 
SJP wrote to Mr R with the identification verification request. Before then, the transfer was 
initiated on Thursday 26 November 2020, so SJPs request two working days after was not 
unduly delayed. As summarised above, it repeated its request on 17 December 2020. It did 
so because it had not received a response from him. Mr R responded on 8 January 2021, 
the documents he submitted were processed on 11 January 2021 and the same date was 
used for the liquidation valuation. 
Mr Rs argument is that either no time should have been taken up by the exercise or less 
time would have been consumed by it if SJPs request was communicated differently. He 
says, or suggests, the verification exercise was unnecessary; and, or in the alternative, he 
says SJP ought not to have sent its request to his office, instead it ought reasonably to have 
sent it by email. On balance, I disagree in both respects. 
I have not seen evidence that SJP did not need the identification verification that it sought 
from Mr R. Its letter provided perfectly reasonable grounds for its request  anti-money 
laundering laws requiring such verification prior to payment from the pension and the 
absence of a current verification for Mr R. Even if past verification had happened in the 
history between the parties, on balance, it was not unreasonable to ask for current 
verification in the absence of one. I have not seen evidence that current verification was 
already place at the time of SJPs request. Overall, I consider that the verification exercise 
was reasonable and necessary. Furthermore, events show that the exercise was essentially 
resolved within a day to two days when the identification documentation was eventually 
received, so I do not consider that, of itself, it played a role in delaying the transfer. 
What caused a delay was Mr Rs response to the request. He says this should be viewed 
differently and that the cause should not be seen as the time it took for him to become aware 
of SJPs request (after which he promptly addressed it) but it should be seen as SJPs error 
in sending the requests to the wrong place, given particular and relevant circumstances at 
the time. I understand the circumstances he has referred to, but the fact remains that the 
correspondence address on record for the pension was his office address. SJP was not 
wrong to use that address for correspondence about his pension.
SJPs request was of a formal nature, it arose from its anti-money laundering responsibility. 
It is not unreasonable to expect that such formal communication will be directed to the 
correspondence address on record for a pension account. Could it have been coupled or 
followed by informal notice or an informal reminder, from SJP to Mr R, by email or 
telephone? Possibly. However, on balance, I am not persuaded that SJP was obliged to 
follow-up in such ways. There appears to be no evidence of a prior update to the 
correspondence address on record or of SJP previously being told to redirect 
communications in any way. It was prompted to send a reminder on 17 December 2020 but 
it did that to the same address. I do not consider it was wrong to do that and, despite the 
circumstances Mr R has cited, I also do not consider it reasonable to expect SJP to have 
taken it upon itself to redirect such a formal communication without instruction to do so.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I acknowledge that there was a delay 
in the transfer process during the period between 30 November 2020 and 8/11 January 2021 
but I am satisfied that SJP was not responsible for it. It follows that I also do not uphold      
Mr Rs claim for redress based on this period of delay (the first period of delay), so I will not 
be addressing this aspect of his submissions.
Second Period of DelayThere is no meaningful purpose in addressing liability for this in detail. SJP accepts that it is 
responsible for the defect in its internal systems that delayed the release of the transfer to 
Fidelity after 11 January 2021. Available evidence supports this. Its liability for this period of 
delay is therefore settled. 
In terms of defining the period itself, on balance, I am persuaded by SJPs estimation that, 
but for the delay, the transfer release would have concluded in five working days after its 
processing of the identification verification on 11 January 2021  so, by 18 January 2021. 
Bearing in mind the release process at SJPs end and time for the funds to be cleared and 
received by Fidelity, this estimation is not unreasonable. Due to the delay, the release 
happened on 11 February 2021 and was received by Fidelity on 12 February 2021, so the 
period of delay is between 18 January and 12 February 2021. 
For the purpose of resolving Mr Rs complaint, the key date is 18 January 2021, on which 
the transfer would probably have been received by Fidelity. Based on his actions in February 
2021 he would probably have begun to reinvest in the Fidelity pension from then (18 January 
2021). This proposition has already been presented (and accepted) by SJP and it was also 
reflected in the investigators view, so my finding in this respect is not new to the complaint. I 
understand why Mr R has described the second period of delay as beginning on 11 January 
2021. If he means the second phase of the transfer process, after the identification 
verification exercise, began on this date, he is correct  and, of course, that phase 
experienced a delay. However, in terms of the delay itself and for the reasons given above, 
the second period of delay began on 18 January 2021.
Redress Issues
I address this only in the context of SJPs liability to compensate Mr R for financial loss 
arising directly from the second period of delay  which I hereafter refer to as the delay. In 
pension/asset transfer cases like his, where assets are liquidated at one end of the transfer 
and the proceeds are to be reinvestment at the other, the potential for financial loss can 
arise at both ends. There is a need to consider whether (or not) the relevant delay (by the 
firm) caused a loss in the liquidation value that was achieved and/or whether it caused a loss 
in terms of the reinvestments that were intended and/or subsequently made. 
In Mr Rs case, the delay began (on 18 January 2021) after the liquidation valuation set on 
11 January 2021, so there is no need to address compensation for a loss of liquidation 
value. No such loss was caused by the delay. The matter that remains is that of 
reinvestment loss. Nevertheless, and as I set out below and in response to Mr Rs concerns 
about inaccuracies in the transfer value, it is important that the accurate liquidation value of 
the SJP pension as of 11 January 2021 was the basis for the transfer to Fidelity and is the 
basis for calculating redress for any reinvestment loss.
Without the delay Mr Rs reinvestments in the Fidelity pension would have happened earlier. 
Both parties agree on this, as do I. Mr R says, without the delay, he would have invested 
differently in January 2021; that, aside from this argument, taking SJPs loss assessment as 
it is the assessment is wrong; it does not capture all the reinvestments made in the Fidelity 
pension and the net loss that resulted from the delay in making those reinvests (that is, on a 
net basis, they could have been made at lower prices in January 2021 than the prices at 
which they were made in February 2021). 
His first argument is essentially that what would have been his preferred investments as of 
January 2021 is what should be used as the benchmark for calculating redress. Overall and 
on balance, I am not persuaded by it. I have considered the evidence he shared with us and 
I understand the inferences that can be drawn from them. However, my determination rests 
on the balance of probabilities, so I need to consider which investments he probably would have made on/from 18 January 2021  the preferred investments or the investments he 
actually made around a month later in mid-February 2021? The balance of available 
evidence is that he would have probably made the latter. I note the conviction with which he 
says he would have made the former and I do not say or suggest that I know more about his 
intentions at the time than he does, but I can make a finding on the balance of available 
evidence and that is what I have done for this issue.
The investments Mr R made in the Fidelity pension from 15 February 2021 onwards are 
undisputed, and undisputable. They were made directly after the transfer that features in this 
complaint. They were made around a month later than they probably would have been made 
if the delay had not happened. Investment plans and decisions can change within a month, 
and the same could reasonably be said about such plans and decisions changing over 
weeks, days or even hours. Such changes also depend on the approach being applied  for 
example, a long-term investment approach versus a day trading approach  and, especially, 
on the objective.
Mr R repeatedly confirms that he invested for growth, with references to evidence in support 
of this. Part of his approach was to follow relevant price trends. He says he departed slightly 
from the all-growth objective in February 2021 because the trends he was monitoring were 
probably close to ending and because some unusual price opportunities presented 
themselves  so he maintained the growth objective for some of the investments and, for the 
others, invested outside of the objective. 
My first observation is that Mr Rs pre-planned objective/approach remained in place for 
some of the February 2021 investments, so this lends support to the finding that they can be 
used to determine what he would have invested in on/from 18 January 2021. 
My second observation is that he was prepared to compromise part of his pre-planned 
objective/approach if he considered that an opportunity justified doing so. To be clear, this is 
in no way a criticism, he was fully entitled to make pragmatic decisions as an informed 
investor. However, the implication that arises is that something similar could also have 
happened around 18 January 2021. In other words, if his pre-planned objective/approach 
was unyielding there is a better argument that it, alone, would probably have influenced his 
investments around 18 January 2021. However, the same argument is impaired and, in my 
view, defeated in the face of evidence that his approach was not unyielding. He could 
probably have done, around 18 January 2021, something similar to what he did in February 
2021 if an opportunity outside his pre-planned approach presented itself.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I find that the basis for considering what the 
Fidelity pension would have been invested in, on/from 18 January 2021, is what it was 
invested in from 15 February 2021 onwards, because those were probably the investments 
that would have been made on/from the earlier date. Mr R could argue that the same 
opportunity was not present around 18 January 2021. If that is the case, I retain the view  
for the same reasons above  that the investments in February are still the best available 
and fair basis for a redress benchmark.
The above core conclusion is also not new to the complaint. It was used by SJP in the loss 
assessment and it is essentially the same reached by the investigator.
The next redress issue to address is the loss assessment. SJP has used the correct 
approach and basis, but Mr Rs points about inaccuracies cannot reasonably be ignored. 
Indeed, they must be addressed because the assessment must produce definitive and 
accurate outcomes on whether (or not) he is due compensation and, if so, on the amount of 
that compensation. For these reasons, I have made provisions in the next section below.The other redress issues to address are Mr Rs references to interest and to compensation 
for the inability to pay any compensation into his tax efficient pension wrapper. For the sake 
of completeness, I agree with and endorse the offer of £200 that has been made to him for 
SJPs delay in communicating the loss assessment outcome. It is a fair amount that, I 
consider, adequately reflects SJPs service failure in terms of the delay, its length and, most 
importantly, its effect on Mr R (that is, being deprived knowledge, during the delay, of an 
outcome he had been promised and was entitled to).
SJP said the aim of its loss assessment was/is to calculate what Mr Rs  value would 
presently be with [Fidelity], had they received [his] funds on 18 January 2021. This matches 
the approach that this service would expect in a case like Mr Rs. It also means the 
assessment runs to the present and, effectively, to the point the case is resolved. It runs 
based on how his Fidelity pension would have performed (up to such point) had the 
transferred funds been received on 18 January 2021. As a result, there is no need to apply 
8% interest (per year) from 12 February 2021 to date. There is no evidence that the pension 
would have had such performance (that is, at the rate of 8% per year) during this period if 
the transferred funds had been received on 18 January 2021. Instead, the correct approach 
 as I set out below  is to assess how, using the investments in the Fidelity pension from 
February 2021 onwards as the benchmark, the pension would have performed to date had 
the same investments been made from 18 January 2021 onwards; comparing that with how 
the pension has actually performed to date; and compensating Mr R for any resulting 
negative difference.
This service has experience of cases in which compensation cannot be paid into a 
complainants pension. We have an approach in this respect and, given that Mr Rs is one 
such case (for the reasons he has explained), I refer to that approach in the section below. I 
have not seen cause in this case to depart from the approach.
Putting things right
The orders I give below do not alter the redress basis offered to Mr R by SJP, and they do 
not alter the approach it used in its offer. I have already addressed these points above. 
However, I give the orders because redress is yet to be concluded, there appear to have 
been inaccuracies within SJPs loss assessment considerations and there are unresolved 
concerns about those inaccuracies. Instead of addressing the submissions that have been 
made in these respects, I consider it meaningful to simply set out what the redress must 
fairly and reasonably look like in practice and the requirement for accuracy throughout its 
calculation.
The aim is to put Mr R as close as possible to the position he would now be in if the delay 
had not happened. 
I order SJP to provide Mr R with evidence that his SJP pensions liquidation value as of 11 
January 2021 is exactly the same as the basis for the cash transfer value it released to 
Fidelity on 11 February 2021; to provide him with a calculation  in a clear and simple format 
 in this respect; and, if a deficit in the values used is found to exist, to add that deficit to the 
calculation of the fair value that I refer to below.
I order SJP to calculate how all the Fidelity pensions investments (beginning from 15 
February 2021) have performed to date, reflecting any investment switches in this period. I 
order Mr R to provide SJP with all information and documentation it reasonably needs, and 
does not already have, in order to conduct this calculation. The result of this calculation is 
the actual value.Performance of all the investments made in the Fidelity pension from 15 February 2021 to 
date (reflecting any investment switches made in this period) is, collectively, the benchmark 
for the calculation of redress in this case.
I order SJP to calculate how the Fidelity pension (plus the value of any transfer deficit, as 
addressed above) would have performed from 18 January 2021 to date, if it had been 
invested (from 18 January 2021 to date) in a fashion identical to the benchmark. The result 
of this calculation is the fair value.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is due to Mr R. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value, the difference is the total compensation that SJP must 
pay to Mr R.
I order SJP to pay any resulting compensation to Mr R directly because he has explained 
that it cannot be paid into his Fidelity pension as that would conflict with the existing fixed 
protection within it. Had it been possible to pay it into the pension, it would have provided a 
taxable income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age (for example, if he 
is or is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would 
equal the current basic rate of tax and if he would have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation). This aims to treat the 
compensation, as close as possible, as if it had been paid into the pension.
I order SJP to provide Mr R with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept a final decision. In Mr Rs case, the complaint event occurred 
after 1 April 2019 (it happened between 2020 and 2021) and the complaint was referred to 
us after 1 April 2020, so the applicable compensation limit would be £355,000.
I order SJP to pay Mr R £200 for the trouble and inconvenience caused to him by its delay in 
communicating (to him) the outcome of the loss assessment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I order St Jamess Place UK plc to 
conduct the calculation, and any resulting payment (to Mr R), of redress as I have set out 
above. If any resulting compensation is not paid to him within 28 days of St Jamess Place 
UK plc being informed of his acceptance of this decision, St Jamess Place UK plc must pay 
him interest on the total compensation amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the 
date of this decision to the date of settlement  this is to compensate him for any such delay 
by St Jamess Place UK plc in making any resulting compensation payment.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman