DRN-1393759
 
The complaint
Ms D complains that Santander UK plc has refused to send her a credit card statement so 
that she can pay her outstanding balance
What happened
Ms D would like to pay her Santander credit card balance but would like to see her credit 
card statement first. She says Santander has refused to send her a copy and has insisted 
she attend a branch with identification first. Ms D says she runs a small business and it's not 
possible for her to attend a branch. She also says she has no banking relationship with 
Santander and questions why it can send her arrears letters but can't send her the 
statement. Ms D says she has destroyed the credit card and would just like to know what the 
outstanding balance of just over £600 is made up of and pay off that balance when checked.
Santander says security blocks were placed on Ms D's account due to fraud concerns in line 
with account terms and conditions. It says the only way for the blocks to be removed is for 
Ms D to attend a branch with identification. Santander says there are three branches close to 
Ms D's home and that Ms D could have paid the balance in any event.
Ms D brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Santander had acted in line with the account terms and conditions and it was up to it 
to decide what its fraud policies are. The investigator asked Ms D if she worked on 
weekends, which she confirmed she did not, and so thought she could attend a Santander 
branch. 
Ms D says she's not going to waste her weekend by attending a branch and questions why 
Santander simply can't send her the statement. She says she is never going to attend a 
branch and so Santander will not get paid. Ms D is concerned about how this is affecting her 
credit file and says there is no security threat as her address hasn't changed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for largely the same reasons. I realise Ms D will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels about the position.
I have looked at the credit card account terms and conditions, which I think Ms D would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. And I can see that Santander is entitled to place 
security blocks on an account where it has fraud concerns. So I don't think Santander made 
a mistake or acted unfairly here by placing the blocks on Ms D's account when it had such 
fraud or security concerns. I also think it's up to Santander to make such a decision when 
exercising its commercial judgement and its not our role to tell a bank or building society 
what its policies should be on such matters as we are not its regulator.So it follows that I don't think Santander acted unfairly or made a mistake by asking Ms D to 
attend a branch with identification. I appreciate that any fraud measures can on occasions 
cause genuine customers inconvenience but I'm satisfied that Santander has a requirement 
to protect customers from fraud. I also appreciate what Ms D says that her address hasn't 
changed and Santander is sending her arrears letters. But for the reasons I have explained I 
think it's up to Santander to decide what its fraud and security measures are and what it 
requires its customers to do in these sorts of circumstances.
I am satisfied that Santander has explained what Ms D needs to do in order for the account 
blocks to be removed and for her to receive the statement. I appreciate Ms D works during 
the week. But I think Santander during one of the calls between them fairly and reasonably 
offered to check where her nearest branch was, so she could attend on a weekend. I can 
also see that the investigator told Ms D that there were three Santander branches close to 
her home and open on a Saturday. So I'm satisfied that if Ms D can't attend a branch during 
the week then she could reasonably attend on a weekend. I appreciate that Ms D says she 
will not do that and that Santander will not receive its money but no doubt Ms D will consider 
the possible impact on her credit file if she doesn't pay the balance.
I can see that Ms D accepts she owes Santander at least some of the balance of just over 
£600 as she has told us and Santander that she simply wishes to pay what she owes. I don't 
think Ms D has told us that she disputes any specific transaction. And if Ms D does think the 
outstanding balance is wrong then I would have expected her to attend a branch with her 
identification so that she could correct the position. I also think Ms D ought to be aware of 
what she used her credit card for as at the time of the blocks she has told us that she was 
able to view her previous statement. 
Overall I'm satisfied that Santander has acted fairly and reasonably and has explained on a 
number of occasions what Ms D needs to do so that the account block can be removed.In 
those circumstances I can't fairly order it to send Ms D her account statement or change its 
fraud policies and procedures.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman