DRN-1655352
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Nationwide Building Society handled his chargeback request, 
and with the customer service he received from Nationwide during the chargeback process.
What happened
Mr B phoned Nationwide on 19 June 2019 asking it to raise a chargeback dispute. Hed 
bought a phone from Argos on Ebay, and hed paid for this with his Nationwide debit card 
through PayPal. Mr B explained to Nationwide on the call that hed returned the item as it 
wasnt as described.
Nationwide asked Mr B for proof that hed returned the item, and proof of purchase. 
Nationwide also said that if it needed more information, itd be in touch.
Mr B sent the requested information to Nationwide, and it confirmed on 2 July 2019 that it 
had received proof of purchase and proof of return postage. Nationwide said it can take up 
to 10 days to review the information.
Nationwide emailed Mr B on 5 July 2019 to say that it was still waiting for supporting 
evidence to progress the claim  reason for return. Mr B responded to this email explaining 
the reason for the return.
As Mr B hadnt heard from Nationwide, he called it again on 15 July 2019 for an update. 
Mr B was unhappy that this still hadnt been sorted. Nationwide explained that it needed 
more detailed reasoning, and it also needed evidence that Mr B attempted to resolve this 
with the merchant and PayPal. Mr B explained hed already given everything, and he started 
to raise his voice. The phone operator eventually terminated the call because of that. Mr B 
wasnt happy about this.
Nationwides phone notes from the time also show that the operator was going to explain 
why the information was still needed to raise the chargeback dispute  but he didnt get an 
opportunity to do that as Mr B didnt let him speak. Mr B phoned Nationwide again on the 
same day to raise a complaint, and this call was terminated as well.
Nationwide says it issued Mr B a final response to his complaint on 8 August 2019. In this 
letter it explained what further information was needed for the chargeback dispute to be 
raised:
Detailed description of what was not as described or defective
Date he received the merchandise
Confirmation that hes attempted to resolve the dispute with the merchant
Nationwide also said that as Mr B had used an unacceptable tone during his calls with 
Nationwide, the phone operators correctly gave him a warning that if he continued to speak 
that way, theyd terminate the call. As he did, Nationwide was satisfied the operators had 
correctly terminated the calls. But Nationwide acknowledged Mr B had to wait too long to get 
through to the correct team, so it paid Mr B £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong when it hadnt raised the chargeback dispute. To do that, it needed more 
information from Mr B. Our investigator was satisfied Nationwide had tried to explain this to 
Mr B over the phone, but Mr B didnt give it the opportunity to do so. And Nationwide had 
sent Mr B a final response letter outlining what information was needed before the deadline 
to raise the chargeback dispute expired.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said hed done everything Nationwide 
asked of him, and he doesnt think Nationwide did send the final response letter when it says 
it did  he only received a copy of it when he visited a branch. 
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B wanted Nationwide to raise a chargeback dispute. This is raised with the relevant card 
scheme, and there are requirements that need to be met for a chargeback dispute to be 
processed.
Mr B told Nationwide the phone he bought wasnt as described  it wasnt new and a 
different colour to the one he bought. Nationwide first said Mr B would need to send proof of 
purchase and that he returned the phone, which he did.
But this isnt enough for a chargeback dispute to be raised under defective merchandise or 
not as described based on the rules set by the relevant card scheme. As Nationwide 
explained, what was missing was:
An explanation of what was not as described or defective
The date the cardholder received the item
Proof that the cardholder attempted to resolve the dispute with the merchant
The key evidence that was missing here was a more detailed explanation of what wasnt as 
described than what Mr B had said so far, and the proof that Mr B had attempted to resolve 
the dispute with the merchant  so with Argos on Ebay. As Nationwide didnt have these, I 
dont think it did anything wrong by not raising the chargeback dispute. This is because it 
didnt have all the information required for the card scheme to process the dispute  so its 
unlikely the chargeback wouldve been successful.
I do think it wouldve been helpful if Nationwide had been clear from the outset what 
evidence is needed for the chargeback dispute to be raised. But it did say that if more 
information was needed, itd be in touch. 
Im satisfied Nationwide did tell Mr B during the phone call on 15 July 2019 that it needed 
more detailed reasoning for the reason for return, and evidence that Mr B attempted to 
resolve this with the merchant. Ive also seen Nationwides notes for this call that it was 
going to clarify why the information was needed, but Mr B didnt give it the opportunity to do 
so because he raised his voice which led to the call being terminated. Mr B didnt send 
further information to Nationwide.I know Mr B says he didnt receive the final response letter issued in August until he visited a 
branch. Firstly, I have noted that there are two final response letters on file  one dated 
6 August, and the other 8 August. But I dont think this makes a difference. I say this 
because based on the system notes Nationwide has sent us, it looks like a final response 
letter was sent in August after it was issued. I can also see that both versions of the final 
response letter were correctly addressed. Considering everything, Im not persuaded that it 
wasnt sent at this point, and I dont think it was Nationwides fault if Mr B didnt receive it.
Overall, I dont think Nationwide has done anything wrong by not raising the chargeback 
dispute, as it didnt think it had enough evidence to do that. And Im satisfied it had tried to 
clarify to Mr B over the phone and in a letter what information was missing.
For completeness sake, Ive also considered if Nationwide shouldve raised a chargeback 
dispute under a different reason  cancelled merchandise/services. But to do that, Mr B 
wouldve still needed to provide proof that hed attempted to resolve the dispute with the 
merchant. As he didnt, I dont think this makes a difference.
Ive also listened to the phone calls Mr B had with Nationwide, and I dont think it did 
anything wrong during those calls  other than what Ive said earlier about how it wouldve 
been helpful to explain what evidence was needed from the outset.
Nationwide has paid Mr B £50 compensation for the delays in being able to speak to the 
relevant team when he phoned. Overall, I think this is fair and reasonable compensation in 
all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman