DRN-2834279
The complaint
Y complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) held an old phone number in their system after it 
advised a new number.
What happened
In February 2019, Y advised Lloyds of a new mobile number for its director. The new 
number was added, but the old number also remained in Lloyds records.
Y complained. It was concerned there had been a data breach.
Lloyds told us that they didnt keep an systems audit trail for changes in numbers, but they 
could see that what appeared to have happened was that Y advised the new number in 
February 2019, but the old number wasnt deleted. Lloyds told us theyd searched their 
records and couldnt see that they hadnt used the old number in the last year. They hadnt 
issued a final response letter to Y as, when it had complained to them in September 2020, Y 
had accepted Lloyds apology and theyd paid £50 compensation for what had happened.
Y brought its complaint to us. Our investigator said that Lloyds had dealt with Ys complaint 
fairly. Lloyds had admitted they held the wrong number in their records for a period and had 
apologised and paid compensation.
Y asked that its complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds went back through their records to see what had happened. And it does appear that 
two numbers were held in their system for Y after it advised a change of number in February 
2019. But, following Ys complaint to them, they apologised and put things right. Lloyds 
looked at any contact theyd made with Y over the last year, and the old number hadnt been 
used. So, there hasnt been any wrongful use of data. And, Y hasnt brought forward any 
damages or costs caused by what happened. I also see that Y agreed to close its complaint 
in September 2020 when it accepted Lloyds apology and compensation of £50.
So  Lloyds have dealt with this matter fairly and reasonably, and I wont be asking them to 
do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman