DRN-3253672
The complaint
Mr M complained about the advice he was given by Portafina Investment Management 
Limited to transfer his defined benefit occupational pension to a flexi-access income 
drawdown pension.
What happened
In 2018 Mr M approached Portafina to get some financial advice. On 24 September 2018 
Portafina issued a suitability report which outlined Mr Ms current position and objectives, 
and Portafinas advice/recommendation and reasons for it. In summary, the report said:
Mr Ms present financial position
he was 54 and he wanted to take benefits from his pension when he turned 55
he was married and owned his home  worth around £85,000 with an outstanding 
mortgage of £47,000 (with monthly repayments of £364)
he earned approximately £26,000 a year, and was a member of his employers pension 
scheme
he had outstanding loans totalling £27,720 (with monthly repayments of £796) and an 
outstanding credit card balance of £500 (with monthly repayments of £50)
he had disposable income of £508 per month.
Mr Ms objectives
to tackle his debt and to have an opportunity to be debt free
to create an emergency fund
to have greater flexibility about how he can access his pension in the future
to maximise tax free cash versus the current scheme
to have a greater choice and flexibility when it comes to death benefit to have ownership 
and control of his pension fund
Alternative ways to raise funds
a loan, re-mortgage, disposable income, assets
the conclusion was that none of these options was viable
Required growth
the critical yield (which is essentially the amount the new pension needed to grow by in 
order to match the benefits Mr M was giving up, assuming he bought an annuity) based 
on Mr M retiring at 65 was
o7.8% based on a tax free lump sum cash payment and a reduced pension being 
paid by the existing scheme or
o9.3% based on a full pension being paid
the growth rate/hurdle rate (which Portafina describes as the amount the new pension 
would need to grow by for the duration of Mr Ms life expectancy in order for it to 
matchthe existing benefits he was giving up, assuming he remained invested in a 
personal pension and made withdrawals via income drawdown) was 3.1%
Portafina said its recommendation was based on the growth rate figure, as it understood 
that Mr M didnt want to buy an annuity.
Underlying investments
Mr Ms attitude to risk was assessed as moderately cautious
the recommended investment split was 40.3% fixed interest, 54.7% equities and 5% 
cash
Risks  various risks [of transferring] were outlined, including:
there being a death benefit of 50% and death in service benefit of 4 x salary the 
existing scheme providing guaranteed pension benefits
the growth needed in the new pension wasnt guaranteed, and if didnt grow sufficiently 
Mr Ms pension benefits would be lower than his existing pension.
Ultimately, Portafina recommended that Mr M transfer his pension to a flexi-access income 
drawdown pension so that he could access the tax-free cash available once he turned 55. 
His funds would be held as cash until then, at which point it would arrange for them to be 
invested. Portafina felt the recommendation was most suitable for Mr M given his 
circumstances and would provide greater benefits than his existing pension.
After receiving the advice Mr M opted out of his occupational pension, with the intention of 
transferring it to the pension Portafina had recommended. However, after hed opted out he 
received some money through an inheritance  so he no longer needed the tax-free cash 
from his pension. The intended transfer didnt therefore go through. However, Mr M wasnt 
able to opt back into the occupational pension.
Mr M complained to Portafina as he felt the advice hed been given was unsuitable. Portafina 
didnt think it had done anything wrong as the advice was based on Mr Ms circumstances at 
the time. In any event, it said Mr M hadnt lost the benefits hed accrued in his occupational 
pension as it didnt get transferred.
Our investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt the 
advice was unsuitable and not in Mr Ms best interests. He felt that because of the advice 
Mr M (by opting out of his occupational pension) lost to the ability to further contribute to the 
pension. Portafina disagreed with our investigator. It felt it acted fairly and reasonably, and in 
Mr Ms best interests.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Portafina has argued, in part, that Mr M didnt suffer a loss because he didnt end up 
transferring his pension. I think this is true to a certain extent. I say this because although 
Mr M opted out of his defined benefit pension he hasnt lost the benefits he accrued up to 
that point because he didnt end up transferring. But whether or not a loss was suffered 
doesnt affect whether or not the advice was suitable. In any event, Mr M might have 
suffered a loss because he lost the ability to remain/opt back into the defined benefit, which 
meant he was unable to accrue further benefits under the scheme.My interpretation of much of what Portafina is saying overall is that its recommendation was 
suitable and in Mr Ms best interests because it met his objectives. I dont think that sort of 
argument is persuasive. Thats because what Mr M wanted might not have been what was 
suitable or in his best interests (equally, what he didnt want might have been what was 
suitable/in his best interests). Portafinas advice should only have been in line with Mr Ms 
objectives if that was suitable and in his best interests in the short and long term  not simply 
because its what he wanted.
There were various rules and standards in place at the time that Portafina had to abide by. 
Two in particular that I think underpin this issue are:
Presumption of unsuitability  Portafina was required when advising Mr M to transfer his 
pension to start by assuming the transfer wont be suitable; and to then only consider it 
suitable if it can clearly show that it was in Mr M's best interests, and
Fairness  Portafina was required to generally treat Mr M fairly and to act in his best 
interests.
While there are other factors, in most cases a key issue in me deciding whether or not 
advice to transfer was suitable is the critical yield, the consumers attitude to risk and their 
capacity for loss.
The suitability report gave three figures in respect of the growth needed in order to match the 
benefits of Mr Ms existing scheme  critical yields of 7.8% and 9.3%, and a growth rate of 
3.1%. Portafina had a responsibility under the Conduct of Business Rules to consider Mr Ms 
attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to 
replicate the benefits being given up. With that in mind, I think the critical yield figures were 
the important ones in determining whether his pension might be worth more or less by 
transferring.
Portafina nevertheless chose to focus on the growth rate rather than the critical yield. Mr Ms 
existing scheme guaranteed him an income for life and provided a spouses benefit in the 
event of his death. I dont think the growth rate figure provided Mr M a direct comparison with 
the benefits he was giving up, that Portafina needed to provide him with.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17 /9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Businesses 
weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, but I 
consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The closest discount rate to the time of the advice that I'm able to refer to was published by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017  and is 2.3% per 
year for one year to retirement and 3.8% for ten years to retirement. I appreciate these 
discount rates were from a time almost a year before the advice was given. However, 
industry standard projected growth rates at the time of the advice were 2% (low growth), 5% 
(medium growth) and 8% (high growth). It can therefore be seen that the discount rates and 
the low and medium growth rate figures are below the critical yields. Even the high growth 
rate is only just above the lowest critical yield.
Portafina said in its suitability report and in its response to our investigator that the 
recommended portfolio had an average return rate of 7.98% over the previous 10 years, so it 
expected sufficient growth on Mr Ms investments in the new pension. However, the portfolio 
of investments included nearly 55% in equities. Equities are risky  Portafina said itself that theyre volatile, and that the fund was category 5 (out of 7  with 7 being the riskiest). Im not 
persuaded that having such a high proportion of funds in equities matched Mr Ms 
moderately cautious risk attitude. So while the suggested portfolio might well have achieved 
the growth Portafina predicted, Im not persuaded the advice to invest in such a portfolio was 
suitable.
I also think Mr Ms capacity for the loss of his pension was very low. The suitability report 
doesnt make mention of any other pensions Mr M had; and it said that after assessing his 
current situation it ascertained that he had no assets other than the ones outlined. I therefore 
think its reasonable to conclude that, apart from the State pension, Mr Ms existing pension 
scheme was his only source of retirement income. So any loss in the value of this pension 
would have a significant impact his retirement income. I dont therefore think he was in a 
position to take the investment risk needed in order to achieve the required growth. And I 
dont think he had sufficient capacity to absorb any loss of his pension provisions.
Given the above, I think it was unlikely the new pension would grow sufficiently in order to 
match the benefits Mr M was giving up. I say this because Mr M had been assessed as 
having a moderately cautious attitude to risk; and Im not persuaded given the discount rates 
and industry standard projected growth rates that any investment that suitably matched this 
profile would grow sufficiently.
Im also concerned with some of the reasons Portafina gave for concluding that the advice 
was suitable. In my view, the overriding reason for the recommendation was that it would 
enable Mr M to access a tax-free lump sum cash payment, which he could then use to pay 
off some debts. However, Mr M couldnt access that cash until he turned 55. So I think any 
advice ought to have been delayed until Mr M could actually access the cash. Also, although 
the suitability report said there werent any other viable options to raise the cash, and that 
the only viable way for Mr M to raise funds was to re-mortgage (which would have defeated 
the object of reducing his debts), I havent seen anything showing that any analysis was 
done in this respect. For example, I appreciate the amount of debt might have been the 
same, but consolidating the debt by re-mortgaging might have reduced the overall outgoings 
(especially considering low interest rates at the time).
Other reasons included that Mr M could vary his income and take ownership and control of 
his pension. But I havent seen any analysis of how likely it was that Mr M would actually do 
this and, more importantly, how this would be in his best interests and make the advice 
suitable.
Portafina made various comments in response to our investigators opinion. I believe Ive 
covered most of them with my comments above. There are nevertheless some points that I 
will specifically address:
Mr Ms debt repayments were more than half of his monthly wage and by clearing them 
he would increase his disposable income and improve his financial situation ready for 
retirement  I think this is a short-sighted approach; it may be that Mr Ms immediate 
financial position would be improved by reducing his debts, but that loses sight of what 
his financial situation would be at/after retirement (which, after all, is what a pension is 
for); and, as Ive said above, Mr M was only 54 at the time so he couldn't have taken the 
tax-free cash at that point anyway
although Mr M was able to meet the monthly debt repayments there was a risk that his 
income may reduce eg due to his overtime being reduced or his wife losing her 
temporary work  I accept this was the case; however, if it happened Mr M could have 
got further advice at that point
reference was made to Mr M feeling that the only way he could clear his debt was by 
taking money from his pension  Portafinas role was to provide suitable advice, not to provide advice based on what Mr Ms feels; what Mr M feels and what was actually 
suitable might well be two different things
based on past performance of the recommended portfolio the average annual rate of 
return over the previous 10 years was 7.98%, which was higher than the hurdle rate and 
critical yield, so Portafina felt it could be matched  I have no reason to disbelieve what 
Portafina says about the past performance, but that argument does somewhat go 
against warnings in the suitability report that past performance is no guarantee of future 
performance
the trustees of Mr Ms existing scheme could have used their discretionary power and 
allow him to opt back into the scheme, so the trustees could have done more to resolve 
this issue and any complaint regarding Mr M re-joining should be directed to the trustees 
 whether Mr M wishes to complain to/about the trustees is his prerogative; the 
complaint Im considering isnt about that though, its about the advice Portafina gave 
Mr M to transfer.
With all the above in mind, I conclude that Portafinas advice to Mr M in September 2018 
was unsuitable.
I havent seen anything which suggests to me that Mr M was an experienced or 
sophisticated investor. So I think its reasonable to conclude that he was reliant on the 
advice he received, and that he would most likely have heeded it. On that basis, I think its 
most likely that if Portafina had provided suitable advice Mr M wouldnt have opted out of his 
existing pension. He wouldnt therefore have found himself in the position he now found 
himself in when he received his inheritance.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome is for Portafina to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms current pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
 
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
Portafina receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Portafina to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Portafina Investment Management Limited to settle this 
matter as outlined under the Putting things right heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman