DRN-3575879
The complaint
Mrs R, who is one of the executors of the estate of Mrs W, complains that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays) caused delays in the administration of the estate. She says Barclays 
insisted a grant of probate would be needed and said they would only correspond with the 
estate through solicitors. Mrs R says this caused long delays and the estate had to pay 
significant solicitors fees to mediate the proceeds of the estate. Mrs R believes these costs 
couldve been avoided if Barclays had accepted the will the executors offered to provide. 
What happened
After Mrs W passed in March 2017 her husband contacted Barclays to tell them. Mrs W held 
some accounts in her own name, and some were in joint names with her husband. Barclays 
changed the address details on all of the accounts held by the late Mrs W to that of her 
husband.
Shortly after this the executors contacted Barclays and explained there was a will in place. 
Barclays told them that a grant of probate would be required, and that because the 
settlement of the estate was now disputed or could be contentious, they would only 
communicate with solicitors. Barclays later sent statements on two of the late Mrs Ws 
accounts to Mr W and to the executors in error.
The estate appointed solicitors to assist with obtaining the grant of probate and subsequently 
the mediation of the estate with the late Mrs Ws husband who had challenged the will. The 
solicitors requested account balances and information from Barclays. Mrs R says the 
balances were not sent to the solicitors in good time for the mediation that took place in 
March 2018.
A grant of probate was issued in May 2020.
Mrs R complained to Barclays who accepted theyd made a mistake in sending statements 
to the late Mrs Ws husband after a non-communication marker had been applied to the 
accounts. They offered a payment of £150 to the executors in this regard. Barclays didnt 
uphold the other complaints made by the estate but apologised for the length of time the 
solicitors and executors spent on the telephone trying to contact them. They explained that 
once the estate became contentious, it was their policy to communicate with solicitors and 
that a grant of probate must be obtained before they could deal with the remaining account 
balances.
The executors of the estate for the late Mrs W didnt agree with the response from Barclays 
and Mrs R brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and thought Barclays hadnt done anything significantly 
wrong. The Investigator thought the offer of £150 to the estate for the error Barclays made in 
sending statements to parties after the accounts had a marker placed on them was a fair 
and reasonable one.
On behalf of the estate, Mrs R didnt agree and asked that an Ombudsman decides their 
complaint. The case has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the executors of the estate will be disappointed, but for very much the same 
reasons as the Investigator, I dont think Barclays did anything significantly wrong. I will now 
explain why.
Dealing with an estate of a loved one is always a challenging time for executors. In this case 
the late Mrs Ws husband was, as far as Barclays were concerned at the time of her passing, 
her next of kin. So, when he told them Mrs W had passed and she had no will, I dont 
consider it was unreasonable for them freeze the accounts in Mrs Ws name and remove her 
name from any joint accounts. 
Shortly after this, the executors of the late Mrs Ws estate told Barclays there was a will in 
place. Although Mrs R feels that this should have been enough to allow Barclays to 
communicate with the executors and provide them with details of the accounts the late Mrs 
W held, Barclays policy was to ask for a grant of probate. This isnt unusual once it becomes 
clear there may be a dispute or some challenge regarding the assets in the estate. One 
party had told Barclays there was no will, whilst another party said there was one. So, 
although I cant tell Barclays what their process should be, I dont consider it unreasonable in 
these circumstances that they asked for a grant of probate and to tell the executors that until 
they had received this they would only communicate through a solicitor. This seems a 
reasonable step for them to have taken to protect the accounts until theyd received 
directions from a Court or obtained a grant of probate.
Barclays accept they sent out statements for the late Mrs Ws accounts to her husband and 
one of the executors in error. It seems to me that this will have had little impact on the estate 
as the balances would have to be disclosed at some point before mediation. Barclays made 
an offer to pay £150 to the executors for this mistake. Ive noted the comments from Mrs R 
that Barclays didnt make the offer, but its in their letter dated 11 May 2020. 
Although Mrs R says the administration of the estate was delayed because Barclays insisted 
on a grant of probate and dealing with the solicitors acting for the estate, Im not persuaded 
this is the case. Ive seen that when they were asked to provide details of the account 
balances to the solicitors, Barclays did so within a reasonable time. Ive seen copies of the 
letters Barclays sent to the solicitors, and although there may be some disagreement about 
whether these were received by the solicitors, the letters Ive seen support they were sent by 
Barclays in good time for the mediation of the estate that took place in March 2018. 
Mrs R says the estate and the solicitors were unaware of a huge account held by the late 
Mrs W until a few days before the mediation meeting. From the letters Ive seen, its likely 
this is the account ending 679. This was a joint savings account prior to Mrs Ws passing. I 
cant be sure why this account wasnt disclosed earlier, but its more likely than not Barclays 
had changed this account into the late Mrs Ws husbands name only. This is likely the 
reason it wasnt initially included in correspondence with the solicitors. But Im satisfied that 
by the time mediation started Barclays had sent all the account information it held for the late 
Mrs Ws accounts, including any joint accounts at the time of her passing.
I appreciate that finding out about this account shortly before mediation wouldve been 
upsetting for the executors of the estate, but I consider it much too speculative to suggest 
that if this had been made available by Barclays earlier, the executors wouldnt have 
incurred the solicitors costs they did. The will was contested by the late Mrs Ws husband, so 
I consider the estate wouldve defended its position regardless of when the information became available. Therefore, although I appreciate the estate has been subjected to costs 
along the way, I dont consider these costs were incurred because of the actions of Barclays. 
Mrs R says that the some of the estate assets depreciated before they could obtain the grant 
of probate in 2020. I acknowledge this will have added to the frustrations of the executors, 
but this delay was the result of the actions of the late Mrs Ws husband in challenging the 
will. Mrs R says they were restricted in the actions they could take because of a Tomlin 
order. Therefore, it seems to me that if there was depreciation of assets this wasnt caused 
by Barclays but was more likely to be the result of the legal dispute in regard to the estate.
I dont have the power to direct Barclays to pay the executors the £150 they offered in their 
letter of 11 May 2020. We can't compensate executors personally, as they only represent an 
estate. This is explained in our website:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience 
However, Mrs R can contact Barclays on behalf of the executors and request this payment if 
she wishes to receive it. I would hope that Barclays would honour this offer.
My final decision
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, Ive decided Barclays Bank UK PLC 
didnt do anything significantly wrong and I wont be asking them to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
W to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman