DRN-2691889
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the amount of compensation Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), has paid 
him for the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) on a credit card.
What happened
In 2019, Mr S complained to BoS that hed been mis-sold PPI on a credit card and it agreed 
to uphold his complaint. It offered him £1,607.72 (after deduction of tax) in compensation for 
the mis-sale. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied that BoS had calculated the amount it had offered him correctly. In 
particular, he thought that the compensatory interest that had been added by BoS in 
reaching the total amount offered was too low.
 
Our adjudicator said she thought BoSs compensation offer had been calculated in the way 
she would have expected it to be and was fair. Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators view 
and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As BoS has already agreed to uphold Mr Ss complaint about the PPI being mis-sold, in this 
decision Im not looking at how the policy came to be sold. I am only looking at whether the 
offer of compensation BoS made was fair.
When a PPI policy has been mis-sold, we expect a business to put the consumer  as far as 
is practical  in the position they would have been in had the mis-sale not taken place. In the 
case of PPI policies attached to credit cards, this will normally involve the business 
reconstructing the consumers credit card account on the basis that no monthly PPI 
premiums had ever been charged to it. And the business then compares the reconstructed 
account to the actual account in order to estimate the additional costs which the consumer 
has borne as a result of the PPI. In doing so we would expect it to apply a simple interest 
rate of 8% (15% before 1 April 1993) for any times the consumer is shown through this 
process to have been out of pocket. 
The reconstruction of the consumers card account without PPI will often require some 
assumptions to be made by the business about what payments the consumer would have 
made had the PPI not been charged. This service has carefully reviewed the bases on which 
different businesses have made these assumptions in the past. And in the case of BoS, we 
have concluded that the basis it uses is fair.
I have reviewed the detailed calculations which BoS has carried out to determine the 
compensation payable to Mr S in this case. This has included looking at the way in which 
BoS has made estimates of any month end balances and associated PPI charges where 
these figures have not been available. And having done so, Im satisfied that BoS has done 
what I would have expected it to do in the given circumstances.
Mr S has said that he thinks BoS hasnt offered him enough compensatory interest in its 
offer. But I think this is because he has misunderstood the way such interest is calculated. In 
the examples Mr S has given to illustrate why he thinks this interest is too low, I can see that 
he is assuming that this interest is applied at an annually compounded rate. But businesses 
are only required to use a simple interest rate to calculate compensatory interest. And this 
interest is only applied for those time periods when the consumer is estimated to have been 
out of pocket because of the mis-sale. So I hope that this will help Mr S to understand why I 
dont think the main reason he has given for not agreeing with the adjudicators view is a 
valid one.
It may also be of further reassurance to Mr S to know that the calculation methodology used 
by BoS does take account of any actual interest which it is estimated to have been charged 
on the PPI premiums, using the compound monthly rate applied to such credit card accounts 
by BoS and other businesses offering them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what Bank of Scotland plc offered in compensation to 
Mr S to settle his complaint about mis-sold PPI is fair. I understand that Mr S has already 
received payment of this offer, so Im not telling Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman