DRN-4330531
The complaint
Mr B has complained that he cancelled a Direct Debit on his Santander UK Plc (Santander) 
current account a number of years ago using his mobile banking app. 
Mr B says he was reviewing his account in March 2022 and noticed that the Direct Debit 
payments that hed requested to be cancelled a number of years prior, were continuing to be 
paid from his account. 
Mr B says that the Direct Debit wasnt showing up in his list of active Direct Debits, even 
though the payments were being taken from his account quarterly. Mr B says that this led to 
him not noticing the payments being taken from his account.
What happened
In its response to the complaint, Santander said that it was unable to find any evidence to 
show that the Direct Debit payment that Mr B has questioned was being taken due to any 
error it had made. Santander said that as the Direct Debit payments had been taken from Mr 
Bs account for a number of years, Santander asked for further evidence to show how Mr B 
had asked for the Direct Debit to be cancelled.
After referring his complaint to this service, our investigators assessed the complaint, and 
they too were unable to conclude that Santander had acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
In summary, the investigator said that Mr B did have a Direct Debit set up with one company 
(E) which he cancelled via the Santander banking app. The last Direct Debit payment he 
made to E was £56.34 on 13 June 2017. 
However, the investigator could see that a new Direct Debit was set up with another 
company (W), with the first payment of £56.34 made on 8 December 2017. These payments 
were paid from Mr Bs account quarterly, although the description given to the payments 
were different to the name of the originator (the company taking the payment). Mr B 
contacted Santander on 5 March 2022 to request that the Direct Debits to W be cancelled, 
which they duly were.
Overall, the investigator was unable to see that Santander had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably as it seems that the Direct Debits had been correctly set up and applied 
according to the Direct Debit instructions it had received. Although the investigator did 
suggest that if Mr B thinks he shouldnt have been charged the Direct Debits by W, he 
should raise this with the company that was taking the payments.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators assessment. In summary, Mr B says that the new 
Direct Debit that W had set up on his account didnt appear in the list of active Direct Debits 
on his account. Mr W says that this was the reason why it took him so long to notice the 
Direct Debit was being taken from his account, as he says, without his knowledge.
As Mr B disagreed with the investigators assessment, the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered everything that has been provided by Mr B and Santander. And having 
done so, I dont uphold this complaint, broadly for the same reasons that the investigator 
gave.
Direct Debit not cancelled
When Mr B initially complained, he said that hed cancelled a Direct Debit a number of years 
ago, but he noticed in 2022, that a Direct Debit was in fact still being taken from his account.
Following the investigators assessment of this complaint, it transpires that Mr B previously 
had three consecutive Direct Debits set up for the same originator: E. They were all paid out 
on a quarterly basis. These were as follows:
Date Started Last Payment Cancelled
13 September 2012 8 June 2013 20 June 2013
24 June 2013 7 March 2017 30 March 2017
21 March 2017 12 June 2017 01 May 2018
Due to how long-ago events took place, its not clear why there were three different Direct 
Debits for the same company - although it seems likely that this was done purely for 
administration purposes by the originator and all three were essentially to cover the same 
payment. It does not appear to be in doubt that Mr B had authorised the company to take the 
quarterly Direct Debits as per the different mandates registered on his account.
Turning now to the issue of cancellation, Mr B says he cancelled the Direct Debits, but says 
they were still being taken from his account up until 2022.
Santander has provided evidence to show that Mr B had cancelled the second Direct Debit 
at the end of March 2017. But it says that its records indicate that Mr B didnt cancel the third 
Direct Debit  which suggests that the originator had cancelled it instead. Again, its not clear 
why a further (final) single payment was taken in June 2017. There mayve been valid 
reasons why the originator did this, for example due to its cancellation terms or if the 
payments were paid in arrears i.e. the June payment was taken because Mr B had asked to 
cancel his subscription during the quarter that the payment related to. 
But ultimately, it seems that Mr B had contacted Santander in 2017 and instructed it to 
cancel the Direct Debit set up against E and the Direct Debit was subsequently cancelled. 
With the last payment being taken by E in June 2017. As such, I cant say that Santander 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably, or had failed to follow Mr Bs instruction to cancel the 
Direct Debit mandate that was set up on his account to make payments to E. Overall, Im 
satisfied that when Mr B has asked Santander to cancel direct debits  it has done so.
Direct Debit Guarantee
Based on what Ive seen here - it seems that the quarterly payments that Mr B noticed in 
2022 were in fact in relation to a different Direct Debit, paid to a different company  this time 
W. Santander has provided the following information in relation to the Direct Debit that was 
set up on Mr Bs account for W:
Date Started Last Payment Cancelled
3 July 2017 2 March 2022 5 March 2022
I can see that the amounts taken by W were for the same amount that E took, and they were 
paid on a quarterly basis too. So the two payments were clearly linked in some way. But neither Mr B nor Santander have been able to provide any insight as to the relationship 
between E and W. 
Nevertheless, I can only reasonably ask Santander to refund the Direct Debit amounts if 
there was an error with the Direct Debit. I say this because the Direct Debit guarantee 
covers errors made in the processing of direct debit payments. It doesnt address disputes 
between the payer and the recipient organisation. On the Direct Debit website, the 
guarantee explains that:
The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to all Direct Debits. It protects you in the rare 
event that there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for instance if a 
payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be 
used to address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation.
But I cant see that there was an error with the Direct Debit. It seems that Santander had 
received a Direct Debit mandate to authorise payments to be made to W from Mr Bs 
account - with the first payment that W took from Mr Bs account was in December 2017. 
And it seems that the payments continued to be taken - unchallenged by Mr B - on a 
quarterly basis for a number of years. So from everything I have seen I cant see that there 
was an error with the Direct Debit i.e. there is nothing to suggest the wrong amount was 
taken or that it was taken on the wrong date.
In one of Mr Bs responses to the investigator, he questioned how the supplier couldve set 
up a new Direct Debit mandate without his authorisation. There are separate considerations 
to the Direct Debit Guarantee here that are relevant here. In general terms, the relevant 
regulations say that a bank is liable if a customer didnt authorise a disputed payment, and 
the customer is liable if they did authorise a disputed payment.
Here, the payments in dispute were set up as a Direct Debit through the Automated Direct 
Debit Instruction Service. As the Direct Debit looks to have been set up online and was 
automated with the details provided by the third-party merchant, that means there isnt a 
paper audit trail of the direct debit here. But thats not unusual, as Direct Debits are 
intended to be a simple and convenient way of setting up payments.
When Santander set up the Direct Debit on this automated basis, it had had no notice of any 
problems. The Direct Debits werent raised as a problem until some years later in March 
2022. I appreciate that is when Mr B noticed a quarterly payment was being taken from his 
account. But technically, Santander did nothing wrong here in setting up the Direct Debit, 
because from what Ive seen - it followed its normal procedures and processed the 
payments in line with the Direct Debit for a number of years. 
Santander was clearly provided with the details necessary to set up the Direct Debit here 
and whoever set this up would have needed access to Mr Bs account information to do so. 
Overall, I dont think it was likely that Santander would have been aware of any issues with 
the Direct Debit when it was set up. It then went onto make regular payments for a number 
of years which would have only supported the validity of the instruction and that this was a 
payment being made with Mr Bs authorisation.
What matters though, is how Santander dealt with Mr Bs concerns about the Direct Debit 
when it was put on notice of them. I can see that the Direct Debit was cancelled on 5 March 
2022, when Mr B raised it with Santander. So I cant see that it would be fair for Santander to 
have to refund Mr B for payments made before a problem was reported to it, when it hadnt 
done anything technically wrong. So that is as much as I can fairly expect of Santander here.Mr B is free to pursue a separate claim against the originator of the payments, but I can only 
consider Mr Bs complaint against Santander under the rules here. Although I would like to 
make it clear to Mr B that Santander has said that, if he can provide Santander with 
evidence from W showing that the Direct Debits were in fact taken in error, then it could look 
into processing an indemnity claim for Mr B. 
Finally, I note that Mr B has said that he never noticed that the monthly payments were 
being made to W. Mr B says the Direct Debit didnt show up under the list of active payments 
on his account. 
Unfortunately, I dont know what the list of active payments did show around March 2022. 
Santander has provided a list of all the past payments for Mr Bs account, and I can see that 
the Direct Debit payments (including the one to W) did show up there. So I cant rule out the 
possibility that the Direct Debit for W was on the list of active payments, but Mr B had 
missed it. But even if it was the case that the Direct Debit was missing from the list of active 
payments, I can see that the payments were showing up on Mr Bs statements. So I cant 
say that Santander had hid the payments from Mr B as and when they were being taken 
from his account. 
So taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Santander has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this matter. It therefore follows that Im unable to say that Santander should 
reimburse Mr B the Direct Debits that have been applied to his account since December 
2017. Although, as outlined above, Santander has said that it would be prepared to consider 
an indemnity claim - if Mr B can provide evidence from the originator showing the payments 
were incorrectly taken. If Mr B wishes to do that, he will need to contact Santander directly. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman