DRN-3659097
The complaint
Mr G complains he was given incorrect information by IG Index Limited (IG).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain 
why:
In considering Mr Gs claim, its important to say its clear there has been a 
misunderstanding between himself and IG. What I need to consider is if IG were at 
fault for the misunderstanding based on the information they were provided. 
Mr G asked IG what currency both Crude Palm Oil (CPO) and Soyabean Meal (SM) 
was in. In confirming they had CPO in both MYR and GBP denominated contracts 
and SM in both GBP and USD denominated contracts, the information IG provided 
was correct.
Mr G has said he wasnt asking for the currencies of denominated contracts, but he 
didnt raise this at the time. Directly after being given this information he told IG he 
was using their spread betting platform which led to them clarifying both CPO and 
SM were only available in GBP. Again, Im satisfied this information was correct.
I understand this wasnt the information Mr G was asking for. He wanted the 
underlying currency for both commodities. But that isnt specifically what he asked 
for.
In the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied the information provided by IG was 
correct in response to the question they were asked.
Ive not seen anything further in the conversation I consider ought reasonably to have 
made IG aware at the time, Mr G either lacked clarity or was unsatisfied with the 
response hed received.
While I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed with my findings, I wont be asking IG to do 
anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about IG Index Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman