DRN-2700880
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Builders Direct SA (BD) carried out a repair on his watch without his 
authorisation.
All references to the insurer Builders Direct SA in my decision include its agents.
What happened
Mr S had a home insurance policy which covered buildings and contents. 
Mr S contacted BD on 13 November 2019 to inform it that his watch had been damaged. A 
claim was registered, and BD appointed a specialist jeweller (J). Mr S watch was sent to J to 
be examined. 
On 19 December, J sent an estimate cost for the watch to be repaired. It said the watch 
would cost £1,150 to repair, which included the policy excess of £150. Cost of the repair was 
approved by BD on 23 December and J was advised to go ahead and repair the watch and 
collect the excess of £150 from Mr S. 
Attempts were made by J to contact Mr S over a few days but there was no response. On 
7 January 2020, Mr S contacted BD and said he was abroad. He said he didnt think the 
repair value of £1,150 was right because hed tried to part-exchange the watch with another 
jeweller and it had offered him £500. He also confirmed he didnt want to pay for anti-glare 
coating on the glass. He didnt want to have the watch repaired. He wanted a cash 
settlement and didnt think he should pay the £150 excess. The watch repair was completed 
on 3 February 2020 and Mr S was asked to pay the excess. He confirmed he wasnt happy 
and made a complaint. 
BD looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the value of the watch was in the 
region of £2,500 to £3,000. The repair cost £1,000 plus the excess of £150. BD said this was 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and it didnt think a cash settlement was 
the most economical way to settle the claim. It confirmed that the excess of £150 would be 
payable. The watch remained with BD.
Unhappy with the final response, Mr S brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold it. She said BD dealt with the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. The watch was repaired and while Mr S wanted to have a cash settlement, she didnt 
think BD had done anything wrong. She said this because BD looked to settle the claim in 
the most economical way and as the repair cost less than the actual value of the watch, this 
was fair and reasonable. She also thought Mr S was required to pay the excess of £150. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide is whether the claim was handled in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. And, in doing so, whether Mr S was treated fairly and reasonably. 
The terms and conditions state:
How we handle your claim 
Lost stolen and damaged items 
After speaking to you or receiving your claim by email we may decide to:
 appoint contractors to repair the damage and manage the process for you 
 find a supplier to replace lost, stolen or damaged items that cannot be repaired 
 make a cash settlement directly into your bank account less any excess shown in 
Your protection summary. Any cash settlement will not be more than what it would 
cost us to repair or replace.
As soon as the claim was registered by Mr S, I can see BD set about appointing an 
approved specialist to assess the damage and provide a cost for this. J said it would cost 
£1,150 and this included the excess of £150 that Mr S would be required to pay.
My understanding is that Mr S wanted a cash settlement from the outset. Ive looked at the 
notes provided by BD on the complaint to see what happened. 
J made attempts to contact Mr S over a number of days. On 23 December 2019, repair for 
the watch was authorised and on the same day, BD tried to contact Mr S by phone but there 
was no answer. A further attempt was made later the same day and again on 24 December. 
On 2 January 2020, BD emailed Mr S that the repair will be carried out and asked if he 
wanted to add the anti-glare coating. If he did, this wasnt covered by the policy and the 
email stated the cost of this repair and the payment that would be required by Mr S. On 
3 January 2020, BD tried to call Mr S again and although the phone was picked up, there 
was no answer. Mr S called BD on 7 January and said he was abroad. The conversation 
was about the anti-glare coating and the watch repair. Mr S wasnt happy about the watch 
being repaired and said he could get a part exchange for his watch from another jeweller for 
£500. 
Having looked through the notes, I can see that BD looked to see what a used watch was 
advertised for on the same jewellers website which Mr S referred to. This showed the value 
to be around £1,895. The terms and conditions state that BD is able to determine how the 
claim is settled. Theres no dispute that as Mr S registered and submitted the claim, he 
wanted the damage to the watch assessed and a claim was in progress. While I appreciate 
Mr S wanted a cash settlement, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, BD was 
required to assess and resolve the claim in the most economical way. One the ways it could 
do this was by paying a cash settlement but that wasnt the only way. The cash settlement 
option would usually only be used if the parts arent available  for example when theyve 
been discontinued. In this case, I can see the watch value was estimated to be between 
£2,500 and £3,000 and the used value advertised on the jewellers website was £1,895. 
So based on either of those values, it seems reasonable and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy that the watch was repaired rather than a cash settlement provided. 
It also seems this was the most economical way to settle the claim. Im not persuaded it was 
more reasonable to offer a cash settlement.I understand the policy excess of £150 is outstanding and the repaired watch is with BD until 
the excess is paid by Mr S. I dont think its unreasonable for BD to request this excess 
before the watch is returned to Mr S as this is within the terms and conditions of the policy. I 
will leave it now to Mr S and BD to decide how they want to settle this aspect going forward.
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that BD settled the claim in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. In settling the claim, Im also satisfied that Mr S 
was treated fairly and reasonably. I dont require BD to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr S complaint against Builders Direct SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman