DRN-3321195
The complaint
Mr I complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim he made on his 
employers group income protection policy. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr I became absent from work with symptoms of anxiety and depression. 
He started a phased return to work in April 2020 but was signed off by his GP again in June 
2020. The deferred period under the policy ended in July 2020. 
Aviva told us that Mr I returned to work, with the support of their rehabilitation team. 
Mr I confirmed that hed returned to work in December 2020. He also told us hed stopped 
working for his employer in April 2021. 
Mr I claimed on his employers group income protection policy. The claim was declined on 
the basis that Mr I hadnt demonstrated that he had significant symptoms which prevented 
him from working. Aviva said the available information didnt support that Mr I was totally 
incapacitated and was unable to perform his insured occupation. They also noted that 
workplace matters were identified as one of the main triggers for Mr Is absence. Mr I 
complaint but Aviva maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mr I 
complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld Mr Is complaint. She thought that 
Aviva should pay the claim from the end of the deferred period together with 8% simple 
interest and £250 compensation. In summary, she didnt think Aviva had fairly declined the 
claim on the basis that the medical evidence didnt support that Mr Is absence was caused 
by issues at work, as opposed to illness. 
Mr I accepted the investigators opinion but Aviva asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. They said that Mr I had suffered from the relevant medical conditions for some 
time and had been able to attend interviews and get a new job in 2019 which wasnt that 
long before his absence started. Aviva said that the medical evidence didnt support the 
payment of the benefit and that Mr I was not being treated for non-work related events or 
depression. As Aviva didnt agree I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Its for Mr I to 
show that he has a valid claim on the policy  not for Aviva to show that he doesnt. 
The policy terms and conditions
In order to make a valid claim Mr I needs to demonstrate that he met the policy definition of 
incapacity. That means that he needs to show that he meets the own occupation definition 
in the policy which is:
The members inability to perform on a full and part time basis the duties of his or her 
job role as a result of their illness or injury. 
Duties are defined as: 
The material and substantial duties that: 
Are normally required to perform the job role for the policyholder, and 
Cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by the member or the policyholder 
Duties do not include the journey to and from work. 
Job role is defined as: 
A members job role with the policyholder at the time the incapacity starts. 
The policy does not cover: 
Absence caused by workplace matters, such as a relationship breakdown, 
workplace demands or failure to make reasonable adjustments are not covered. 
Was Mr Is claim unfairly declined? 
Its not in dispute that Mr I suffered from diagnosed Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) 
and anxiety. The crux of this complaint is whether Aviva fairly concluded that, during the 
relevant period, he didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity.
Im upholding Mr Is complaint because Im satisfied that the medical evidence did 
demonstrate that he met the policy definition of incapacity during the relevant time. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr I had been prescribed medication throughout 2019. Between September 2019 and 
January 2020 he was being prescribed increasing doses of medication. This was in line with 
his consultants recommendation. 
An occupational health report from around the time that Mr I became absent in January 2020 
says that Mr I was fit to work. But, the report noted that he was finding it difficult to commute 
to work and undertake his duties, as well as some activities of daily living. 
A further report from June 2020 said that Mr I wasnt fit to work. This was shortly after Mr I 
had attempted a phased return to work. The report noted that Mr I was unable to cope with 
work due to his levels of anxiety and lack of concentration and focus. It identified some 
shortfalls in the return to work process which were likely to have impacted on Mr Is return to 
work. The report also said Mr I was having counselling and continuing to take medication. Ive also taken into account the wider medical evidence, including the evidence of Mr Is 
consultant psychiatrist. Although this pre-dates the deferred period I think it adds helpful 
context as to the impact of Mr Is medical condition. For example, the reports explain that he 
has obsessional thinking both inside and outside of work. The psychiatrist recommended 
therapy with a specialist in OCD. 
Ive also taken into account a report from Mr Is psychologist, dated July 2020 which is 
shortly before the deferred period ended. The letter explains that Mr I had attended a total of 
11 sessions since November 2019 and that Mr I was currently having fortnightly sessions. 
The report says: 
His OCD is characterised by obsessions in the form of thoughts about him losing 
knowledge of certain things and compulsions in the form of mental actions aimed at 
verifying whether this has happened. His OCD is primarily triggered at work and his 
main therapy goal is to improve his symptoms and functioning so that he is able to 
work again and excel in his career. He also has a chronic history of depression, 
which he partly attributes to the distress and inconvenience caused in his life by 
OCD 
It seems that his OCV is maintained in part by a tendency to catastrophically 
misinterpret a sense of blankness that he experiences when triggered and treats as 
evidence that he has indeed lost his knowledge. This in turn results in a state of 
hypervigilance which service to increase his preoccupation and obsessions and 
makes them seem more out of control and threatening. 
I believe [redacted] would benefit from an additional 10 sessions of therapy to focus 
more on this aspect of this presentation and increase his chances of successfully 
returning to work. 
Based on the evidence Ive been provided with Mr I was suffering with symptoms of a 
recognised medical condition, was receiving medication and treatment from a psychologist 
during the deferred period based on the recommendation of his psychiatrist. So, although 
Mr I wasnt in regular contact with his GP, other than for fitness to work certificates, I dont 
think it follows that he didnt meet the definition of incapacity. 
I also bear in mind that Mr I wasnt seeing his psychiatrist  but he was following the 
recommendations made, including increasing his medication and seeing a specialist 
therapist. So, although Mr I wasnt in contact with his psychiatrist I dont think that is highly 
significant to the outcome of this particular case. 
The psychologist had worked with Mr I for a significant period of time and throughout the 
deferred period. And although she explained that work was the primary trigger I dont think 
that theres any suggestion of specific workplace issues which were impacting him, such as 
a breakdown in the working relationship. I also dont think that the overall evidence suggests 
that the primary issue for Mr I was workplace demands or a lack of reasonable adjustments. 
The evidence from the psychologist, which is from the deferred period, together with the 
wider supporting evidence from the psychiatrist suggests that Mr Is condition impacted him 
to such an extent that his condition caused obsessive thoughts and consequently increased 
his levels of hypervigilance, depression and preoccupation. Bearing in mind how this fitted 
together with Mr Is increasing levels of medication and therapy I dont think Aviva fairly 
concluded Mr I didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity. I think Mr I had adequately demonstrated that he met the policy definition of incapacity on 
the basis of the medical evidence hed provided. If Aviva had underlying concerns about the 
impact of the condition on his overall ability to do his job, or the strength of the medical 
evidence presented, it was open to them to refer Mr I for an independent medical 
examination once the claim had been accepted for a more in-depth report. But, on the basis 
of the evidence provided, I think Mr I had adequately demonstrated he had a valid claim. 
I appreciate that Mr I feels that Avivas decision to terminate his claim led to his employment 
coming to an end in April 2021. However, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to persuade me 
that Avivas decision to end the claim directly impacted on Mr Is decision to end his 
employment. Mr I told us that since leaving he continues to have had symptoms of OCD 
which have impacted his ability to work. Im really sorry to hear that and I have a great deal 
of empathy for his position. However, once Mr I left the policyholders employment, he was 
no longer covered by the group income protection scheme. So, I think the fairest way for 
Aviva to put things right is to pay the benefit for the time that Mr I was off work.
Mr I has raised concerns about the tax implications of receiving the policy benefit at this 
point in time. I understand that hes worked for a different company since leaving his 
employer and is not working at the moment. Based on the evidence I have available to me 
Ive not seen evidence that there would be a detriment to Mr I in relation to the tax 
implications. And Mr I would need to address any further issues in relation to his taxable 
income with HRMC.   
Putting things right
I think Aviva needs to put things right by paying: 
The policyholder the policy benefit from the date that the deferred period ended to 
the date that Mr I returned to work
Mr I 8% simple interest per annum backdated to the dates each payment should 
have been made. If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr I how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Mr I £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by his claim 
being unfairly declined. This has caused him considerable emotional upset and also 
financial hardship as he wasnt receiving the policy benefit when he should have 
been. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Is complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman