DRN-4285688
The complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) closed down one 
of his credit card accounts and raised the interest rate on his other credit card account.
What happened
Mr S had two credit cards with AESEL, the first (Card 1) he took out in 2005, and the second 
(Card 2) in 2021. In October 2022, in respect of Card 1, AESEL said it was dormant, as no 
transactions had taken place on the account for over 12 months. It sent Mr S a statement 
with a notice advising that the account would be closed after two months unless he used the 
card. He was sent a further statement warning that the account would be closed within a 
month, in November 2022. In December 2022, no activity having taken place on the account, 
the card was cancelled.
Subsequently Mr S was advised by AESEL that in respect of Card 2 it was increasing the 
interest rate on the card following a review of his account.
Mr S objected to both one card being cancelled and the interest rate being raised on the 
other card. AESEL said it had given Mr S adequate warning and it was entitled to take the 
relevant actions under the terms and conditions of both cards.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our  Investigator said that as AESEL acted 
in accordance with the terms and conditions in respect of both cards, its actions were fair 
and reasonable.
Mr S responded that he had had no notice or statements from AESEL in respect of the card  
being cancelled. He feels that it should have told him about this in the course of a number of 
telephone conversations he had with it. And that it should have written to him by registered 
post. He feels that AESEL didnt take account of his disability, of which it was well aware.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
card 1
In respect of this card, the terms and conditions of the account are that it can be ended by 
either party without giving a reason. AESEL advised Mr S that as the card had been dormant 
for over 12 months as of October 2022, it would be cancelling the card to protect Mr S from 
fraudulent activity. It sent him a further notice in November 2022 warning him the card would 
be cancelled after a month unless he used it in that time. It also checked Mr Ss registered 
email address (which concurs with the email address we hold for him) and sent him emails 
advising him that his statements were ready to view.
Whilst I note Mr Ss assertion that he didnt receive any statement or notice about this 
account, the statements/notices were all sent to his registered address and emails were also 
sent. I dont think AESEL should have been expected to send him letters by registered post 
in respect of this issue. As regards his expectation that AESEL should have raised this issue 
with him when he had a number of phone calls with its advisers, I assume he means the 
calls he made in respect of a different complaint. But I dont think that this would be the sort 
of issue I would expect to be raised in calls about another matter. It would likely be noted on 
his record as a dormant card duly cancelled.
I note Mr Ss comments that he feels discriminated against. However AESEL was acting 
within the terms and conditions of the account and Ive not seen any evidence that he was 
treated any differently from other customers in the same position. I understand that he is 
vulnerable, because of his disabilities. But I dont think that the methods of communication 
used (by post and email) were inappropriate for him.
card 2
Under its terms and conditions AESEL could make changes to the rate of interest, both 
personal (as in this case) or where the base rate has changed . It said it did this highlighting 
in the terms and conditions where we have good reason to think that a change in your 
circumstances means that the risk you might not be able to repay us has increased. 
I understand that Mr S was upset by this, he tells us hes not missed any payments. 
However credit card companies will review their customers credit standing from time to time 
to assure themselves that they will still be able to repay their credit. It appears this is what 
happened here and as result AESEL decided there was an increased risk and increased the 
interest rate. Under the terms and conditions of the account its entitled to do this.
It advised Mr S that he didnt have to accept the interest rate  rise. He could continue to 
repay the amount owing on the card at the old interest rate. However the account itself 
would be closed and the card would no longer be able to be used.
I dont think that Mr S disputes having received the notice about this card. I think AESEL 
acted fairly and reasonably within the terms and conditions of the account.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman