DRN-2652495
The complaint
Mr B complains Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took seven instalment loans between October 2012 and August 2016. Ive included
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan 
NumberLoan Amount Received Date Actual Repayment Date
1 £250 12/10/2012 28/03/2013
2 £250 20/09/2014 30/09/2014
3 £500 02/10/2014 31/10/2014
4 £500 25/07/2016 29/07/2016
5 £500 27/07/2016 12/10/2016
6 £400 04/08/2016 22/08/2016
7 £500 26/08/2016 12/10/2016
The adjudicators who assessed the complaint didnt think it was wrong to have granted any 
of the instalment loans. They thought that the checks completed by Lending Stream for 
loans 2 to 6 were proportionate and from what they could see they werent irresponsibly lent. 
For loans 1 and 7, the adjudicators considered that Lending Stream ought to have 
completed further checks before lending. But they didnt see anything to suggest further 
checks would have led to a different lending decision.  
Mr B has asked for the case to be reviewed further. So as no agreement has been reached, 
the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess Mr Bs applications for borrowing to check if he could afford 
to pay back the amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way 
which was proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks could have taken 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the 
repayments and Mr Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. 
But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should have done more to establish that 
any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include: 
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B.
At the time loan 1 was lent, Lending Stream was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT). The OFT required businesses to lend responsibly, this meant Lending Stream 
needed to check that Mr B could afford to repay his loans sustainably.
The guidance states that, creditors should take reasonable steps to assess borrowers likely 
ability to be able to meet repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner. 
And it states that, this is likely to involve more than solely assessing the likelihood of the 
borrower being able to repay the credit in question. 
And when loans 2 to 7 were lent, the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are 
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
loan 1
Loan 1 (£250) was due to be repaid through six monthly instalments, with a highest 
repayment of £125. Mr Bs declared income (£1,500) and expenditure (£800) suggested the 
loan repayments would be affordable.  
However, Lending Stream also carried out a credit check which suggested Mr B had 
encountered some difficulty repaying credit not long before he applied for this loan. So, like 
our adjudicators, I think Lending Stream ought to have completed more checks before it lent, 
such as verifying what it had been told by Mr B in order to ensure he loan could repay the 
loan sustainably.    
But from the information weve been provided, Ive not seen anything significant to suggest 
Lending Stream shouldnt have lent. Im aware Mr B had an outstanding short-term loan with 
another lender. I dont think this though was enough to suggest, for example, that Mr B was 
having problems managing his money which mightve cast doubt over the lending decision. So, overall, I dont think it was wrong for Lending Stream to have lent. 
loans 2 and 3
I can see that Mr B appeared to encounter minor difficulty repaying loan 1, incurring a late 
fee of £12. There was however, a significant break of around 18 months before he returned 
to Lending Stream for further lending. I think it was reasonable therefore for Lending Stream 
to consider loan 2 as the beginning of a new lending relationship.  
Lending Stream asked Mr B about his normal expenditure and his credit expenses, so hed 
been given the opportunity to declare expenses for all his credit commitments. And for loan 3 
I can see that Lending Stream made an adjustment as Mr B didnt appear to declare any 
expenses. 
For these two loans, the income and expenditure information that Lending Stream used in 
assessing the loan applications left Mr B with a disposable income of over £1,000. So, I think 
the monthly instalments (the highest of which was £270) wouldve seemed affordable and 
sustainable.
Lending Stream also completed a credit check for loans 2 and 3 but they didnt appear to 
reveal any significant adverse information. Several defaults did appear in the credit results 
but the most recent of these was well over a year prior to the lending. So, I dont think this 
wouldve been particularly concerning.  
Considering everything, I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to have provided these two 
loans.  
loans 4 to 7
Mr B didnt seem to have any problems repaying loans 2 or 3, each loan was repaid well 
before the scheduled repayment date. There was then over nine months before he 
approached Lending Stream again for additional loans. I agree with our adjudicators that 
loan 4 can fairly be said to be the beginning of a further lending relationship  and that 
Lending Stream could consider the applications afresh, with loan 4 not being the 
continuation of the previous period of borrowing. 
Thinking about the level of lending and it being still relatively early in the third lending 
relationship, I think the checks for loans 4, 5 and 6 went far enough.
Lending Stream completed a credit check for each of these loans and asked Mr B about his 
expenditure, including his credit commitments. The credit results seemed to indicate there 
had been some improvement in Mr Bs financial circumstances by this point, with nothing 
adverse being revealed. His declared income had also increased and looking at the 
expenditure Lending Stream used to assess the loans  including an extra buffer for loans 4 
and 6  Mr B appeared to be left with quite a significant amount of disposable income after 
repayment of the monthly instalments he needed to pay for each loan. 
Looking at all this together, I dont think that Lending Stream was wrong to lend. I think its 
checks were proportionate and suggested loans 4, 5 and 6 were affordable and sustainable.    
Loan 7 (a further £500) was the fourth loan in around a month. And with loan 5 outstanding 
the highest repayment that Mr B needed to pay had increased to around £423. Whilst the 
information Lending Stream based it checks on indicated there had been no real change in 
Mr Bs disposable income (suggesting the loan would be affordable) I think these circumstances indicated that Lending Stream ought to have completed a full review of Mr Bs 
financial circumstances. This wouldve enabled Lending Stream to gain a full understanding 
of his actual financial position to ensure the loan was affordable and able to be repaid 
sustainably.
The information weve been provided with though doesnt indicate Mr B wasnt able to repay 
loan 7 sustainably had further checks been completed. I can see that Mr B had an 
outstanding short-term loan with a different lender, but I dont think this was enough to 
suggest he was in financial difficulties and unable to manage his money. 
It is of course possible that, had Mr B continued to borrow from Lending Stream, then further 
checks (or even the pattern of lending itself) may have indicated that it shouldnt have lent 
further loans. But from what Ive seen, considering Mr B took four loans in this lending period 
and these loans appeared affordable, I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to have 
provided them.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about his loans. I appreciate this
will be disappointing for Mr B. But I hope that hell understand why Ive reached the findings
that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman