DRN-3313403
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the service shes received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, surrounding her not being able to log in to her account online or via the app.
What happened
In early 2021, Miss C noticed that she was unable to log into her Barclays credit account via 
the app or online, which are her preferred methods of accessing the account. Miss C raised 
a complaint with Barclays about this, who noticed that there was a discrepancy with Miss Cs 
address on her credit account which meant that the account wasnt being included in Miss 
Cs online account portfolio. Barclays corrected this discrepancy, apologised to Miss C for 
what had taken place, and made a payment of £25 to Miss C by way of compensation.
Following Barclays corrective action, Miss C continued to have difficulties logging into her 
credit account online. This meant that Miss C was late with payments, which was then 
reported by Barclays to her credit file. Miss C wasnt happy about this, and she also wasnt 
happy that while she was considered as being in a state of persistent debt by Barclays, she 
hadnt been simultaneously classified as being vulnerable, such that appropriate levels of 
support had been offered to her. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Barclays had undertaken 
reasonable efforts to help Miss C resolve her login issues and noted that they continued to 
offer Miss C support in this regard. Our investigator also confirmed to Miss C that Barclays 
were willing to note that she was a vulnerable customer if Miss C gave her permission to 
Barclays for them to do so. Because of this, our investigator felt that the way that Barclays 
had and continued to respond to Miss Cs complaint already represented a fair resolution for 
what had taken place, and so they didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Miss C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it would have been frustrating for Miss C to have not been able to 
access her Barclays credit account via her preferred channels. 
In such circumstances, it would be expected that Barclays would have worked with Miss C to 
have determined the cause of her login issues and to have taken necessary corrective 
action, as well as that they would have apologised to Miss C for any issues or errors that 
might have contributed to her not being able to access her account in that manner, and to 
have paid compensation to Miss C if appropriate.
Barclays appear to have done that here. I say this because they were able to confirm that a 
discrepancy in how Miss Cs address was recorded by them on her credit account was the 
reason that Miss C wasnt able to log in to her credit account online, and they took the 
corrective action of updating the address on that account so that it was aligned with the 
address they held for Miss C on her other Barclays account. Additionally, Barclays did 
apologise to Miss C for what had happened, and they did make a payment of £25 to 
compensate Miss C for any inconvenience caused.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being so by someone else. But the £25 
that Barclays have paid to Miss C does seem fair to me here, given the circumstances of this 
complaint, and in consideration of the fact that Miss C wasnt restricted from accessing her 
account entirely, but only via online channels. 
Its also notable that Miss C was able to have made monthly payments on her account via 
alternative channels, and because of this I dont feel that Barclays can reasonably be held 
accountable for any late or missed payments on the account as Miss C would like. 
Miss C has stated that shes still unable to log in to her account via the app or online. It isnt 
clear why this would be that case, and its notable that Barclays only have record of one 
attempt by Miss C to access her account in this manner, which was unsuccessful because of 
incorrect log in details inputted at the time of the attempt.
However, Barclays have offered Miss C continuing support in this regard and have provided 
Miss C with a telephone number to contact if she continues to experience issues moving 
forwards. This seems reasonable to me, and its difficult to consider what more Barclays can 
do further to this point.
Miss C has also confirmed that shes received notice from Barclays that her account is 
considered as being in a state of persistent debt, and feels that it should be consequential 
from this point that she should be considered as being a vulnerable customer such that 
appropriate levels of support should be offered to her by Barclays.
While it can be the case that many customers who accounts are considered as being in a 
persistent debt should also be considered as being vulnerable customers, this isnt 
necessarily the case, and it wouldnt be expected that a business such as Barclays would 
make an assumption that a customer is vulnerable without first discussing that point with that 
customer. 
In this instance, Barclays have confirmed that they can note that Miss C is a vulnerable 
customer on their systems if Miss C gives her permission to do so, which would potentially 
allow more tailored forms of support to be made available to Miss C. Again, this seems 
reasonable to me, and if Miss C hasnt already contacted Barclays in this regard then I would 
encourage her to do so.
Finally, Miss C has stated that shes unhappy with how Barclays have handled her complaint 
about her login issues. However, as the Financial Ombudsman Service, this service can only 
consider complaints about financial activities. And given that how a business handles a 
complaint (even a complaint about financial activities) isnt itself a financial activity, this 
means it isnt within the remit of this service to consider this aspect of Miss Cs complaint.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Miss in how theyve handled the situation surrounding her having difficulties logging 
into her account, including the corrective action that Barclays took and the apology and 
payment of compensation that theyve already issued to Miss C about this.
I realise that this might not be the outcome Miss C was wanting, but it follows from the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at 
this time. I hope that Miss C will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman