DRN-3865296
The complaint
Mrs P and her father, Mr P, complain that Society of Lloyds has declined their claim for 
malicious damage and water damage to their let property, on the basis that they are said to  
have no insurable interest in the property. The policy is underwritten by a Lloyds 
underwriter, though for convenience I shall refer to Lloyds throughout.
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs Ps husband, Mr P1, attended a property auction, on behalf of Mrs P and 
Mr P. He successfully bid for a property and paid a deposit from his account. Subsequently 
he asked if the sale of the property could be registered in Mrs Ps and Mr Ps name, or in all 
three names. The seller wouldnt agree and insisted the purchase went ahead in Mr P1s 
name only. The balance of the purchase price was provided by funds from Mrs P and Mr P.
Mrs Ps and Mr Ps broker was asked to arrange insurance of the property and as Mrs P and 
Mr P had a portfolio of properties, the property was added to the existing insurance, in their 
names.
The property was registered in Mr P1s name alone. The parties didnt consider transferring 
it into their names as Mr P1 managed the properties in any event and they are all part of the 
same family. Mr P1 later set up tenancy agreements with him named as the landlord.
In August 2019 the property was broken into. Substantial damage was done to the property, 
pipes were cut and the property was flooded. Loss adjusters were appointed, but after 
review of the policy situation, declined the claim altogether. This was because Lloyds said 
that Mrs P and Mr P did not have an insurable interest in the property. Lloyds maintained 
this position despite having obtained an opinion from its solicitors that Mrs P was likely to 
have an equitable interest in the property. It said that had it been approached for insurance 
in Mr P1s name alone, it would likely not have issued a policy, as he had two recent (albeit 
satisfied) County Court Judgements on his record.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that as Mrs P had 
provided the majority of the purchase price, and as the intention had been shown to register 
the sale in her and Mr Ps name, she had an equitable interest in the property.
Lloyds didnt agree. It said that underwriters concerns did not appear to have been given 
appropriate credence. It further said that the parties are sophisticated insurance buyers, well 
aware of the importance of making accurate statements when it comes to insurance.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has said the legal view was not to hand at the time of their carrying out an 
investigation. It says the evidence it had to hand at that stage was sufficient to decide that 
the policyholder did not have an insurable interest. In particular it said:
Mr P1s verbal testimony at the time was that the policy should have been in his name 
and the fact that it wasnt was a mistake.
Rent was paid by the tenant into his sole bank account.
Mr P1 is noted as the sole landlord.
The property was bought by Mr P1 in his sole name at auction. He is named as sole 
proprietor.
The policy in question insures other properties owned by the policyholders.
They are sophisticated consumers, on the basis they hold a substantive property 
portfolio (5 other properties) and Mr P1 manages their business affairs, so would be 
aware of the implications of any incorrect insurance cover. Mr P1 sought a quote and 
took out the cover via a phone call to the broker. He had the opportunity here to explain 
ownership of the property.
The broker was working for his client.
Mr P1s verbal testimony in his signed witness statement noted that the property was 
bought in his name solely but his wife conducted the transaction. Notably he does not 
take the opportunity to explain that his wife purchased the property with him for their joint 
interest. He also noted that I own the property and it is insured by my wife and father-in -
law.
Mr P1s witness statement also notes that he insures other properties with the same 
broker. This is further indication that Mr P1 and his family are sophisticated consumers.
Underwriters have confirmed that Mr P1 would not have been offered coverage in his 
own right as he had two satisfied CCJs. This sat outside underwriters acceptable risk 
profile.
I note Lloyds comment about the legal view not having been available during its 
investigation. But it was available shortly before Lloyds published its findings and it could 
have made further representations. The legal view is worth setting out in summary. That is 
that underwriters position in this matter depends on whether Mrs P can prove that she 
personally paid the £62,000 towards the propertys purchase price. If documentary evidence 
is provided they considered that Mrs P would have good prospects (in the region of 60-65%) 
of making out a resulting trust and therefore an insurable interest in the property.
On the question of misrepresentation, the solicitors said If [Mrs P] did have an insurable 
interest in the Property by reason of a resulting trust, it would be difficult to argue that there 
had been a material misrepresentation. There are no questions about type of ownership 
within the policy documentation provided and the fact that she may have had an equitable 
rather than the legal interest, seems unlikely to have been material.
I think Mrs P and Mr P have adequately explained why the purchase went ahead in Mr P1s 
sole name. This was because he attended the auction, and paid the deposit. I have seen the 
email exchanges between Mr P1 and his solicitor where he asked for the property to be 
transferred into Mrs Ps and Mr Ps name or into all three names. The seller refused this.So on the basis that the family had properties in Mr P1s name and also in Mrs Ps and 
Mr Ps name and as Mr P1 was going to be managing the properties it was in my view 
understandable that the property remained in Mr P1s sole name, and that he then issued 
the tenancy agreements in his name. The claim only occurred some five months after the 
purchase.
I have seen evidence that Mrs P transferred £40,000 from her account directly to the solicitor 
acting in the purchase. Ive also seen evidence that £24,000 was transferred from 
(presumably) a deposit account into Mrs Ps and Mr Ps joint account, and transferred 
directly to the aforesaid solicitor. Its therefore clear that Mrs P provided the bulk of the 
purchase monies, and Mr P likely also provided a proportion. In light of the email exchanges 
at the time, I dont think it can be shown that Mrs Ps funds were intended as a gift to Mr P1. 
So I think Mrs P (and probably Mr P) had an equitable interest in the property. And it follows, 
an insurable interest.
Ive considered the question of misrepresentation by or on behalf Mrs P. As Lloyds solicitors 
also noted, Im not sure what relevance this has. Lloyds hasnt shown us that the ownership 
of the property in a trust or outright has any bearing on the insurance position.
As for Mr P1s assertion that the property should have been insured in his name, I note 
Lloyds view on this. However while it has said it wouldnt have offered Mr P1 insurance in 
his own right, there appears to be no such bar on Mrs P or Mr P. I think I have to look at it 
from the perspective of the policy, and its policyholders as it exists. There is here a policy in 
the names of Mrs P and Mr P to which the property in question was added. Mrs P has an 
insurable interest in the property by dint of her having provided the bulk of the purchase 
price. I dont think that is the sort of situation she would have been expected to disclose on 
setting up the policy as I cant see that it materially affects the cover.
So I think Mrs P1 and likely Mr P, has an insurable interest in the property. Lloyds should 
reinstate the cover and reconsider the claim.
Putting things right
Lloydss should reinstate the cover for the property and reconsider the claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
I uphold the compliant and require Society of Lloyds to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting it right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman