DRN-2519993
The complaint
Mr F complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC gave him incorrect advice about a 
chargeback. Mr F relied on this advice and spent the refund and doesnt feel its reasonable 
for Tesco to now re-debit the sum from his account.
What happened
Mr F made an online purchase for an item costing £195. Due to the Covid-19 restrictions Mr 
F wasnt able to use the purchase so he contacted the retailer to ask for a refund but it 
refused. Mr F then contacted Tesco to raise a chargeback raised a chargeback claim with 
Tesco. Tesco credited Mr Fs credit card with the £195 on 5 May 2020.  
However, on 6 June, the retailer also refunded Mr F the cost of the purchase price. Mr F 
called Tesco and told them what had happened and asked what he needed to do. Initially 
the call handler said it was probable Tesco would re-debit the money but after she checked, 
she told Mr F that, if the retailer didnt reclaim the money within 45 days, then hed be 
entitled to both refunds. The money wasnt reclaimed so in July, Mr F moved it to his 
personal account and has now spent it on home improvements.
In September Mr F noticed that Tesco had re-debited the £195 from his credit card. He says 
he relied on what he was told and doesnt feel that its reasonable now for Tesco to ask him 
to repay it. 
Tesco agreed the call handler had given Mr F the wrong information but said, under the 
chargeback rules, a consumer wasnt allowed to be credited twice for any refund so it was 
required to re-debit the £195 from Mr Fs account. It noted that the terms and conditions for 
Mr Fs credit card provided that, where money was wrongly refunded, it could be reclaimed. 
As Mr F had signed up to these conditions when he opened his account, it didnt agree it had 
acted unfairly. It felt the £35 it had already paid for its mistake was reasonable.
Our investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint. He said Mr F had waited the 45 days as hed been 
told and then, believing the money was his, had used it to redecorate his home. Hed taken 
the terms and conditions into account but noted that they said Tesco may recover the 
money, but not that it was inevitable. As the money had been used for decorating, our 
investigator didnt feel it would be possible for Mr F to return the goods to fund the refund.  
money. He felt Mr F was entitled to rely on what hed been told by the case handler and 
recommended that Tesco return the £195 to Mr F, less the £35 compensation if this had 
already been paid.
Tesco disagreed. It relied on the terms and conditions that allowed it to reclaim the money 
but, in addition, it felt it was unfair for Mr F to be allowed to keep both refunds. It said it had 
paid Mr F compensation and allowed him an interest free three-month period to make the 
refund. It felt this was reasonable and that if Mr F was allowed to keep both the refund and 
the chargeback hed be in a much better position than he should have been. It asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint as Ill now explain.
Both Tesco and Mr F agree that Tesco wrongly advised Mr F that hed be able to keep the 
chargeback, as well as the refund, if the money wasnt reclaimed within 45 days. This was 
incorrect as Tesco acknowledges. The question, therefore, is whether the steps Tesco has 
taken so far are sufficient to put this right and to address the impact of its mistake on Mr F.
The rules of the chargeback scheme are set by the card provider, but Tesco like any other 
card issuer, has to comply with them. And those rules say that a card holder cant be 
compensated twice for a chargeback. For that reason, Im satisfied Tesco was right in re-
debiting the £195 once it was told that the merchant had also made a refund to Mr F.
Ive also taken into account the terms and conditions of Mr Fs account that give Tesco a 
right to reclaim money thats been wrongly credited, although its fair to say this doesnt say 
that it will do so in every case, only that it may.
However, the position is Mr Fs case is different to a simple mistake. When Mr F realised 
hed had both the chargeback and a refund he called Tesco to let them know and to ask 
what he needed to do.
Ive listened to the call and Ive heard that, after telling Mr F initially that Tesco would 
probably reclaim the chargeback, the call handler then went to get further advice and came 
back to  advise Mr F that, if the merchant didnt reclaim the money within 45 days, it was his 
and he could keep both the refund and the chargeback. The advice was very clear and was 
repeated several times. I dont consider there was much more that Mr F could reasonably 
have done at the time. And unsurprisingly, after the 45 days had expired, Mr F spent the 
money, as hed been told he could.
Tesco says its unfair for Mr F to be compensated twice for the same transaction. In general 
Id agree but, in this case, I think it would be unfair to penalise Mr F for following the very 
clear advice he was given. Mr Fs explained that he used the money to redecorate his home 
so the money has been spent and I think it would be difficult for Mr F to refund this now 
without causing him some hardship. I also dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable 
to ask him to do so in the circumstances.
Ive seen Tesco says Mr F will be in a better position than he would have been. I agree thats 
he is in a better position than he would have been if the chargeback had been handled 
correctly but I dont consider that hes in a better position than he was after the call in June 
when he was given the incorrect advice.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above I consider that Tesco should now pay Mr F £195 
compensation, less the £35 its already paid. That will put Mr F in the position that he would 
have been in if the wrong advice hadnt been given. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance Plc to 
pay Mr F £196 less the £35 already paid to reflect the upset and inconvenience caused by 
its mistake.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman