DRN-1644982
Complaint
Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs H bought the PPI in 2002 whilst applying for a new credit card. Our adjudicator who 
looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold shouldnt be upheld. Mrs 
H asked for an ombudsman's final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Mrs H says the PPI was added without her permission and she didnt know she had it. But 
Im afraid I was sent a copy of her credit card application which shows Mrs H was given an 
obvious choice to either have or not have PPI. Mrs H selected the box to add the PPI and 
she signed the form. I also think the PPI would have shown up on her monthly credit card 
statements, so I think she agreed to the policy and has since forgotten she did this.
Barclays says it probably recommended the PPI to her. This means it had an additional duty 
to ensure this type of cover was suitable for her. Overall, I think it probably was.
This is because Ive looked at Mrs Hs situation. I think she was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Looking at the 
work she did, I think any sickness protection she had with her job would have been quite 
moderate. On the other hand, the PPI policy would have paid out 10% of her outstanding 
credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. This wouldve been in addition 
to any other means she had at that time. I also see that the cost was 79p per £100 
outstanding on the card, which I think would have been affordable for Mrs H.
So I think this policy was suitable for her.
Barclays still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mrs H 
could make an informed choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI. The 
documentation Mrs H used appears to have included some information about the PPI policy 
included with it. So Mrs H could have read that. And overall I think she probably had enough 
information to decide what she wanted to do. I can see ways in which the form could have 
been set out more clearly, but overall this doesnt change what I think.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but I think the evidence shows she chose the PPI policy and 
would have known it wasnt something she needed to have. This means Im not upholding 
her mis-sale complaint.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay anything 
back to Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman