DRN-4054129
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as L has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined 
its business interruption insurance claim. 
 
Mr T, a director of L, has brought the complaint on Ls behalf through a representative. For 
ease of reading, I will refer to L throughout. 
What happened
L held business interruption insurance with Allianz for four premises. L claimed on its policy 
after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. Allianz declined Ls claim as it didnt think there was cover under the policy. 
L complained to Allianz as it thought there should be cover under the extension for 
prevention of access and loss of attraction. 
 
Allianz accepted that the worldwide pandemic was an emergency but didnt think it was an 
emergency event within one mile of Ls premises which is what was required by the clause 
in the policy in order to trigger cover. Allianz said that the High Court in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case said that an incident 
was not synonymous with a danger or emergency, and this supported Allianzs position. 
 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, L brought its complaint to our service. L said it had been 
required to close by the Government from 20 March 2020 due to Covid-19. It said that there 
is no definition of emergency event within the policy, which Allianz could have included if it 
had chosen to. L said Allianz appeared to have accepted that an emergency event is not 
the same as an event or incident but seemed to be relying on the fact that the emergency 
event needed to have occurred within one mile of Ls premises. L said that there were 
outbreaks of Covid-19 at hospitals within one mile of its premises which meant there were 
emergency events within the required radius. 
 
L said that when taking out the policy a reasonable person would consider there to be cover 
for what had happened and if the wording was so unclear so as to require consideration by 
the courts then the benefit should be given in favour of the insured. L thought our service 
should uphold this complaint as it is fair and reasonable to do so. 
 
Following the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case, L contacted Allianz again. L 
said that the High Court made a clear distinction between an incident and an emergency 
event; and the Supreme Court recognised that Covid-19 was an emergency event 
which was capable of triggering a claim under the denial of access clause. L said that its 
broker acknowledged that the Supreme Court overturned decisions on other clauses on the 
basis that it was wrong to attach weight to the words incident and event. Allianz said the 
judgment didnt impact the outcome of the claim and its decision to decline the claim 
remained. 
 
Our investigator looked into Ls complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. L reiterated 
that it believed cover was available under the clause for prevention of access and loss of 
attraction. 
 
L said that the High Court did find that this wording was indicative of a localised incident but 
went on to say at paragraph 417 that this would not be the case if it constituted an 
emergency which endangered life. L said that the Supreme Courts comments make the 
High Courts comments look inconsistent and that this was highlighted by Lord Mance in an 
arbitration hearing - Certain Policyholders v China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co. Ltd. Lord 
Mance said, I therefore doubt whether the Divisional Court could or would have 
approached the matter as it did in paragraphs 466 and 467 had it had the benefit of the 
Supreme Court's analysis. 
 
Our investigator considered the points L had raised but still thought Allianz had acted 
reasonably in declining Ls claim. L did not agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
While Ls complaint was waiting to be considered by an Ombudsman, L got in touch to raise 
further points in light of the courts decision in Corbin and King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc 
[2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) (Corbin and King). L said that this judgment was consistent with 
the points it had made and therefore believed its complaint should be upheld. 
 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 February 2023 where I explained why I 
didnt intend to uphold this complaint. I said: 
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ls business. However, I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant part of the clause for prevention of access and loss of attraction covers: 
 
closure or sealing off of the Premises or any right of way by the police, fire 
brigade or other statutory authority or local or transport authority due to an 
emergency event at the Premises or within a radius of 1 mile of the Premises, 
which is not otherwise insured under b.i. to iv. above, which 
a. prevents or hinders the use of the Premises or access thereto or, where 
the Premises forms part of a larger complex development or shopping 
centre, prevents or hinders the use of the entire complex development or 
shopping centre or access thereto; or 
b. causes a reduction in the number of people using the Premises or, where 
the Premises forms part of a larger complex development or shopping 
centre, causes a reduction in the number of people using the same; 
 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that there was a closure of Ls premises by a statutory 
authority. Therefore, what remains for me to consider is whether that closure was due to an 
emergency event within a radius of one mile of Ls premises. As L has said, emergency 
event is not defined within the policy, so I have started off by considering the meaning of an 
emergency event. As L is also aware, the starting point for interpreting a contract is to 
consider what a reasonable policyholder with the relevant background knowledge would 
have understood the language in the contract to mean. This is tested as at the time the 
parties entered into the contract. 
 
When reaching a decision on what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances Im required to take into account any relevant law. I think its relevant to this 
complaint that Ls policy requires the closure to be due to an emergency event  i.e. that the requirement for an event is met as well as the requirement for an emergency. I believe that 
the requirement for an emergency event distinguishes the clause from one which only 
requires an emergency. With that in mind, I think that Allianz has acted fairly and reasonably 
in deciding that the closure wasnt due to an emergency event. 
 
The High Court said (at paragraphs 404-405) about the need for an incident: 
 
 this word should be given the same essential meaning as an event: 
something which happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular 
way 
 
...an incident is not synonymous with emergency or danger it is a misuse 
of language both generally and on the correct construction of the NDDA clause 
to describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident occurring within 
a one mile radius of the insured premises. 
 
It may amount to a state of affairs but it istoo geographically dispersed, 
variegated, prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incident in any event, 
it is a misnomer to describe the presence of someone in the radius with the 
disease as an incident for the purposes of the clause. 
 
This part of the judgment wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court. However, Ive considered 
whether this position would be amended by later judgments and I dont think it would. 
 
Ls broker said that the Supreme Courts findings made the High Court judgment appear 
inconsistent. The broker said that, for example, the Supreme Court overturned the High 
Courts decisions on QBE2 and QBE3 (Disease clauses) on the basis that it was wrong to 
attach weight to the words incident and event and interpret such words to only give rise 
to local perils. 
 
I have considered this, but I dont think the Supreme Courts comments in relation to the 
QBE2 and QBE3 wording changes the outcome of Ls claim. Thats because the use of the 
word incident or event in those clauses is used within the definition of the indemnity period 
or as a way to describe what the clause covers. At paragraph 93 the Supreme Court said: 
 
We agree with these observations but cannot accept that the terms event and 
incident are necessary to make it clear that what is covered by the clause is 
any occurrence(s) of a notifiable disease within the 25 miles. That is already 
plain from the description of the insured peril as any occurrence of a notifiable 
disease within a radius of 25 miles of the premises. We do not perceive any 
difference in meaning between the terms occurrence and event, and nothing 
significant is added by the use of the word incident as a compendious term 
instead of the phrase occurrence discovery or accident 
 
I think this is different in Ls policy as the clause itself requires there to be an emergency 
event rather than an occurrence of the disease. 
 
I have also considered the Supreme Courts findings on causation  i.e. that each 
occurrence of Covid-19 within the radius which had occurred by the date of Government 
action was a separate and equally effective cause of that action. However, in order to 
uphold Ls complaint using this reasoning, I would need to find that a case or multiple cases 
within one mile of Ls premises constituted an emergency event. And given the reasoning set 
out by the High Court, I dont believe that it is. 
 
I have also considered Lord Mances comments which L has referred to and which are set out within the background of my decision. However, Lord Mances comments were in 
relation to an emergency rather than an emergency event, so I dont think they change the 
outcome of Ls claim. I acknowledge the points L has made about why the occurrences of 
Covid-19 within a one mile radius of its premises would be considered an emergency. 
However, as I dont believe that they would be considered an emergency event, I dont think 
that changes the outcome of Ls claim. 
 
Ive also considered whether the High Courts position would be amended by Corbin and 
King but I dont believe it would be. Thats because the judge said at paragraph [156]: 
 
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording 
 as the telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment 
makes clear. Its significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion 
at [404] that In our judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on 
the requirement for an incident. 
 
I have noted Ls point that I am able to depart from the law and reach a decision based on 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. I also recognise Ls 
point about the clarity of the wording given that these types of clauses have been subject to 
legal challenges. However, in this case, I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to 
depart from what I consider to be the current legal position on this clause and for that 
reason, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
 
Allianz didnt provide any further comments but L didnt agree with my provisional decision. 
In summary, it said: 
 
My decision is based on there being no distinction between an event and an 
emergency event and no distinction between an emergency event and an incident. 
However, I have drawn a distinction between an emergency and an emergency 
event.  
Policyholders who buy this sort of policy carefully read the terms and conditions but 
do not carry out a minute textual analysis of the wording as that is unreasonable, 
inappropriate and unnecessary.  
I have reached the wrong conclusion by treating emergency event as separate 
words rather than a composite term.  
I have carried out a minute textual analysis of the policy wording. This is not 
consistent with the guidance of the Supreme Court in the FCA test case (paragraph 
77) which follows the leading statement in the interpretation of contracts made by 
Lord Hoffman in Investors Compensation Scheme Limited v West Bromwich Building 
Society. My approach is fundamentally flawed and as a result my provisional decision 
is erroneous and cannot stand.  
My reference to Corbin and King (which should be paragraph 156 not 516 as Id 
incorrectly stated) refers to a policy which requires an incident. However, an incident 
is not synonymous with an emergency event. It is wrong for me to draw a comparison 
between an incident and an event rather than an emergency event.  
Corbin and King found that Covid-19 could be a danger. I had not considered 
whether emergency event was synonymous with a danger. L said that an emergency 
event could be a danger and a danger could be an emergency event.  
I am performing linguistic gymnastics to support Allianz. The word emergency is 
adjectival and it is wrong to conclude that L also needs to demonstrate that there has 
been an event.  
I have failed to address whether an emergency event can be distinguished from an 
emergency which endangers life.  My reliance on the word incident is misplaced. I should be considering whether an 
emergency event has the same meaning as an incident. L doesnt think they do and, 
in any event, Ls policy doesnt refer to an incident.  
In the China Taiping arbitration Lord Mance concluded that the policy didnt provide 
cover because the policy limited the closure being by a local authority or the police. 
This is not the case in Ls policy. The UK Government is accepted as being a 
statutory authority and that means the policy cannot be limited to only covering 
localised events. 
I have relied on the findings of the Divisional Court not being appealed to the 
Supreme Court but this fails to take account of Corbin and King which said that the 
Supreme Court judgment had moved the goalposts and the different wording used 
in Ls policy.  
Both Corbin and King and Lord Mance in the China Taiping arbitration raise 
considerable doubts about the findings of the Divisional Court.  
I accept that Covid-19 could be an emergency but I have not provided any 
compelling reasons for the distinction between an emergency and an emergency 
event.    
The regulations introduced in March 2020 were issued pursuant to the Governments 
emergency powers. While they were initially made under the Public Health Act 1984, 
they could equally have been made under the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 Part 2 
(Emergency Powers), under which the Government is given emergency powers to 
protect human life, health or safety. Section 19 of the Act defines an emergency as 
an event or situation which threatens serious damage to human welfare in the 
United Kingdom or part of a region. This defines an emergency as an event and so 
an emergency can also be described as an emergency event.  
I said that I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to depart from what I consider to 
be the correct legal position in this case. However, I have reached a decision by 
relying on the Divisional Courts interpretation of an event or incident despite the 
reservations expressed by the Supreme Court on the reliance of them (paragraph 
93). 
A case is due to be heard in the courts later this year which will address a claim 
being made under the same clause. L thinks it is highly likely that the policyholder will 
win this case. It would be wrong for me to decide what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in reliance on what I wrongly consider to be the current legal position.  
The investigator did not correctly consider the complaint therefore any reference to 
the investigators consideration is erroneous and misguided.  
No reasonable businessman would draw a distinction between an emergency and an 
emergency event.  
The fair and reasonable outcome would be for Allianz to compensate L under the 
policy.  
I have incorrectly referred to Ls representative as a broker.   
For clarity, I would add that the test case was heard at first instance by a two judge panel 
and, although their judgment was not entitled Divisional Court, they were in effect sitting as 
a Divisional Court. Within my decision, references to the High Court and Divisional Court in 
relation to the FCA test case refer to the same court. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. I will explain 
why.  As set out in my provisional decision the starting point for interpreting a contract is 
to consider what a reasonable policyholder with all the background knowledge that would 
reasonably have been available to the parties when they entered into the contract would 
have understood the language in the contract to mean. It is with this in mind that I have 
considered what is meant by an emergency event. I also believe that my approach is 
consistent with the judgment of the Supreme Court.  
L said that I have made a mistake in treating emergency event as separate words rather 
than a composite term. A composite term is made up of separate parts. So while I have 
considered the wording as a whole, in order to do that I have considered its separate parts 
and how those parts combine. I have also considered the wording of the clause as a whole, 
rather than looking at emergency event in isolation. 
I think that a reasonable reader would consider that an emergency event is something 
different to an emergency, otherwise the word event would not be needed. L said that the 
word emergency is adjectival but I dont believe that means that the word event should be 
disregarded. I think that the word emergency qualifies the word event. Therefore, it 
remains, that I believe that I need to consider the whole of emergency event and not just 
the emergency part of the wording.  
I recognise that Ls policy does not require there to have been an incident in order to provide 
cover and my decision is not based on there needing to have been an incident. However, 
much of the legal discussion has focused on incident, so I do think it is relevant to consider 
to what extent an event has the same meaning and effect as an incident. As noted in my 
provisional decision, the High Court found that the word incident should be given the 
same essential meaning as an event. I acknowledge that Ls policy requires an emergency 
event as a particular type of event. 
 
I do not think an emergency event is synonymous with the word danger because of 
the inclusion of the word event which I think indicates that it requires something which 
happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular way and is an 
indication that the clause provides narrow localised cover. For the same reason, I do 
not consider that an emergency event is synonymous with an emergency which 
endangers life.  
L said that I have relied on comments from the Divisional Court in relation to this type of 
clause but the comments of the Supreme Court, Corbin and King and Lord Mance have 
cast doubt over the Divisional Court judgment. I considered this in my provisional 
decision. I explained that I thought the judges comments at paragraph 156 in Corbin 
and King did not change the position where the policy required an incident. As I think 
an emergency event would be considered in the same way as an incident, I dont think 
Corbin and King changes the position for this clause in Ls policy. For the same reason, 
I dont think that Lord Mances comments change the position either.   
I note Ls point that the UK Government is considered a statutory authority. However, I 
believe that the majority of the authorities listed in Ls policy (police, fire brigade, transport, 
and local authority) point more towards local events. This was a factor which was discussed 
in paragraph 157 of Corbin and King.   
 
I have considered Ls point that restrictions were introduced in March 2020 under the Public 
Health Act 1984 but could equally have been made under the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 
Part 2. I note that the definition of emergency within the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 Part 2 
describes an emergency as an event but I dont think that this definition means that an 
emergency would always be considered an event; rather this is the definition within this legislation. Indeed, the definition of emergency in the Act is event or situation. I remain of 
the view that its more likely that an emergency event would be considered in the same way 
as an incident, because it requires an emergency event and not just an emergency. 
 
L has referred to a case which is due to be heard by the courts this year. L thinks that the 
policyholder is highly likely to win. I havent been provided with anything other than Ls 
comments to show what exactly is being considered by the court but I have assumed that L 
is correct about what the case will cover. My role is to reach an independent resolution to 
this dispute, which is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances, quickly and with 
minimum formality. In doing that, I have taken account of what I consider to be the current 
legal position.  
 
L said that no reasonable businessman would differentiate between an emergency and an 
emergency event. However, I have considered the full wording of the clause and the test for 
interpreting a contract, as set out above, and I remain of the view that it is more likely than 
not that a court would consider an emergency event as more akin to an incident than to an 
emergency. 
 
I have referred to our investigators findings to set out the background sequence only. I have 
carried out my own review of Ls complaint and do not seek to rely on the outcome reached 
by our investigator in support of the outcome I have reached independently.  
For clarity, I would like to reassure L that references regarding its broker in my provisional 
decision were to its broker and not to the representative. These points addressed a 
complaint point that L made in an email dated 8 April 2021 in which L said, In an email to us 
from [broker] dated 24 February 2021, [broker] acknowledges that the Supreme Court 
overturned the decisions on QBE2 and QBE3 (Disease Clauses) on the basis that it was 
wrong to attach weight to the words incident and event and interpret such words to only 
give rise to local perils. [Broker] go on to say that it is those words that are the problem for 
this extension in [Ls policy]. 
Taking all of the reasons above into account, I am not persuaded by Ls submissions to 
change my view as set out in my provisional decision. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, and in my further comments above, I 
believe Allianz has acted fairly and reasonably in declining Ls claim. Therefore, having 
considered things very carefully, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman