DRN-3088999
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains about delays in obtaining a Bounce Back 
Loan from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
One of Ss directors, Mr H, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
S banked with Barclays. Mr H attempted to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan on 
5 May 2020, but was initially unable to complete the online application. The application was 
only completed some time later, on 25 June. It was approved and S received its loan later 
that day.
Mr H says Barclays took too long to process Ss application and provided a poor level of 
service. He says that the delays in obtaining the loan meant S couldnt progress work as 
expected and lost out on substantial discounts. He also says he spent several hours chasing 
things up with the bank.
Barclays says that the delays werent the result of any errors on its part. It says it needed to 
update Know Your Customer (KYC) information about S before it could proceed with the 
application. And it says it dealt with Ss application as best it could, bearing in mind the 
unprecedented circumstances of the time  including the level of demand for borrowing 
under the Scheme and the impact of the pandemic on the banks operations.
One of our investigators reviewed Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said, in summary, that:
Barclays had to complete a number of checks before approving a loan and it was 
reasonable for the bank to have updated its records on S before proceeding with the 
companys application.
The bank needed information from S and, once received, had to update its system. 
This took some time and was also impacted by a change to Ss Companies House 
records on 9 June. In the end, the changes were made on 19 June and Mr H was 
advised that day that he could apply. 
While accepting that the time taken by Barclays to complete its checks was slightly 
longer than ideal, there hadnt been any protracted delays. And considering the 
circumstances under which the bank was operating at the time, she didnt think the 
delay was unreasonable.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. He still thought Barclays had caused 
unreasonable delays and shouldve carried out its updates and checks in a timely manner. 
He also says that other banks were operating under similar circumstances, but still 
processed Bounce Back Loan applications quickly. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders were required to undertake certain checks before approving an application for a 
Bounce Back Loan, as our investigator explained. I think it was reasonable for Barclays, in 
fulfilling these, to ensure that the information it held about S was accurate. It has shown that 
there were discrepancies between the information it held and that recorded with Companies 
House.
Mr H says that he wasnt notified of the need to update this information sooner, but Barclays 
wasnt required to do that. It was reasonable for the bank to simply require this information to 
be updated as and when S approached it for a new product, as happened here. So its not 
down to an error on Barclays part that these updates were outstanding, meaning that the 
application couldnt proceed as might otherwise have been possible.
It was, therefore, always going to take a little more time for S to complete its Bounce Back 
Loan application, while this was attended to. This was also the reason Mr H was unable to 
submit the application online at the outset, rather than being the result of any technical 
problem as he may have believed initially.
I can see that there was a slight delay in the bank progressing the requisite updates. Mr H 
had been attempting to apply online from 5 May, but I cant see that any meaningful action to 
move things forward was taken until 27 May. But Barclays has explained the operational 
challenges it was dealing with at the time  in addition to being in the early stages of rolling 
out the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and receiving an unprecedented volume of applications 
and associated contact, the bank was also having to deal with the impact of the pandemic on 
its usual operations. In this context, I dont think the delays were unreasonable. 
After Barclays was in touch with Mr H to obtain the information it needed on 27 May, 
Barclays completed the necessary changes and checks by 19 June  a little over three 
weeks. Bearing in mind what Ive said above, I think this was a reasonable timeframe. It 
confirmed to Mr H that he could apply straightaway. I cant see any fault on the part of the 
bank that meant S only then applied almost a week later on 25 June. And once received, the 
application was processed without delay.
Ive taken into account everything Mr H has said and provided to us, including that other 
lenders were able to process Bounce Back Loan applications more quickly despite having to 
conduct the same checks  and operate under the same circumstances  as Barclays. 
Thats a fair observation, although it wasnt universally the case and delays were 
experienced by a number of customers of various lenders. But the ability of other lenders  
or even Barclays itself  to turn other applications around more quickly doesnt mean that it 
was reasonable to expect this in every case, or in Ss. Ive set out why I dont think that the 
bank was responsible for any unreasonable delays when dealing with Ss application.
Ive also noted that Mr H has queried the lack of a definition as to what might constitute a 
reasonable or unreasonable period of time. These are subjective terms. There was no set 
expectation on lenders and we are not able to ascribe one. We are required to determine 
complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of 
each case. Ive explained above why I dont think the timeframes within which Barclays dealt 
with Ss application were unreasonable, bearing in mind the particular circumstances within 
which it was handled.So while I appreciate that it took S more time and trouble than Mr H wouldve liked to obtain 
a Bounce Back Loan, I dont think this is due to any error or unreasonableness on Barclays 
part. It follows that there is no basis on which I can require it to pay the company any 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman