DRN-4139295
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement with Secure Trust Bank PLC trading as V12 Vehicle Finance (V12). 
What happened
On 20 April 2022 Mr T acquired a used hybrid car under a hire purchase agreement with 
V12. The car cost around £21,000 and after a part exchange vehicle was taken into account 
Mr T borrowed around £17,000 under the agreement. It was to be paid back over five years 
with payments of around £375 per month. The mileage was around 104,000 and the car was 
around five and half years old. 
Mr T says that on the way home from picking the car up he noticed excessive fuel 
consumption and a warning about the battery. He tells us he charged the hybrid battery, but 
it drained from 100% to under 10% within a few minutes. He says there were warnings about 
the battery, the drive train and the electronics. And he tells us those warnings came on 
intermittently. 
Mr T says he called the dealer to return the car the next day but didnt get any help. He says 
six days after picking up the car he contacted the broker because of the issues. Mr T says 
the broker directed him back to the dealer. Mr T says the dealer continued to refuse to help 
him. And that he visited the dealer twice but the person he was dealing with wasnt available. 
I can see Mr T asked to replace the car on 4 May 2022. He also made enquiries with other 
garages. 
Mr T says he took the car to another garage in June 2022 for a service which cost around 
£300. I can see Mr T tried contacting the dealer again in July because he wasnt receiving a 
response about his issues with the battery.
Mr T complained to V12 in November 2022. It acknowledged the evidence submitted by 
Mr T, but it said the evidence was insufficient in proving the issues Mr T was having were to 
do with the hybrid battery. And it needed to see this, along with information to evidence the 
issue was present or developing at the point of supply. However, it said the dealer had 
agreed to cover the cost of the £300 service. Mr T says the repair to the battery was around 
£5,000. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr T brought his complaint to our service to consider. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think there was sufficient evidence to 
uphold the complaint. She didnt think there was enough evidence the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply taking into account its age and mileage. And 
thought the issue was likely down to the battery reaching the end of its usual lifespan. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said hed done enough to show the problems were there at the point of 
supply. He says he cant understand why he wasnt able to hand the car back on this basis. 
After stopping payments towards the agreement and declaring the car off road, Mr T said he 
paid around £200 for a report from a manufacturer approved garage. This report said the 
battery was defective. And it said Cell module 1 in High voltage battery internally faulty. The 
report said both items require replacement and further testing could be required. And that 
further diagnosis and repairs might be required. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr T and V12 that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr T acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr T entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the quality of goods is satisfactory. V12 is 
the trader for the purposes of the CRA and is therefore responsible for dealing with a 
complaint about their quality.
The CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant 
circumstances. For this case, I think the other relevant circumstances include the age and 
mileage of the car at the point of supply.
In Mr Ts case, the car supplied was used and had covered around 104,000 miles. Thered 
be different expectations than if it was a brand-new car. But its worth pointing out the car 
cost around £21,000. I dont think hed have expected it to have any major issues 
immediately (that werent brought to his attention). 
I think theres enough evidence to demonstrate there are faults with the car. Mr T has shown 
us evidence of fault codes, warnings on the dash, and hes recently obtained a vehicle 
health check, the results of which Ive set out above. 
Like our investigator pointed out, it would have been helpful to have something like a job 
card or health check from the point Mr T acquired the car. But weve not been provided that. 
I also havent seen documentary evidence that Mr T validly sought to reject the car  
although I appreciate he tells us he tried to do that. However, I think weight has to be put on 
the messages Mr T has shown us, and his testimony. Hes shown us he complained to the 
broker about the battery within a few days. Hes mentioned it didnt hold its charge and that 
he was using a lot of fuel. Hes been consistent throughout that this has been an issue. I can 
also see he booked the car in with a manufacturer approved garage on 4 May 2022 (a 
couple of weeks after acquisition). The service comments say Car consuming too much fuel 
and hybrid electric battery draining too fast. I think this was likely what Mr T had explained to 
the garage, rather than a formal diagnostic. But it shows Mr T has been complaining about 
the battery since he acquired the car. And hes also shown us that he did request a 
replacement car at the beginning of May 2022 as well  within a month of acquisition.
Moreover, the recent evidence Mr T has shown us explains there is a fault with the battery. 
And even though Mr T covered around 4,000 miles in the car, on balance, I think theres 
been an issue with the battery throughout the time hes been in possession of it. Ive next thought about what our investigator said about the lifespan of the battery. Theres 
lots of different opinions on how long a battery is meant to retain its charge for the particular 
model Mr T acquired. A number of factors can impact the lifespan. Im not sure if the car was 
supplied with the original battery or with a replacement. Ive thought about whether its fair to 
say that because the car had covered 104,000 miles and that it was over five years old that 
any issue with the battery is simply to be expected. And so Mr T ought to have born the cost 
of the replacement, and that the fault didnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
The issue I have with taking that view is that it seems the battery was hardly retaining any 
charge when the car was supplied to Mr T. Mr Ts evidence has been consistent on this 
point. Ive not been shown any evidence this car was sold as requiring a new battery straight 
away. And just because its a part that would need replacing at the end of its life doesnt 
necessarily mean its fair the car was sold with it like that if Mr T wasnt made aware. So, 
while Id like to have seen some more information, on balance, I think Im minded to say the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T. I dont think a reasonable 
person would have expected the battery to fail to hold a reasonable amount of charge 
immediately when the car cost around £21,000. The main reason for Mr T buying the car 
was that it was hybrid and so he could save money on fuel costs. So I also dont think the 
car wasnt fit for the particular purpose Mr T bought it for. 
One thing to bear in mind is that the complaint here is against V12, and not the dealer. So I 
cant hold V12 responsible for the dealers action after it sold the car. But I think its important 
to note it looks like Mr T was trying to sort things out with the dealer but wasnt getting 
anywhere. Its quite usual for the customer to go back to the dealer first in these scenarios. 
Mr T says he made various attempts to contact the dealer, and that he even visited its 
premises on occasion, but wasnt given any help. 
All things considered, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think the dealer had the opportunity 
to help Mr T but didnt. I can understand why V12 came to its decision. But on balance I think 
there was a breach of contract relating to fitness and quality. I also think theres a strong 
case to argue that had Mr T shown hed taken the steps to validly exercise his short term 
right to reject the goods it would have been successful. 
Ive next thought about how it would be best to put things right. I could recommend a repair 
is carried out. But Im conscious that Im not sure if this will resolve everything based on the 
recent heath check thats been carried out. Im also conscious any repairs should be carried 
out within a reasonable amount of time. So having considered everything, I think the fairest 
thing now would be to allow Mr T to reject the car. So Im intending to direct V12 to end the 
agreement and remove any adverse information about it from Mr Ts credit file. I think Mr Ts 
deposit/part exchange value should be refunded. V12 should refund all payments from April 
2023 when he declared the car off road. 
Ive also thought about the issues Mr T experienced while he had use of the car. He was 
able to cover 4,000 miles in the car from what I can see. But it looks as though his use was 
impaired for that time due to the issues with the battery and the related warnings. Theres no 
exact scientific formula for me to use to cover the impaired use. But Im minded to say he 
should receive 25% back of his payments up until March 2023. Mr T has shown he had 
various warning lights appear and his fuel costs would have been higher than they would 
have been had the battery been working more in line with what ought to have been 
expected. 
I think the matter has no doubt caused Mr T some distress and inconvenience as a result of 
being supplied a car that I dont think was of satisfactory quality and wasnt fit for the 
particular purpose it was bought for. I think a lot of this was made worse by the alleged lack 
of support he received from the dealer. But for the reasons given above, I cant hold V12 responsible for that. However, Im mindful that theres some direct inconvenience caused by 
the supply of the goods such as the trips to the dealer he tells us he made, and the calls and 
contact hes been put to in trying to resolve things. So I think V12 should also pay Mr T a 
further £150 in recognition of that.
Finally, Ive thought about other costs Mr T has incurred. I dont have evidence of everything. 
It looks like he has been reimbursed the cost of the service. I think he should also receive a 
refund of the cost of the recent health check he had carried out. And he should let us know, 
with evidence of the actual payment being made, of any other costs hes incurred in relation 
to the car in response to this provisional decision. 
Weve not received a substantive response from V12 despite chasing it, but Mr T responded 
and broadly seemed to accept the provisional decision. He supplied a list of other costs he 
says he incurred. Our investigator asked for further evidence Mr T had paid certain costs, 
such as card receipts or bank statements showing payments that were made. 
Having looked at the evidence and speaking to me, our investigator contacted the parties to 
say she thought V12 should refund Mr T:
£148.40 to reflect 50% of the service costs carried out in June 2022. 
£35 for diagnostics carried out in January 2023, (there was a typographical error 
saying this was 2022)
£550 in relation to vehicle recovery, service/repair costs in May 2023. 
£198 for the May 2023 health check as per the provisional decision. 
Mr T queried some of the costs that werent included. And our investigator spoke to him 
about what I was intending on directing V12 to do, and why. Mr T didnt raise further 
objections or supply further evidence for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further submissions. Ive not seen anything that leads me to change my 
mind with regards to the quality of the car, or that it wasnt fit for the purpose Mr T acquired it 
for. So, for the reasons already given, Im not going to depart from the conclusions I reached 
regarding the rejection of the car. 
The main thing left in dispute is the losses that Mr T is claiming for. Our investigator 
explained to Mr T that we needed to see evidence of costs having been paid. Hes sent us in 
some documents, but Im only going to direct V12 to refund Mr T for losses hes claiming for 
that I can see hes incurred and paid. 
Im not going to direct V12 to pay for the travel costs Mr T has shown us. Hes receiving a full 
refund for payments made from April 2023 as I think he stopped using the car then. 
Refunding any travel costs after this would lead to double recovery. Hes receiving 25% of 
his payments up until March 2023, and £150 for the inconvenience caused, and I think this is 
broadly fair in all the circumstances given he was able to use the car during this period. 
Seeing as though Mr T used the car for nearly a year afterwards (albeit that use was 
impaired) I felt that a 50% refund of the service he had carried out in 2022 was fair in the 
round. Theres no exact scientific formula to use in these situations, but he had some benefit of the service which is why I didnt think a full refund was fair. If hes already received a 
refund for this (as was previously offered) this amount can be offset. 
Mr T arranged diagnostics in January 2023 for £35 due to the issues. He also had to arrange 
recovery and work on the car when it was due its MOT in 2023. Hes supplied an invoice for 
£550 and shown us his bank statements that indicate he paid £410 by bank transfer, and he 
says he paid £40 in cash. Mr T was put in a difficult position because he didnt want to use 
the car, but he needed to have it taxed and MOTd because he was worried it would be 
clamped if he didnt. He was also trying to supply evidence to V12 about the faults. I think 
this goes to explain why there were costs incurred after he sought rejection. I think its fair he 
receives a refund for these costs as well given he wouldnt have incurred them had V12 
allowed him to hand the car back or had it repaired when I think it should have done.
I previously set out in my provisional decision that Mr T should be refunded for the vehicle 
health check in May 2023. So I wont go over that again.  
Therefore, all things considered, I remain of the view that Mr T should be able to reject the 
car and received back his part exchange allowance. And I also think its fair he receives back 
those reasonably foreseeable losses hes shown he incurred, and that I think were flowing 
from the breach of contract.
Putting things right
To the extent it (or a third party) has not done so already, Secure Trust Bank PLC trading as 
V12 Vehicle Finance should:
1. End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr T.
3. Refund the part exchange allowance of £4,039.20. 
4. Refund all payments from April 2023. 
5. Refund 25% of payments from inception to March 2023. 
6. Refund Mr T £148.40 in relation to 50% of the June 2022 service. 
7. Refund Mr T £35 for the diagnostics carried out in January 2023
8. Refund Mr T £550 for the May 2023 recovery, MOT, service/repair costs. 
9. Refund Mr T £198 in relation to the vehicle health check he paid for on 31 May 2023.
10. Pay Mr T £150 compensation. 
11. Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mr Ts credit file.
 
*Interest should be added to the refunded amounts set out above, calculated at a rate of 8% 
per year simple, from the date payment was made to the date of settlement.
If V12 considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr T how much tax its taken off. It should also give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
V12 can also offset any refunds already given. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Secure Trust Bank PLC trading as 
V12 Vehicle Finance to put things right in the way Ive set out above:Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman