DRN-3723747
The complaint
Mr S complains about delays caused to the transfer of his investments held within his Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) which he says IPS Partnership plc trading as James Hay 
Partnership (JH) is partly to blame for. 
Mr S is being represented. All references to Mr S will include submissions by his 
representatives. It should also be noted that Mr S shared an investment account with his 
wife (Mrs S) linked to both their respective SIPPs. Ill refer to both Mr and Mrs S throughout 
this decision where relevant. But this decision concerns Mr Ss complaint only. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 7 September 2022. I set out the background to this 
complaint which I wont repeat again in full here but will instead focus on the reasons for my 
decision. 
In summary, the following background is relevant to this decision:
Mr S held a separate SIPP with JH which he wanted to transfer to a new provider. Ill 
refer to the new SIPP provider as T. With Mrs S, Mr S held a joint investment 
account that was linked to both his and Mrs Ss respective SIPPs. Both SIPPs were 
with JH. The investment account was with a business Ill refer to as B and was 
called a Pension Trader Account (PTA). 
The way the PTA worked was that JH was the administrator and either Mr or Mrs S 
could communicate directly with B, including to arrange their own investments. 
However, any transfer instructions and any account change restrictions had to come 
directly from JH.
In 2013, Mr S requested a transfer to T. However, after making a number of requests 
for information from T, and receiving no response, B cancelled the transfer. 
In 2015, B decided to discontinue PTAs. JH sent a letter from B to Mr and Mrs Ss 
adviser on 25 July 2015 informing them of Bs decision. Bs letter said PTA clients 
should make new arrangements by 31 July 2015. However, in November 2016, 
Mrs S called B asking if their (Mr and Mrs Ss) PTA could be reactivated. But, by this 
point, the account was being wound down, so no trading could be carried out. 
Mr S made a new transfer request in 2017. And in early 2021 he complained to JH 
about the delays it had caused to the transfer process.
In my provisional decision, I said that I didnt think the 2013 transfer request had 
been made in time. However, I felt that in terms of the 2017 transfer, JHs customer 
service did cause some delays and overall, I felt it had fallen short of what Mr S could 
expect in terms of the customer service he received. I said I intended to award Mr S 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by JH.
JH disagreed with my intended outcome of paying Mr S £100 for its customer service 
failings. In particular, it said it had requested the ISIN codes (International Securities 
Identification Number) in August 2017 from B. Mr S didnt respond to my provisional 
decision.
The matter has now been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive taken on board the further comments by JH my decision remains the same. Ill 
explain why after I deal with the 2013 request which I still consider has been brought too late 
by Mr S.
2013 transfer request
I have heard nothing from either party which has changed my mind about the 2013 request 
being out of time. So, as set out in my provisional decision, I think the 2013 transfer request 
is out of time for the following reasons:
If a business doesnt consent (JH hasnt), I cant consider a complaint which isnt made 
within six years of the event complained of, or if later, within three years of when the 
complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, of the cause for 
complaint. This is due to DISP Rule 2.8.2 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. 
The event complained of is the delays to the transfer request made in 2013. Mr S says the 
2013 request is a continuation of the later transfer request made in 2017. But in my view, 
these were two separate transfer requests. So, the six-year time limit started from 2013 for 
the transfer request made at that time. Therefore, Mr S had until 2019 to complain. As he 
only complained about this to JH in early 2021, I consider this matter is out of time under the 
six-year part of our time limit rules.
In terms of the three-year part of our rules, Mr S had three years from the date he knew, or 
ought reasonably to have become aware, of his cause to complain. B said the transfer was 
stopped in 2013 because T didnt respond to its requests. Im not sure if this was 
communicated to Mr S by either B or JH. 
However, in 2015 JH forwarded a letter to Mr Ss adviser letting him (the adviser) know the 
PTA was still active. And that it needed to be transferred due to the PTA no longer 
continuing. So, given Mr S had already asked for a transfer two years previous to this, I 
consider the 2015 letter would have made him aware that something had gone wrong with 
the (2013) transfer request. As Mr S didnt complain until early 2021, I think the matter is 
also out of time under our three-year time limit rule.
I can look at a complaint even where it has been brought too late if exceptional 
circumstances apply. But given Mr S or his representatives were communicating with JH 
during different times up until he made his complaint I dont think this applies in this case.
So, for all these reasons, I find the 2013 transfer isnt a complaint our service can consider 
as it has been brought too late. 
2017 transfer requestIn summary, my provisional decision, I gave the following reasons for upholding the 
complaint in part as follows:
In terms of the 2017 transfer request made by Mr S on 1 August 2017, its clear to me there 
were delays at the start of the process of around four weeks which I think were more likely 
than not, caused by JH. I say this because Ts letter requesting valuations asked for ISIN 
codes. Whilst JH did ask B for valuations reasonably quickly, it didnt ask for the ISIN codes 
until 4 October. 
As well as what Ive set out in my timeline above this was confirmed in an email to Mr and 
Mrs Ss adviser dated 25 October 2017. JH said: This is concerning as I have myself 
spoken to [B] twice requesting a valuation including ISINS firstly on 04/10 and followed up on 
12/10. Before 4 October, I cant see any documents or information where JH specifically 
asked for the ISIN codes. So, I do think this caused a delay at the start of the process. But 
from that point onwards, other than a few communication issues, I dont think JH has acted 
unreasonably or unfairly overall. Ill explain why.
By 26 October 2017 T had been sent the valuations along with the ISIN codes. But it took T 
three months until 20 January 2018, to confirm the re-registration details. Prior to this, in 
December 2017, T had said it could not accept one of Mr and Mrs Ss shareholdings which 
they would need to sell. Mr and Mrs S provided instructions for this sale to JH in or around 
20 January 2018. And sent B these instructions on the same day and the full transfer 
request on 31 January. 
However, B needed to transfer Mr and Mrs Ss joint former PTA to a new internal/ custody 
account before the transfer could be completed. This happened on 20 February 2018 and B 
confirmed this with JH. JH chased B twice in March about this but received no response. 
It wasnt until early May 2018, that there seemed to be any further progress. Mr and Mrs Ss 
adviser contacted JH for an update on 2 May and JH responded on 11 May to say that B 
couldnt do a partial in-specie transfer. On this date (11 May), B recorded on its system that 
the 'client' had called to say theyd changed their mind about transferring and were going to 
a new broker. Ive asked all parties who the client was in this context as B was unable to 
say whether it was JH or Mr and Mrs S. JH has told our service that it hadnt instructed B 
about this. Mr and Mrs Ss adviser told our investigator that (bold the advisers emphasis):
It seems from going through correspondence that [Mr and Mrs S] initially wanted the 
transfers to be done in specie, but that [B] had a rule that either the entire holding must be 
transferred in specie or all must be transferred as cash. As [T] could not hold two of the 
funds on their platform (one was delisted and the other in administration), this meant [Mr and 
Mrs S] would be forced to cash in the entire holdings. [The adviser] did mention to James 
Hay that in the view of treating customers fairly and due to the severe delays that [B] should 
find an exception to their rule and transfer part in specie and part in cash. However this fell 
on deaf ears and eventually, with reluctance and to just get the matter resolved, your 
decision was to cash in the shares instructed on 28 June 2018.
 
On balance, I think when Mr and Mrs Ss adviser was told on 11 May by JH that B would not 
process a partial in-specie transfer, they spent some time either through their adviser or JH 
to try to see if B could be persuaded to change its stance on this. Its unclear whether B 
misunderstood this to mean they cancelled the transfer process. But in any event, until Mr 
and Mrs S (jointly) gave B new instructions, it could not progress with the transfer. It only 
received these new instructions on 11 July 2018 after JH received these from Mr and Mrs S 
on or around 2 July 2018. I do, however, think JH could have chased B and communicated better with Mr and Mrs S 
and/ or their adviser between mid-March and early May 2018. But given it took Mr and Mrs S 
sometime to decide what to do once they were made aware they couldnt do a partial in-
specie transfer, I dont think this caused a delay to the process overall. JH also had no 
control of B's processes so it cant be held responsible for Mr and Mrs S not being able to do 
an in-specie transfer as theyd originally requested.
B has admitted the new sale instructions arrived by 11 July but wasn't picked up until it was 
chased by JH on 15 August. JH chased this with B when it received no response after 
sending the instruction in July. This led to B finding the form and taking appropriate steps to 
sell the shares.  There was then a two week delay in transferring the sale proceeds to JH 
once the shares were sold.
 
So, from what I can see, apart from failing to initially request the ISIN codes, up until the 
cash from the sale of the shares was received from B in early October 2018, JH didnt cause 
any unreasonable delays. I also dont think it caused any unreasonable delays after the cash 
was transferred to Mr Ss (SIPP) account. This was because these delays were the result of 
the non-tradeable shares issue and/ or it (JH) was waiting for instructions from Mr S as to 
what to do with the cash balance held in his account. 
Mr Ss adviser was told no later than 2 November 2018 about the cash balance in his 
account and was given the option to transfer this to T. So, I cant fairly or reasonably hold JH 
responsible for Mr S holding cash in his SIPP for as long as he did. This was something he 
needed to instruct JH about given it was providing him with a non-advised service.
Its unclear exactly when the bulk of cash from Mr Ss JH SIPP was transferred to his 
account with T, but this appears to have been done in October 2020. Regardless of this, 
there still remained the issue of the non-tradeable shares which meant the account with JH 
and B could not be closed. So, I dont think JH acted unfairly in continuing to charge Mr S 
fees for the service it was providing. And JH had no control over if or when T would accept 
the shares Mr S held in his joint account with B. 
I can also see that JH informed Mr S and his adviser about the issues with the non-tradeable 
stock. These issues were beyond its control. It was only in January 2020, that T agreed to 
take two of the four remaining stocks. I can see it wasnt long after this that JH agreed to one 
of the remaining stocks being relinquished. But looking at the reasons for not relinquishing 
the last remaining stock, which was because its accounts still showed the business had 
value, I don't think JH acted unreasonably here. 
Further, when the matter came to our service, our investigator mediated with JH about the 
last remaining stock. JH agreed the last shareholding could be gifted. But from what I can 
see Mr S doesn't want this option as he thinks the shares may have some value. So, even if 
JH had offered this sooner, I dont think Mr S would have accepted its offer. Therefore, I 
cant hold JH responsible for any delays in closing the SIPP due to the stock still being held 
in Mr and Mrs Ss joint account with B.
Mr S thinks JH should have told him the non-trading stocks weren't suitable investments for 
him. But as Ive said, JH was providing a non-advised service to Mr S. So, it wouldn't be in a 
position to advise him about whether the stock was suitable.
I know Mr S thinks JH was disingenuous when it told B to communicate directly with T. 
Given the clear communication issues that were experienced during the transfer process, I 
think this was a reasonable approach for JH to take. From what I can see it actively stayed 
involved in the process but it just enabled better communication between T and B who 
needed to resolve the last remaining share issues.Mr S says he has not received H Ltd shares into his SIPP with T. But from what I can see 
this transfer was completed in August 2018. And it's unclear to me whether these shares 
belong to Mr S or Mrs S. Nonetheless, I think JH has done enough to show it completed the 
transfer by providing the share certificate which clearly shows T as the owner of the shares. 
So, I dont think it has to do anything further in this regard.
Following my provisional decision JH provided evidence that it did write to B asking for the 
ISIN codes on 8 August 2017. But on the same day it wrote to B again asking for valuations 
without asking for the ISIN codes. B then sent valuations, without the ISIN codes on 13 
August. It took JH until October to ask for these again.
So, whilst I accept JH did initially ask for the ISIN codes, I consider there were various 
communication issues which caused Mr S unnecessary distress and inconvenience. For 
example, although JH did request the ISIN codes in August 2017, after receiving the 
statements from B, it didnt chase up the missing information until October 2017. And it only 
let Mr S know about the issues after being contacted for an update. Similarly, from mid-
March 2018 to 11 May 2018, JH didnt take any action to chase matters until it was chased 
itself by Mr Ss adviser for an update. 
So for these customer service issues, overall, I think £100 is still a fair and reasonable 
reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused by JH. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part in respect of the 2017 transfer request and order The IPS 
Partnership plc trading as James Hay Partnership to pay Mr S £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I think the matters relating to the transfer request made in 2013 are 
not within our jurisdiction as they have been brought too late
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman