DRN-3160992
The complaint
Miss F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt do enough to protect her 
when she fell victim to a scam - or treat her fairly afterwards.
What happened
In February 2020, Miss F fell victim to an investment scam. Shed been looking to invest a 
sum of money that she was intending to be used to provide for her familys future. 
Having found some suitable looking investments online, Miss F sent a first payment of 
£20,000. This was made on 21 February by Faster Payments bank transfer from her Halifax 
account. A few days later, on 24 February, she sent a further £10,000 payment.
On the date of this second payment Miss F started to have doubts. She called Halifax and 
explains she spoke to the call handler for around 90 minutes. However, she wasnt 
transferred to the specialist fraud team, and the scam wasnt uncovered.
Furthermore, while it appears the payment had temporarily been placed on hold, Miss Fs 
partner was tricked by the scammer into believing the investment was genuine after all. That 
led to Miss F later calling Halifax back saying she was no longer worried it was a scam. Miss 
F explains the payment was then released without further question.
Initially all seemed to be as expected. But a few months later, Miss F was unable to access 
the supposed investment online  the website was no longer available. She realised this had 
been a scam after all, and she reported it to Halifax.
Halifax is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. The CRM Code includes 
timescales that a firm is required to meet.
Initially, Halifax didnt refund Miss F for the money shed lost. Whats more, Miss F says that, 
besides receiving a single text message, the onus was on her to constantly chase Halifax for 
an answer. It was only the following year, in early 2021, when her case was escalated that 
she was told shed be refunded in full.
In its final response Halifax said it was sorry it hadnt got things right from the outset. It was 
now willing to refund her in full. It offered to reimburse the money shed lost, plus interest at 
the account rate. In recognition of the poor service shed received it offered an additional 
sum of £130.
Miss F didnt think £130 was a fair reflection of what shed been through. In particular, she 
said:
- When shed first called, on 24 February, she wasnt transferred to a specialist fraud 
call handler, and Halifax now accepted this had been wrong. Had this happened at 
the time the scam and all the consequences might have been avoided;
- When shed called back to retract the concerns shed raised initially, there was no 
questioning or attempt to check that everything was legitimate, the payment was just 
released, despite being an unusual payment for her;
- When the scam eventually came to light, shed been left without updates and had to 
constantly chase to find out what was happening. Shed been left unsure whether 
shed ever receive any of her money back and every time she had to call had felt 
physically sick with the worry and anxiety this situation was causing her;
- In one call shed felt patronized by the staff member, and been told the bank was 
trying to work out if she was responsible for the loss, when she was already very 
distressed by what had happened;
- The stress and anxiety seriously affected her health and made an existing chronic 
condition significantly worse. Shed had to seek medical advice from her doctor. 
When Covid-19 had hit Miss F had been unable to work which meant shed had to 
rely on her remaining savings to get by, and her general confidence had taken a 
serious knock. She is still recovering from everything that happened;
- When the case did get escalated in early 2021, everything was quickly sorted out and 
it was accepted that the bank was at fault in a lot of what had happened. Halifaxs 
complaint handler had told her this outcome ought to have been reached far earlier, 
which could have avoided the distress and anxiety shed suffered.
Our investigator reviewed what had happened. He agreed with Miss F that the figure of £130 
wasnt a fair offer of compensation in all the circumstances shed described. While he 
accepted that some of the distress and inconvenience Miss F had suffered was due to the 
actions of the scammers, he thought Halifax should compensate her by a higher amount. He 
said that taking everything into account he recommended a figure of £500. 
Halifax said it would accept the investigators findings. It agreed to the increased 
compensation he had recommended.
Miss F didnt agree with our investigator that this was enough to recognise everything that 
had happened. She said that what shed been through had a terrible impact on her, far more 
than just the time it had taken to get her money back. She thought Halifax had to accept a 
greater share of the blame for this.
So her complaint has been referred to me to reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge everything Miss F has explained about the impact this scam 
has had on her and her family. This was a cruel and sophisticated fraud ultimately designed 
to steal Miss Fs money and it must have been extremely distressing to have lost such a 
large sum. I have considerable sympathy for the situation Miss F has ended up in.
Halifax has now agreed to refund Miss F in full for the amount she lost. Its also agreed to 
pay interest on that amount at the account rate. 
The issue outstanding, and which I must decide here, is what would be a fair award for the 
distress and inconvenience Miss F suffered as a result of Halifaxs handling of the matter.Ive carefully reviewed everything weve been sent by both sides to this complaint. Rightly, 
Miss F acknowledges that the original source of her distress was the scammer who 
defrauded her. Had she not been the innocent victim of this crime, then she would not have 
had to go through everything that followed.
Of course, I cannot fairly hold Halifax responsible for the actions of the criminals who stole 
Miss Fs money. But there is part of what happened over which Halifax did have control.
So in thinking about what is fair here, I need to consider the actions Halifax took and decide 
what share of the impact Miss F suffered was due to Halifax alone  and not a result of the 
criminal actions of the scammer or any other reasons.
Miss F called Halifax on 24 February having just made the second payment and explains 
that (despite speaking to the call handler at some length) she wasnt put through to the fraud 
team. Had this happened, she believes that the scam could have been uncovered at that 
point.
The evidence does indicate that the second payment could have been stopped when Miss F 
spoke to Halifax that day. It had only just been made by Miss F, and it appears had not yet 
been released. But based on what Ive seen I think it was very unlikely that the previous 
payment (the £20,000 payment) could have been stopped at that point  because it had 
been sent three days earlier. I think its also unlikely that the first payment could have been 
recovered three days after it had been sent - the nature of this type of scam is for the 
scammers to quickly move the funds on. Theres nothing to indicate it might have been any 
different here.
So on balance, I think that while the smaller payment perhaps could have been stopped on 
24 February, it doesnt appear the larger first payment would have been. 
That means I dont think the whole scam could have been prevented had Halifax transferred 
Miss Fs call to the fraud team when she first spoke to the bank. The bulk of the money 
would still, unfortunately, have been lost.
Ive also considered how Halifax handled the later scam report  when it had become 
evident Miss F was the victim of an APP scam. As Ive explained above, Halifax is a 
signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse APP scam victims in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. Of course, that doesnt mean it must always reimburse 
scam victims, there will be some instances where those limited number of circumstances are 
applicable. The CRM Code recognises that a bank will need to review each scam report, and 
it allows time for the bank to assess this. 
Here, Halifax initially said it wouldnt reimburse Miss F. That outcome was only changed 
around one year after the date of the payments, and around six months after the scam was 
uncovered.
Miss F explains about just how much this delay affected her. Not long after shed made the 
payments, the impact of Covid-19 meant her ability to continue her normal work was halted, 
and this meant she had to rely on her existing savings to get by. Being without the money for 
the time she was made this harder than it needed to be.
She has also explained in detail about how the handling of her scam claim made her feel. As 
an innocent victim of a scam this was already a very difficult time. She explains she felt the 
onus was fully on her to keep contacting the bank to find out what was happening, to the 
point that she thought if she hadnt kept chasing, the bank would have forgotten about her.Its widely recognised that scams, such as this one, often have a devasting effect on the 
victims. So a lot is expected of a bank (both under the CRM code and otherwise) in 
supporting the victim of a scam, and not meeting those expectations can compound the 
distress caused to the victim.
Im persuaded by the evidence here that Halifax fell significantly short of that expectation in 
Miss Fs case. While undoubtably the bank faced challenges due to the disruption caused by 
Covid-19, I do not find that reasonably justifies the failure to keep Miss F adequately 
updated. Similarly, I dont find that can justify the initial outcome the bank reached.
All of this can only have added to what already was a very difficult time. Significantly, the 
worry and stress had a big impact on Miss Fs health (which I will not detail here). Again, 
some of that is down to the scammers and not attributable to the bank. 
But I am persuaded that the banks handling of the matter made things worse for Miss F in 
terms of her physical and mental wellbeing as well as financially. I have carefully considered 
everything shes said about this and taken it all into account here.
In thinking about what is a fair and reasonable outcome in these circumstances, I have taken 
careful account of our approach to these types of awards, and our published guidance. 
Miss F has described the impact in detail, and I am persuaded that Halifax could have 
mitigated this impact had it acted as it should have done sooner than it actually did. Our 
investigator didnt think Halifaxs original offer to pay £130 was sufficient and recommended 
it should pay Miss F the higher sum of £500.
I know Miss F would like me to award more. Ive carefully considered everything shes told 
us, and I want to emphasise how sorry I am to hear what she has been through. But I have 
to reach what I think is a fair figure in all the circumstances  that includes separating out as 
far as possible what share of the blame should be due to Halifax and thinking about what 
might be most likely to have happened if things had gone differently. I know Miss F 
understands that I cannot fairly blame Halifax for all of her distress  for the reasons Ive set 
out earlier, a lot of what happened was unavoidably down to the criminals who defrauded 
her.
Ive carefully reviewed everything afresh with all of this in mind. Having done so, I think the 
increased figure proposed by our investigator was a fair one. In all the circumstances, I 
consider an award of £500 represents fair and reasonable compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Fs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax and require it to settle her complaint as follows:
- pay Miss F a total of £500 in respect of the material distress and inconvenience 
caused to her by its decision not to refund in full when it first assessed her claim 
under the CRM Code. For clarity, if the banks initial offer of £130 has already been 
paid to Miss F then it should pay the remaining balance of £370 to reach an overall 
figure of £500.
- make this payment within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of my 
final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman