DRN-3423349
Complaint
Mr N has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says
L2G irresponsibly lent him this loan.
Mr N is being assisted with his complaint by a representative.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr N and L2G had told us. And he thought that L2G
hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. Mr Ns representative 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ns complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr N could
afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Mr N with a loan for £290 in August 2019. It had an APR of 1,013.1% and was 
to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £66.28, which meant the total amount to be repaid was 
£1,193.04. 
L2G says it agreed to Mr Ns application after he provided details of his monthly income and 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out 
on Mr N. The information Mr N provided about his income and expenditure showed hed be
able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. But it, in any event,
adjusted Mr Ns declarations to account for what its verification checks showed and this left 
enough for Mr N to be able to make his payments. L2G says, in these circumstances it was 
reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mr Ns representative has said Mr N shouldnt have 
been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr Ns representative and L2G have said. The first thing for 
me to say is that this was Mr Ns first loan with L2G. The information provided does suggest 
Mr N was asked to provide details of his income and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on 
what it was told.
Its fair to say that Mr N had had three previous county court judgements against him. But 
these were all issued more than three years before this loan was provided and I think it is 
reasonable for L2G to have placed less weight on these. Bearing in mind the amount of the 
repayments, the credit search not showing much in the way of recent payment difficulties,  
Mr Ns lack of any previous lending with L2G and the low monthly repayments, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for L2G to rely on the payments being affordable as, on the face of things, 
they did appear to be. Id also add that while it wasnt necessary for L2G to have obtained 
further information before lending, despite having been given the opportunity to do so,        
Mr Ns representative hasnt provided us with anything at all which contradicts the 
disposable income figure L2G arrived at, or more crucially suggests the monthly payments 
were unaffordable. 
I accept that its possible Mr Ns actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information 
gathered. But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything 
wrong in deciding to lend to Mr N - it carried out reasonable checks even though its possible 
the information it was provided with may not have told the whole story. L2G reasonably 
relied on this information and given the amount of the repayments involved and its lack of 
previous history with Mr N, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to provide this loan.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr N and his representative. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint, I would remind L2G of its obligation to exercise
forbearance should Mr N be experiencing difficulty and it choose to collect payments from 
him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman