DRN-4467850
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the delays caused by Mulsanne Insurance Company Limiteds 
claim handling agent, who Ill refer to as P, when handling his claim for a stolen van under 
his Commercial Motor Insurance Vehicle policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Os complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The terms of Mr Os policy required him to co-operate with Mulsanne and P. And  
provided their requests were reasonable as part of investigating his claim  Mulsanne 
and P were entitled to expect him to do this. 
I think the time it took P to allocate a claim investigator was reasonable, bearing in 
mind when  Mr O submitted all the documents P required and the keys to his van.
I think any delays after this were largely because of Mr Os objections to a second 
interview taking place. 
I think Ps request for a further interview was reasonable and I think it provided the 
information needed for Mr O to understand why this was needed. And I think it was 
entitled to expect him to co-operate before it could consider his claim further. 
I appreciate Mr O suggested our investigator was not in possession of the full facts, 
but Im satisfied that the evidence Mulsanne has provided is complete and it shows 
its and Ps approach was reasonable.
It therefore follows that I do not consider it is appropriate for me to uphold Mr Os complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Os complaint about Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman