DRN-3393653
The complaint
Miss S complains about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post office Financial Services 
(Post Office) for its decision to require identification and address documentation in addition 
to a Power of Attorney. Miss S wants Post Office to follow her instructions to close her 
account. 
What happened
Miss S complains via her representative, who holds a Power of Attorney. Miss S is a long-
standing customer of Post Office and the Power of Attorney was granted to her 
representative in early 2020. 
Miss Ss representative provided the Power of Attorney to Post Office and asked that Miss 
Ss Post Office account be closed, and her funds transferred to her bank account held 
elsewhere. 
Post Office requested additional information from Miss S and her representative, including 
evidence of Miss Ss current residential address. 
Miss Ss representative does not wish to provide this information and does not consider it 
necessary. She points out that other institutions have acted on the basis of the Power of 
Attorney only and she thinks it is excessive to require additional information. 
Miss Ss representative complained to Post Office and received a final response in May 
2021. This did not uphold her complaint and explained that the additional information 
required was to meet its anti-money laundering responsibilities. 
Miss S and her representative were not happy with this and contacted us.
Our investigator has looked into this matter and did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. She considered that businesses are entitled to set their own procedures about 
knowing their customers, and that Post Office had acted in line with its policy. 
Miss S and her representative did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman 
decision. They argued that the correspondence address of Miss S had not changed so they 
considered it unnecessary to provide evidence again, or to provide further information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Miss S and her representative have found a requirement for additional 
information and evidence frustrating. It is clear that there is a considerable amount of 
administration involved in obtaining and managing a Power of Attorney so anything 
additional that is needed may feel unnecessary. 
I do, however, agree with my colleagues view and I do not uphold this complaint.
Our role is not to dictate to businesses how they should carry out their business and how 
they should meet the regulatory requirements which are placed on them. Our role is to 
consider whether a business has treated an individual fairly and reasonably in a particular 
situation, and if it has not, we consider how that should be put right. 
In this situation, the business has demonstrated that it requires information in the same way 
as it would a new customer in respect of both the donor of the Power of Attorney and the 
representative. This policy has been applied evenly, and appropriately to Miss S in this 
situation. 
I have not seen evidence to suggest that Miss S and her representative face any particular 
difficulty in meeting the requirement, or that they have needed alternative arrangements. If 
they did, I would expect them to alert the Post Office and then the Post Office could work 
with them in order to find a way to satisfy the Know Your Customer requirement using other 
information.
In the absence of this being a particular problem for Miss S, however, I do not think that the 
business has acted unfairly in requiring that its process be followed. Consequently, I do not 
uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint and do not ask Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman