DRN-3578891
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim he made on his former employers income 
protection scheme. 
What happened
Mr E was a member of his former employers group income protection scheme. He was 
signed off work in May 2021 by his GP 
He claimed on the group policy, but Unum declined the claim on the basis that Mr E hadnt 
met the policy definition of incapacity. They said the medical evidence didnt suggest hed be 
unable to perform his sedentary role. 
Mr E made a complaint, but Unum maintained their decision to decline the claim. So, Mr E 
made a complaint to our service. Mr E hasnt returned to work since May 2021 and has since 
left his employment.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
Unum had fairly declined the claim based on the available medical evidence and policy 
terms. Mr E didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
In summary, he says that he provided evidence that between May and November 2021 he 
was unfit for work and this was confirmed by his GP and consultant physicians. He says he 
doesnt know what else he could have provided and feels that Unum would have always 
declined the claim.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy and terms and conditions 
The policy terms and conditions say that in order to claim Mr E needs to meet the policy 
definition of incapacity. A member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied they are: 
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
dues of the insured occupation and are 
Not performing any occupation. 
Insured occupation means the trade, profession or general role that the member was 
actively undertaking for you immediately prior to incapacity. 
Material and substantial duties means the duties that are normally required for the 
performance of the members insured occupation and which cannot be reasonably omitted 
or modified. 
Did Unum unfairly decline the claim?
Its for Mr E to demonstrate that he has a valid claim under the policy, not for Unum to show 
he doesnt. 
Im not upholding this complaint because I think it was fair and reasonable for Unum to 
decline the claim. I say that because: 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to conclude that Mr E didnt meet the 
policy definition of incapacity. Its not disputed that Mr E was diagnosed with, and 
experienced symptoms of, medical conditions. But the medical evidence doesnt give 
a clear picture of how it specifically impacted his ability to carry out his insured 
occupation throughout the deferred period. Thats what is required by the contract of 
insurance as set out in the policy terms.  
Mr Es GP signed him off work throughout the deferred period. But being signed off 
by a GP doesnt automatically mean the policy definition of incapacity is met. Thats 
because the policy requires Mr E to be unable to carry out the material and 
substantial duties of his role, which cant reasonably be omitted or modified. So, 
theres a specific policy term which Mr E needs to fulfil in order to successfully claim. 
Ive taken into account the evidence from Mr Es consultants too, including the 
information about his physical and mental health. Mr E was experiencing symptoms 
from various conditions including breathing difficulties, difficulties speaking and back 
pain. But theres little information or insight in the medical evidence about how this 
would impact his ability to do his insured occupation. For example, although Mr Es 
consultant noted he was struggling with speaking its unclear what the severity and 
duration of those symptoms were and how it might impact his job, including if 
adjustments were made. And, although Mr E had a working diagnosis of Post 
Traumatic Stress Disorder, theres very limited information about the basis for that 
diagnosis and how the condition would impact on him at work. 
I appreciate that Mr E feels Unum would have always rejected the claim. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest that Unum was always of the view that the claim should be 
rejected. The evidence Ive seen confirms the claim was fairly assessed and 
considered. 
Mr E questioned what more evidence he could provide. Its not for Unum, or me, to 
say what evidence would lead to a successful claim. My role is to decide whether, 
based on the evidence Mr E submitted, it was fair for Unum to decline the claim. I 
think it was for the reasons Ive explained.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman