DRN-1573930
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F had insured a car under a motor insurance policy with EUI Limited trading as 
Admiral (Admiral). Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Admiral declined their motor theft claim, 
and with the way in which Admiral handled that claim.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr F parked his car outside an industrial unit and left the engine running 
while he collected items from the owner of the unit. Mr Fs car was a key-less model. Whilst 
Mr F was standing with his back to the car at the edge of the unit, the car was stolen and 
driven away at speed.
Mr F reported the theft to the police immediately using the unit owners phone as he had left 
his phone on charge in the car. And Mr F contacted Admiral the following day, to report the 
theft.
Admiral instructed a third party (B) to carry out an investigation into the circumstances of 
the theft. Admiral instructed B to obtain statements from Mr F and the owner of the unit, and 
to provide a report and opinion on the loss.
B provided its report and opinion to Admiral. The report said B considered the theft was 
genuine but provided an opinion that Mr F was likely to have been further away from the car 
than the two steps he had suggested.
Admiral spoke with the service department of a main dealer for the car manufacturer and 
asked if the car engine would still run without the key in the car. Admiral was told it would, 
and that it would continue to run until the engine was switched off or the car ran out of fuel. 
The main dealer explained if it was switched off, the car wouldnt re-start without the key 
being in the vicinity of the vehicle. 
Admiral then wrote to Mr F and told him it wouldnt be covering the claim. Admiral referred 
Mr F to the policy terms and conditions and explained that it wouldnt pay a claim if the car in 
question had been left unlocked or unsecured. It also said Mr F had failed to protect the car 
from loss or damage.
Mr F complained to Admiral about its decision to decline the claim, the length of time it took 
to deal with the claim, and said he felt that Admiral made him feel like a criminal when it 
instructed B to interview him.
Admiral upheld Mr Fs concern that the investigation was delayed, and it has paid Mr F £100 
for the distress and inconvenience its delay in dealing with the claim caused him. But it 
considered its decision to investigate the claim in the way it did was a reasonable one. 
Admiral referred Mr F to the policy conditions it had relied on in its declinature latter in April 
to explain why it wouldnt pay the claim. And confirmed it felt it had made the right decision in 
declining Mr Fs claim. 
Mr F was unhappy with the final response from Admiral and brought the complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator reviewed the evidence both parties provided and thought that it was fair and 
reasonable for Admiral to decline the claim based on a breach of the policy condition that 
said the car needed to be secured for a claim to be paid. The investigator thought there were 
unnecessary delays in dealing with the claim and that Admiral should pay Mr F £200, in 
addition to the £100 it has already paid, for the distress and inconvenience this delay caused 
him.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As it is the crux of Mr Fs complaint, I will deal with Admirals decision to decline the claim 
first.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy, to see what cover is provided. On 
doing so I can see Mr Fs policy does provide cover for theft of his vehicle. But, Im also 
aware this is subject to some restrictions. Mr Fs policy contains a condition which explains 
that Mr F must protect his car from loss or damage  including removing the keys or secure 
any device that allows access to {the} vehicle; if it is left unoccupied.
The same section of the policy booklet says If an incident happens, and you or any person 
covered by this policy fails to protect your vehicle from loss or damage throughyour 
vehicle being left unlocked or unsecured. No cover under the policy will be provided
Admiral has declined the claim because it said Mr F failed to protect the car from loss or 
damage, and left the car unlocked or unsecured. So, Ive considered whether Admiral acted 
reasonably in using these conditions to decline Mr Fs claim. 
Where an insurer has turned down a claim for theft, I look at the evidence used by the 
insurer to support its decision and then consider whether the insurer has applied the 
conditions in its policy fairly and reasonably. As Admiral seeks to rely on the above policy 
condition, it needs to provide evidence to show it was likely the above conditions were 
breached. So, Ive looked to see whether Admiral has shown this. 
The evidence I have considered are the statements from Mr F and the unit owner (contained 
with the report B provided) and the comments from the main dealership service department. 
I should make it clear at this stage that although B provided an opinion within its report, I am 
satisfied it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on the statements provided by Mr F and the 
unit owner when it decided to decline the claim. I have also considered the policy documents 
of Mr Fs insurance policy with Admiral.
I have seen Mr Fs statement to B that he didnt leave the keys in the car. Im satisfied that 
this was the case, because both keys were provided to Admiral to inspect. However, the car 
was key-less, which meant that if the engine was left running it would continue to run until 
the engine stopped and then would only re-start if the key was close by. The main dealer 
explained that if the car engine was running, the car would believe the key was inside. So, it 
would be possible to drive the car away. I appreciate Mr F considers he didnt leave his car unattended. And I have read Mr Fs 
response to the thoughts of the investigator and noted his referral to the case studies 
contained on our website. But I should make it clear that my role is to consider whether 
Admiral applied the policy term and conditions fairly and reasonably in the specific 
circumstances of this case. 
According to the statements from Mr F and the unit owner, Mr F didnt have the car in his 
view for what is likely to have been two to three minutes. The statements havent persuaded 
me there were any exceptional reasons why Mr F would reasonably have had to leave the 
vehicle unattended, unlocked and with the engine running for as long as he did. I have a 
great deal of empathy with Mr F, and I appreciate the theft has caused him a financial loss 
and a good deal of inconvenience. However, Im satisfied that Admirals assessment Mr F 
had breached the conditions of the policy by leaving the car unlocked, unattended and with 
the engine running, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Having decided it was reasonable for Admiral to decline the claim, I will now consider 
whether the way Admiral carried out its investigation into the loss was fair. This includes its 
decision to ask B to obtain statements from Mr F and the unit owner, and to provide it with a 
report on the circumstances surrounding the theft. 
Although I can empathise with Mr F here, Admiral wanted to obtain statements and an 
inspection of the site where the theft took place before it decided the claim. It said in the 
instruction to B that there were some discrepancies in the versions of events Mr F had 
provided, including how far he was away from the car when it was stolen. Under these 
circumstances I consider it was reasonable for Admiral to obtain a report from B.
I can understand why Mr F may have felt like a criminal when he was asked to complete a 
statement by B. However, I would expect Admiral to thoroughly review the circumstances of 
the claim in order to validate a loss. It is common for an insurer to obtain statements and 
sometimes appoint third parties to assist it with a claim, for it to decide whether there is 
cover under the policy. So, I dont think Admiral did anything wrong here. 
Mr F has said he feels the time taken to deal with his claim was unreasonable. So, Ive 
looked at what happened, and when, to see whether there were any avoidable delays, or 
times when Admiral could have provided a better service to Mr F.
Admiral decided to instruct B to obtain statements, inspect the site and produce a report 
shortly after the loss was reported. It told Mr F of this decision and instructed B by post on 20 
March 2019. I have seen that on 22 March 2019, B called Admiral and said it hadnt received 
the instructions, so Admiral resent them by post the same day. On 25 March 2019, Admiral 
called B to check the instructions had been received and B confirmed it hadnt received 
them. Admiral then emailed the instructions to B, who received the instruction on 26 March 
2019, but then B had to request clarification of the instruction on 29 March 2019.
I can see that Admiral chased B for the report on 1 April and B confirmed the interview with 
Mr F was planned for 5 April 2019. Admiral chased the report again on 15 April 2019 and B 
told it the report should be available within the next three to seven days. The report was 
dated 18 April 2019 and Admiral reviewed it on 23 April 2019.
Admiral made the decision to decline the claim shortly after it reviewed the report and told Mr 
F soon after. 
There was an initial delay in Admiral requesting a report from B, and then a further delay 
because the report took almost a week to reach B as it was sent by post. There was a 
further delay of three days when B had to contact Admiral to clarify if it was required to interview the unit owner too because the instruction wasnt clear. Then, although the report 
was dated 18 April 2019, Admiral didnt review it until 23 April 2019 before declining the 
claim on 24 April 2019.
Admiral has an obligation under the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
8.1.1 to handle claims promptly and fairly. These delays, when looked at individually, may 
not appear significant, but to Mr F, who was without his car during this period, they would 
have added to his distress and inconvenience. I have decided that Admiral couldve handled 
the referral to B more effectively than it did and better managed how the report was sent and 
reviewed. Therefore, I have upheld this part of the complaint.
I appreciate that Admiral has already paid Mr F £100 for the delay in making its decision to 
decline the claim, but I dont agree the £100 reflects the distress and inconvenience it 
caused Mr F. It failed to deal promptly when it knew B hadnt received the report. I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for Admiral to send the request by email once it knew the one 
sent in the post had not arrived. If Admiral had managed this more effectively, it would 
reasonably have taken less than five weeks for Mr F to be told the claim was declined. 
Therefore, I will be asking Admiral to pay Mr F a further £200 to reflect the impact this 
avoidable delay had on him at a very stressful time.
I have noted Mr Fs comment that Admirals internal records indicate it was prepared to offer 
him £500 for the delays. However, having reviewed the records, Admiral say this was never 
approved. And I cant see this offer was made by Admiral. At the time, Admiral had offered 
£50 to Mr F, and it seems that when this was sent to be approved the record referred to 
£500 in error. Admiral later approved an increased offer of £100, and paid this to Mr F. I can 
appreciate Mr F feels this rubs salt in the wounds, but this remedy was for the delays in 
dealing with the claim, and not in any way linked to the reason Admiral declined the claim.
Mr F has told me he is unhappy that as part of the Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) he 
made to Admiral, it didnt provide him with an unredacted version of Bs report on the loss. 
Admiral only redacted the views of the representative from B. I have based my final decision 
using the statements B obtained from Mr F and the unit holder, and I havent considered the 
views of B. Mr F has therefore seen the parts of the report I have relied on. I therefore 
consider that any concern Mr F has about whether Admiral satisfied his DSAR is a matter for 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to consider and not this office, so I havent 
considered this matter here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Fs complaints and that EUI Limited trading as 
Admiral must pay Mr F an additional sum of £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him when it delayed its decision to decline the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman