DRN-3345330
The complaint
Mr O complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) when he 
requested a payment holiday on his personal loan due to the global pandemic. Hes also 
unhappy that they recorded adverse information on his credit file about a subsequent 
payment break agreed.
What happened
Mr O has a personal loan with HSBC. He contacted them in March 2020 as his income had 
been adversely affected by the impact of the global pandemic. He completed an online 
application for a payment holiday.
Mr O called HSBC in early May 2020. He wanted to know if his payment holiday had been 
agreed. He asked them to reverse the loan repayment due that day as he couldnt afford it. 
Mr O called HSBC again in June 2020. He was unhappy as he still hadnt received any 
confirmation about his payment holiday application. Hed missed payments and was being 
chased by HSBC for these. Each time hed called previously hed been told not to worry 
about this. HSBC reversed payments collected and agreed to backdate the payment holiday 
to cover May, June and July 2020. They also confirmed theyd amend his credit file to 
remove any adverse information.
Mr O says he continued to receive calls regarding missed payments when he thought there 
was a payment holiday in place. He says this continued throughout 2020. So, he complained 
again to HSBC in February 2021. He said that HSBC had recorded adverse information on 
his credit file when they shouldnt have.
In HSBCs response to Mr Os complaint, they said no adverse information had been 
recorded for the payment holiday between May and July 2020. But they had no record of Mr 
O requesting the payment holiday be extended in July. He hadnt contacted them to extend 
the payment holiday until October 2020. 
HSBC said Mr O completed an income and expenditure form in October 2020 to support his 
request. But as hed continued to make payments once the payment holiday had expired, he 
wasnt eligible for a further payment holiday. Theyd agreed a payment break arrangement 
for three months which would be reflected on his credit file as an agreement.
HSBC agreed that this arrangement wasnt immediately set up and his payment direct debit 
was claimed in December 2020 when it shouldnt have been. They reversed this payment 
and correctly put the agreed plan in place. They also paid Mr O compensation of £30 for 
their mistake.
They said theyd ensure his credit file only reflected the payment break arrangement. In 
recognition of the service hed received and their error, HSBC offered to clear 2 months loan 
repayments, asking him to confirm if he accepted this.
Mr O wasnt happy with HSBCs response to his complaint. He wanted them to remove any 
adverse information reported on his credit file. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator considered all the facts and information and thought HSBC had responded 
fairly and reasonably to Mr Os complaint. Mr O didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. 
He thought the information recorded on his credit file by HSBC was wrong. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Os complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
Further guidance was issued by the FCA in July 2020. This extended these measures, and 
where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised 
to freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months.
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty. But 
it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. Reporting to credit reference 
agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum payment deferrals.
HSBCs records show that Mr Os payment deferral request was received in early April 2020. 
But it seems they hadnt responded to this before Mr O contacted them again in May 2020. I 
appreciate that Mr O would have been concerned and frustrated. HSBC wouldve received 
many requests for support under the FCAs special guidance. It was important that Mr O 
continued to meet his contractual payment obligations until a formal agreement had been 
communicated. 
HSBC ultimately agreed a payment deferral covering May to July 2020. This was confirmed 
to Mr O in a letter HSBC sent to him on 25 July 2020 and meant his repayments would 
restart in August 2020. Mr O has provided a copy of his credit file which confirms that theres 
nothing adverse recorded by HSBC for 2020. So, HSBC appear to have met their obligations 
under the FCAs special guidance. 
Theres no record of Mr O having contacted HSBC again in either July or August 2020, 
following expiry of the payment deferral. A statement of Mr Os personal loan provided by 
HSBC shows that he continued to make his normal monthly repayments once the payment 
deferral expired. 
HSBCs files show that Mr O completed an income and expenditure form in October 2020. 
This showed that his income was still being impacted and he had a shortfall of almost £300 
each month against his outgoings. HSBC discussed this with Mr O in November 2020. 
Because hed restarted his loan repayments, it meant he no longer qualified for further 
support under the FCAs special guidance. 
In situations where support under the FCAs special guidance has been exhausted, HSBC 
would be expected to consider alternative forms of forbearance. The key rules and standard 
that apply are set down in the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) Section 7. 
These can include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments to 
be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from an unexpected reduction in income.
HSBC agreed a three-month payment break covering November 2020 to January 2021. But 
this support didnt fall under the FCAs special guidance. So, they would be required to report this arrangement, together with any arrears, on Mr Os credit file. HSBCs notes show 
that they told Mr O this when the payment break was agreed. 
Unfortunately, HSBC failed to put the agreement in place promptly. This resulted in arrears 
and calls to Mr O. When he pointed this out to HSBC, they corrected their mistake and paid 
compensation to Mr O of £30. And I think this feels fair in these circumstances. 
When Mr O discovered that HSBC were reporting this arrangement together with any arrears 
accruing, he complained to them. He didnt think this is what had been agreed. Its important 
to recognise theres a difference between the FCAs special guidance and the payment 
break plan agreed by HSBC. The FCAs guidance ensures arrears arent reported. Where 
alternative support is agreed, HSBC are obliged to report factually correct information to 
credit reference agencies. So, while they agreed a payment break, arrears would still accrue 
under the personal loans regulated agreement for payments not made. This is reported for 
each month that any arrears remain outstanding, regardless of when they occurred. 
In response to Mr Os complaint, HSBC agreed to re-age his loan. This means that the 
arrears are removed and added to the end of the loan. HSBC have confirmed that theyve 
ensured an arrangement is reported to the credit reference agencies from November 2020 to 
February 2021 for the payment break. They have also confirmed that the account re-aging 
was agreed in July 2021 and completed in October 2021. This means Mr Os credit file 
should no longer show any arrears relating to the payment break agreed  only the 
arrangement, and the loan will appear as up to date.
In their final response, HSBC also offered to clear two months loan repayment. Should Mr O 
wish to accept this, he should respond direct to HSBC.
I asked Mr O to confirm that the necessary amendments have been made to his credit file. 
Unfortunately, he hasnt responded. So, if there are any discrepancies, I would urge him to 
contact HSBC to further address these. 
I know that Mr Os main concerns relate to his credit file. Where any arrangement is agreed 
outside of the FCAs special guidance and the contractual terms of the loan, HSBC are 
obliged to report this. I feel that the steps HSBC have taken are fair in these circumstances. I 
appreciate Mr O may be disappointed, but I wont be asking them to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman