DRN-2086106
The complaint
Mr W complains that he didnt receive his annual mortgage statements from HSBC UK Bank 
Plc and that an application for a mortgage product wasnt processed. Mr W has been paying 
a higher interest rate than he should have been on and would like compensated for the 
higher payments hes been making and his time.
What happened
Mr W says the he is almost positive that he didnt receive his annual mortgage statement 
from HSBC for 2018 or 2019. The last one he received was in June 2017. Mr W believes 
that this may have been triggered when he applied for a remortgage with HSBC in 2017 to 
take advantage of a lower interest rate. This wasnt completed although Mr W sent in 
copious documentation to satisfy HSBC. When Mr W complained, HSBC sent him the 
statements but also referred to correspondence dated August 2018 and November 2018 
which he also didnt get. Mr W says he is a very organised person who files documents in 
lever arch files so its extremely unlikely that he mislaid these documents.
HSBC says that it sent Mr W the annual mortgage statements every June since 2012. It says 
that Mr W began a rate change in April 2017 but as it didnt receive all the necessary 
documents the rate never changed. It also says that it wrote to Mr W in August and 
November 2018 telling Mr W that the rate had changed following a change in the base rate 
as Mr Ws mortgage is on a lifetime tracker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she said 
correspondence issued by HSBC was correctly addressed and Mr W hadnt provided HSBC 
with all the documents it requested to complete the application for the new mortgage 
product. Mr W disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W clearly retains all the correspondence he receives from HSBC and so was perturbed 
when he didnt receive the correspondence that he regularly received in June 2018 and 
2019. HSBC has retained copies on its system of letters sending out the annual statements 
which are properly addressed to Mr W as were annual statements before 2018. I also note 
that those statements would be available to Mr W online from when Mr W registered for 
online banking in April 2017. 
In order to uphold this complaint, I need to find that HSBC has done something wrong but as 
these annual statements and letters were properly addressed and sent, I cant fairly blame 
HSBC even if the letters werent received by Mr W. HSBC agrees that it sent a letter in large 
print but that was no indication that HSBC held an incorrect address for Mr W. I also note 
that in response to his complaint, HSBC has now provided those annual statements which 
Mr W can retain with his records. 
If I turn to the application for the interest rate product, Mr W clearly began an application in 
April 2017 for a different product. From looking at the HSBC file, it seems that Mr W provided 
certain documentation, but HSBC asked for further documents which that were relevant to 
Mr Ws financial position and so relevant to the application. These dont appear to have been 
supplied, and, so, the application didnt progress. But I cant fairly blame HSBC for that. For 
the above reasons I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman