DRN-2405467
The complaint
Mrs Ls complaint is about the handling of a claim made under her central heating insurance
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in November 2020, part of which is copied 
below: 
On 30 December 2018, Mrs L called British Gas as her radiators were not working. Her
daughter had apparently bled them the day before but they were still not heating up. British
Gas sent one of its contractors out the next day. He did not have a radiator key and so could
not check if they needed bleeding again. He said that a power flush was needed which Mrs L
would have to pay  for, as it was not covered by the policy. Mrs L was left without
heating for several days until the quote of £685 for the power flush was sent out to her.
When she received this Mrs L called to query the cost and why this problem was not covered
under the policy.
Mrs L was unhappy with the response and so decided to cancel her policy with British Gas.
She arranged for an independent contractor to carry out the power flush at a cost of £358.
While carrying out the power flush, the contractor told Mrs L that the tap to the feeder tank in
the loft had been turned off, so it was empty. He told her this was why the radiators had
stopped working, because there was not enough water in the system. Mrs L says she thinks
the tap in the loft was turned off by a British Gas engineer a few years earlier. She recalls
calling an engineer out due to the overflow on my heating system dripping from the loft, and
she says he turned the tap off, rather than replace the ballcock.
Mrs L is very unhappy about this. She says the power flush was not necessary and in
addition, when the tap to the feeder tank was turned on and the system was re-filled she
discovered that the British Gas engineer had loosened a pipe in my airing cupboard which
sprayed water. Luckily Mrs Ls daughter caught it in time, so the contractor could tighten the
pipe, which prevented what could have been considerable water damage.
Also once the power flush done was done, Mrs Ls contractor said the pump needed
replacing and water was pouring out of the overflow, because the ball tap in the feeder tank
was faulty. Mrs L says this water stained her back wall. Mrs L had the ball tap replaced by a
relative. But she is unhappy she incurred the expenses of the power flush and the new
pump, which she says would not have been necessary had the engineer checked the feeder
tank.
Mrs L also says she had to call British Gas several times regarding this issue, it has
repeatedly failed to respond to her calls, or if it does it is with a delay and all responses have
been unhelpful. The policy also says it covers radiators and they will be checked, but she
doesnt recall them ever being looked at during any annual service.
British Gas says the engineer that attended in December 2018, was using a spare van which
is why he didnt have a radiator key. The engineer took a water sample and found it to be
thick black and his magnet stuck to various pipes in the airing cupboard. This is why a power
flush was recommended. Mrs Ls engineer must have left the feeder tank tap on, after doing
the power flush, for water to have escaped via the overflow pipe. But the water should by
then have been clean and not caused any staining to the outside wall.
It has no record of any of its engineers having turned off the tap to the feeder tank and no
record of any call out for a problem with this tank or the ball tap. British Gas also says it
would not check these parts of the system during a normal annual service and so denies its
engineers turned this off.
British Gas also says the pump would normally need to be removed to do the power flush
and it probably needed to be replaced because it was clogged up with sludge and debris
from the water in the system. It offered to replace the ballcock but Mrs L refused this and it
offered £50 as a goodwill gesture.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think there was enough evidence
that British Gas had turned off the stop tap. He said Mrs L had chosen to go ahead with the
power flush and it is likely this had a positive effect on her heating system overall, so he
didnt think the cost of this should be reimbursed, or that it was wrong for British Gas to have
recommended it.
The investigator did however agree that the engineer did not investigate the problem with the
heating properly - he was called out due to a problem with the radiators and yet still came
without a radiator key  and the investigator felt that the engineer should have found the stop
tap issue. He therefore recommended that British Gas pay an additional £100 compensation
(£150 in total).
Mrs L accepted the investigators assessment but British Gas does not, so the matter has
been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L is adamant that it must have been British Gas that turned off the stop tap. She recalls
a problem with an overflow pipe that she is sure that British Gas came out to resolve. The
records provided by British Gas show that there were three entries for 2015 but none of
which appear to be about the overflow pipe. However, there are only very brief notes about
each attendance and British Gas has not provided copies of all its call notes, which would
record what Mrs L reported to it.
Mrs L has had cover with British Gas for several decades and it is unlikely in my opinion
therefore that she would have called anyone else out to deal with a problem with her heating
system. In addition, she had a stroke a few years ago and it is therefore unlikely she turned
the stop tap off herself. Overall, it is unlikely that anyone other than British Gas turned off the
tap to the feeder tank located in the attic. In any event, the engineer that attended in
December 2018 should have investigated properly  including by having a radiator key - and
it would have been a simple matter to find that there was not enough water in the system
and restore some heating.
I have to consider what would have happened had he done so. It is possible the power flush
would not have been needed. However, it does appear that the water in the system was
contaminated and this might still have been required. So, I am not persuaded that British
Gas needs to reimburse this cost. However, it meant Mrs L was left for around a week with
inadequate heating, which could have been avoided. I consider that some compensation isappropriate for this.
In addition, the pump and the ballcock needed to be replaced. Mrs L says this meant that
water was escaping from the overflow and caused staining to her outside wall. I am not
persuaded British Gas should pay to repaint the affected area, as this is might have
happened at any time, given the ballcock needed replacing.
However, both these parts would have been covered by the policy, had Mrs L not cancelled
it. She only cancelled it in dissatisfaction at the service provided in relation to this claim. I
therefore consider it reasonable for British Gas to reimburse the cost of installing the new
pump, or arrange for it to be replaced if it has not yet been replaced. I have not seen any
evidence of the cost of that and so Mrs L would need to provide that.
I note Mrs Ls brother fitted the new ball tap for her free of charge but consider British Gas
should pay the amount of £50 it offered towards this.
Mrs L says British Gass engineer left a pipe loose in the airing cupboard, which started
leaking. She says her engineer was able to stop it before any significant damage was done.
British Gas has not disputed this and it appears its engineer did test pipes in the airing
cupboard and may have taken the water sample from a pipe in there. I am therefore
satisfied that this could also have been avoided.
Finally, Mrs L also says the annual services have never included checking the radiators. My
understanding is that an annual boiler service would not normally entail checking all the
radiators although I note that the annual service visit checklist provided by British Gas
includes radiators and visible pipework checked for water leaks and operation. Mrs L says
that one radiator in particular has not worked properly for some time before this claim. It
would have been preferable that British Gas checked the radiators periodically but I am not
persuaded that there is [any] particular obligation for it to do so.
As mentioned, some compensation is appropriate and I consider that £200 is warranted to
compensation for the poor service, including being without adequate heating for a week in
January 2019, while waiting for quote for the power flush.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require it to:
1. reimburse the cost of the new pump, together with interest at 8% simple per annum
from the date Mrs L paid for this work, to the date of reimbursement;
2. pay £50 for the new ballcock (if it has not done already); and
3. pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs L by its
handling of her claim.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
evidence they want considered. 
Mrs L has confirmed she accepts my provisional decision. 
British Gas accept that the repairs to the pump and ballcock would have been covered by 
the policy, so agrees to pay for these. However, it does not accept that it should pay any 
additional compensation to Mrs L. British Gas says it did not cause the problem with the 
boiler and, as the power flush was not covered by the policy, Mrs L could have got a quote privately herself if she was not happy to wait for its quote.  It also says that any call notes 
would only have said that an appointment was booked: we would not take the nature of the 
appointment as the call takers are not technical. The engineer would then assess the 
situation on site and would leave job notes. None of the job notes record that the stop tap 
was turned off and none of the jobs attended to would have required this. It therefore denies 
it is responsible for the position Mrs L found herself in. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As stated in my provisional decision, I think it is unlikely that anyone other than a British Gas 
engineer turned off the stop tap in Mrs Ls home, for a number of reasons. However, I also 
acknowledged that the evidence about this was inconclusive. For that reason, it would have 
helped to have British Gass full file in relation to this matter, including the call notes. It says 
these would only have recorded that an appointment had been made. However, from 
experience I know that they would also have recorded the reason why Mrs L was calling 
British Gas out in the first place and her description of the problem. As stated in my 
provisional decision, the job notes are very brief and while British Gas says none of these 
attendances would have necessitated one of its engineers turning of the stop tap, I am not 
convinced that can be concluded from the limited information available. So it would have 
been useful to have the call notes. However, having concluded I think it is likely that a British 
Gas engineer turned this off, this is not the only reason that I concluded it should pay 
compensation to Mrs L. 
I also concluded that the engineer that attended in December 2018 should have investigated 
properly  including by having a radiator key  and if he had done, he would probably  have 
been able to find that there was not enough water in the system and restore some heating 
for Mrs L. Instead she was left with no heating or hot water for around a week, while waiting 
for the power flush quote. I provisionally decided that the power flush might still have been 
needed but it seems likely that some heating and the hot water could have been restored in 
the meantime. It was for this reason that I concluded British Gas should pay £200 
compensation and I am not persuaded to change this. 
I am pleased to note that British Gas has now agreed to pay the other repair costs. So, 
having considered all the evidence and arguments again, I am not persuaded to change my 
provisional findings. 
My final decisionI uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require it to:
1. reimburse the cost of the new pump (upon production of satisfactory evidence of this work 
and the cost), together with interest at 8% simple per annum from the date Mrs L paid for 
this work, to the date of reimbursement; 
2. pay £50 for the new ballcock (if it has not done already); and
3. pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs L by its
handling of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman