DRN-3138300
The complaint
Mr F complains that repair work undertaken by esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas 
Wheels (esure) to his car in November 2017 was unsatisfactory. 
What happened
After an accident in November 2017 Mr F claimed on his motor insurance for damage to his 
car. This included the rear bumper. The bumper was repaired and repainted.
A few months later Mr F noticed that the black paint on the rear bumper had started flaking, 
exposing red paint underneath.
Mr F complained to esure that the paint was flaking on the bumper. esure had the car 
inspected and they said that the car had been involved in another collision causing the paint 
to come off. Based on this esure did not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F took his car to have the bumper inspected by a local main dealer and in this report it 
said; Suspect rear plastic bumper trim has been painted to match the bodywork of the 
vehicle and then painted in black to match the trim colour. This black paint is now flaking, 
revealing the red paint underneath. He sent this report to esure so that it could reconsider 
his complaint, but it still did not up hold his complaint as its engineer felt that the report didnt 
highlight anything new regarding the area of concern.
As Mr F was not happy with esure he brought the complaint to our service. He said that he 
would like the bumper replaced. He wants a guarantee for the work and compensation for 
the inconvenience and the stress caused to him.
Our investigator looked in to the case and upheld Mr Fs complaint and said that esure 
should repair and repaint the bumper and give a guarantee. And that the bumper should be 
replaced if it cant be repaired to satisfactory standards. She said that esure should also pay 
compensation of £100 to Mr F as he didnt get good service.
Mr F accepted our investigators view but as esure are unhappy with it the case has been 
brought to me for a final decision to be made.
In my provisional decision I said
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pictures of the rear bumper have been provided from Mr F that show the bumper before the 
accident, at the time of the accident, immediately after repair and more recent pictures 
where there is evidence of flaking paint. Pictures and a report at the time of the repair were 
provided by esure.
When looking at complaints relating to claims for damage to a vehicle, our service cant
determine how the damage occurred, this is a matter for the experts, insurance companies 
and engineers. Our role is to determine whether the insurer has considered all the available 
evidence and can justify its decision not to pay for repairs.
It is not in question that there is now flaking paint on the rear bumper, the question that 
needs to be resolved is if the flaking was caused by the repairs made by esure or by new 
damage. This will enable the decision to be made about if the flaking paint it is covered by 
the policy five-year repair work guarantee. 
When the car was inspected the engineer said that there were polish marks on the car 
where it had dried up from someone else painting it after the accident repairs had been 
undertaken. This information was reviewed by a member of the engineering services 
department at esure and they agreed that the flaking paint was due to further damage and 
that there were signs of additional repairs so esure would not have to provide cover under 
the repairs warranty. 
Mr F says that there has been no further damage or repairs. He obtained his own report, but 
this report only confirms that there is flaking paint and gives details of how the repairs have 
been undertaken, which esure accept is standard practice, it does not confirm if there has 
been more than one repair in this area. 
There is a clear difference of opinion between Mr F and esure.
After considering all the evidence provided I am unable to say without reasonable doubt if 
the flaking on the bumper is due to further damage or if it is due to failure of the repairs 
completed by esure.
In this case, although I accept that esure have had its own experts look at the damage, I 
think that as Mr F disagrees with its findings, that an independent inspection is required.
Therefore, I intend to uphold Mr Fs complaint and I require esure, at its expense, to obtain 
an impartial report on the flaking paint. It should identify three repairers, local to Mr F, and 
then Mr F should be allowed to select one of these to undertake the inspection. The 
inspection must include the cause of flaking and if there is evidence of more than one repair 
to the bumper of the car.
If the inspection says that there is definite evidence of more than one repair to the bumper 
then I do not require esure to pay for the repairs to the flaking paint.
If the inspection says that there is no evidence of more than one repair, or that they cannot 
be certain, then esure must complete the required work under the repairs warranty in Mr Fs 
policy. If the bumper cant be repaired to satisfactory standards, then it should be replaced. 
A guarantee should be provided to Mr F for the work completed and compensation of £100 
should be paid for the inconvenience caused in trying to get this claim sorted. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
esure responded to say it had received the provisional decision and had no further 
comments to make.
Mr F did not respond.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further evidence has been presented by esure and there has been no response from 
Mr F, I maintain my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels must organise an independent 
inspection of Mr Fs car. If the inspection says that there is no evidence of more than one 
repair, or that they cannot be certain, then esure must complete the required work under the 
repairs warranty in Mr Fs policy. If the bumper cant be repaired to satisfactory standards, 
then it should be replaced. A guarantee should be provided to Mr F for the work completed. 
If the inspection finds that there is definite evidence of more than one repair to the bumper 
then I do not require esure to pay for the repairs to the flaking paint.
I also require esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels to pay Mr F £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused in trying to get this claim sorted.  This must be 
paid regardless of the outcome of an inspection. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman