DRN-2474620
The complaint
Mr S has complained that commission was unfairly paid to The On-Line Partnership Limited 
in relation to his pension plan.
What happened
In 2010, Mr S set up a pension with MetLife following advice from a company Ill refer to as 
Company A. Company A was an appointed representative of The On-Line Partnership but 
this ceased to be the case in early 2015. MetLife says it tried to contact Company A at this 
point for details of an alternative adviser for Mr S. This wasnt successful so it transferred the 
policy to The On-Line Partnership, the directly authorised firm for Mr Ss policy. As a result, 
The On-Line Partnership received the ongoing commission from the policy. This only ended 
in 2019 when Mr S instructed MetLife to stop the commission payments.
Mr S says, in brief, that he had been unaware of, and didnt agree to, commission being paid 
to The On-Line Partnership. He says he didnt receive any service or advice in return for the 
commission. And he says he had never even heard of The On-Line Partnership and the 
advisor it had assigned to him. 
Mr S complained to The On-Line Partnership in 2019. In response, it said Mr S had 
complained too late under the relevant rules. That matter was eventually referred to an 
ombudsman who was satisfied Mr S had complained in time. The On-Line Partnership also 
said it hadnt done anything wrong in receiving commission between 2015 and 2019 
because it was the directly authorised firm and was therefore entitled to receive the 
commission in relation to Mr Ss plan under the rules in place at the time. It also said that it 
would have contacted Mr S at the time but was unable to do so because Company A hadnt 
given it Mr Ss details. 
Our investigator thought The On-Line Partnership could have done more to contact Mr S 
when it started to receive commission in relation to his pension. So he upheld the complaint. 
However, as MetLife had already agreed to compensate Mr S for this matter, he didnt think 
there was anything further for The On-Line Partnership to do other than pay Mr S £100 for 
the trouble and upset it had caused.
Mr S was disappointed with the investigators findings but accepted the compensation that 
was recommended. The On-line Partnership didnt accept the investigators findings and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss pension was established before the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) of 2012. The 
RDR aimed, amongst other things, to increase the transparency and fairness of adviser fees 
and the services provided in return for those fees. But The On-Line Partnership says 
receiving commission when there was no ongoing review service in place  as was the case 
here  wasnt prohibited until after the RDR. So it says it was entitled to receive the legacy 
commission in relation to Mr Ss pension. 
Even so, I can understand why Mr S was upset to find out that commission was being paid 
from his pension to a firm he had little direct involvement with. And The On-Line Partnership 
was still bound by the regulators principles which required it to treat its customers fairly and 
to act in their best interests. Given all this, I think The On-Line Partnership should have done 
more to inform Mr S about what was happening.
In a sense, The On-Line Partnership agrees. It said it would have sent a letter at the time to 
its clients affected by the same issue. It said the letter would have explained what was 
happening and would have given the client the opportunity to contact The On-Line 
Partnership for further advice or policy servicing. So it looks like it did want to keep Mr S 
informed. However, it says it couldnt do so because Company A hadnt recorded Mr Ss 
details on The On-Line Partnerships systems despite it having a contractual obligation to do 
so. 
However, even though there is an argument for Company A doing better here, it still seems 
as though The On-Line Partnership didnt pursue the matter with any degree of urgency. It 
could have, for instance, done more to trace Mr S through MetLife. It was, after all, receiving 
commission payments from MetLife. And I can see MetLife sent The On-Line Partnership 
information about Mr S and his policy, including his policy number. So information and 
money in relation to Mr S was moving between the two organisations. Its letter to Mr S would 
have been all-but-drafted too given it says it sent letters to its other clients impacted by the 
same issue. In the circumstances, therefore, it seems remiss that The On-Line Partnership 
didnt do a bit more to trace Mr S through MetLife. There may have been reasons why this 
course of action couldnt have been pursued or reasons why doing so proved unsuccessful. 
But I havent been provided with any compelling arguments or evidence along these lines. In 
the circumstances, I can only conclude The On-Line Partnership chose not to do anything 
beyond checking its systems for Mr Ss details.
Its worth pointing out at this point that Mr S says he was happy to pay commission to 
Company A  its just the commission paid to The On-Line Partnership that he objects to. I 
believe Mr S on this because his adviser at Company A was a relative. So Im satisfied Mr S 
would have taken action in 2015 if he had been informed about the change in commission 
arrangements.
Thats not to say The On-Line Partnership is necessarily entirely at fault here. As I said 
above, theres an argument that Company A should have done more. And MetLife has also 
taken steps to put things right for Mr S  a point I will come on to shortly. But, for the reasons 
given above, I think there was more that The On-Line Partnership could have done too. 
Mr S also complained to MetLife. It decided to compensate Mr S fully for what happened, 
which Mr S accepted. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to pay further 
compensation to Mr S because he has already been put back into the position he otherwise 
would have been in but for the actions of the various parties involved here.
  
Putting things right
Our investigator thought The On-Line Partnership should pay Mr S £100 for the frustration it 
caused. Given it should have done more to inform Mr S of the change in his commission 
arrangements, and this undoubtedly did cause Mr S frustration, I consider this to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. There is nothing further for The On-Line Partnership to do.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. If it hasnt already done so, 
The On-Line Partnership Limited should pay Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset it caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman