DRN-3890810
The complaint
Miss D complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) cancelled her motor insurance policy and 
wont pay her claim. 
What happened
Miss D made changes to her premium payment dates, but UKI said she missed one 
payment. UKI sent Miss D reminders, a notice of cancellation and then it cancelled the 
policy. Miss D then had an accident and UKI arranged her recovery, but it wont cover the 
costs as no policy was in place. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought UKI 
had correctly cancelled the policy. But he thought it should have told Miss D when she called 
it about the accident that there was no policy in place. Miss D could then have arranged her 
own recovery. And so he thought UKI should pay Miss D £100 compensation for her trouble 
and upset. 
UKI said Miss D was aware the policy had been cancelled and it didnt think it should pay 
Miss D any compensation, but it agreed to do so. Miss D replied that the police had said she 
was insured at the date of the accident. She said she didnt understand why UKI hadnt 
taken the missing payment as she had money in her account. And she said £100 would not 
restore her position. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D has explained that the cancellation, loss of her car and the charges for recovery and 
storage have had a significant financial impact on her. I was sorry to hear this. Our approach 
in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that on page 34 of the policy booklet it states:
What happens if we can't collect your payment
If we have been unable to collect the instalment payment(s) due under your credit 
agreement on the date(s) due, we will write to you in order to give you the opportunity to 
make the payment(s).
If any instalment amount remain(s) unpaid by the date we set out in our letter, we will give 
you 7 days' notice that we will cancel your policy, and inform you in writing when this 
cancellation has taken place.
Miss D contacted UKI to change her payment date. At that point, no missing payments were 
showing on her account. However, a direct debit payment had failed the previous day. So 
Miss D had missed one instalment payment. 
UKI then wrote to Miss D three times seeking the payment. It tried to take the payment twice 
without success. It then sent Miss D a notice that the policy would be cancelled if the 
payment wasnt made. And it then cancelled the policy and wrote to Miss D to tell her this. 
Unfortunately, Miss D had an accident before she received this letter. 
Miss D hasnt said she didnt receive the earlier letters. She said she received the payment 
chasers but didnt respond as she had already called UKI to change her payment date. I 
think Miss D had a responsibility to ensure that her policy was in place. But unfortunately 
Miss D didnt respond to the notice of cancellation either 
I can see that the letters were all sent to the same address as her cancellation notice. So I 
cant say that UKI made a mistake in this. Miss D didnt make the missing payment or 
contact UKI again. And UKI made two attempts to take the payment but this failed. 
And so Im satisfied that UKI made reasonable attempts to contact Miss D about the missed 
payment. And Im satisfied that it then correctly cancelled the policy in keeping with the 
terms and conditions set out above.  
The police attended the accident and Miss D said they told her she was insured. But Im 
satisfied the policy had already been cancelled. I cant hold UKI responsible for what the 
police may have told Miss D.
The accident occurred whilst Miss D was going on holiday. Miss D called UKIs recovery 
service and it recovered her car. But, when she returned, Miss D found that the recovery 
agent was pursuing her for the recovery and storage charges. Miss D said the garage had 
said that this was the insurers responsibility as it had instructed the recovery her car. But I 
dont agree as Miss D didnt have cover in place at the time.
UKI has agreed that it made an error in recovering Miss Ds car. I think its agent could have 
checked that her policy was in place first. But it didnt. If it had, then Miss D could have made 
her own recovery arrangements. 
And UKI has agreed to pay Miss D £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this error 
caused her. I think thats in keeping with our published guidance for the impact the error had. 
And so Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable. I dont require UKI to do anything further.
 
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Miss D £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its level of service.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already agreed 
to do.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman