DRN-4342151
The complaint
Ms S complains about Starling Bank Limited.
She says that Starling didnt do enough when it allowed an account to be opened by a 
fraudster or when it was notified of payments she made to its customer as part of a scam.
Ms S would like Starling to refund her the money she lost.  
What happened
Ms S met O through online dating in early 2018. He appeared to be genuine, and a 
relationship developed. Ms S met with O on several occasions, as did her family, who also 
believed he was genuine.
As the relationship developed, gifts were exchanged, before requests for money for various 
purposes began, which O promised to repay.
In 2021, Ms S pressed O to return the money as she was now struggling as a result and was 
told that O needed to return to his home country for a month to sort out his business affairs 
and release the funds.
However, O then made various excuses for not being able to return, before making claims to 
have been captured by a gang and asked Ms S to pay a ransom. Ms S didnt have the 
money to pay the supposed ransom, after which O appears to have faked being murdered. 
There has been no further contact. 
When Ms S realised she had been the victim of a cruel and callous scam, she complained to 
Starling, as Os bank where some of the money she has lost was sent. 
She says that Starling didnt do enough to identify O may have been a fraudster when it 
allowed O to open an account with it, and that it didnt act quickly enough when it was 
contacted in an attempt to recover funds.
Starling didnt uphold her complaint. It said that all relevant documentation had been 
provided when the account was opened, and that it didnt have any concerns about the 
account. It also explained that no funds remained in the account to recover when the 
payments were disputed.
Ms S then brought her complaint to this Service. Our Investigator looked into things, but 
didnt think that the complaint should be upheld, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
Investigator. 
I know that this will be very disappointing for Ms S as the whole saga has of course had a 
profound effect upon her. However, being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle 
Ms S to a refund from the bank that received her money.
Starling has signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. The CRM 
Code sets out what is expected of the Sending Firm and Receiving Firm (in this case 
Starling) when payments are made or received.
In summary, the obligations for the receiving firm state that firms should:
- Take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being used to launder the 
proceeds of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams.
- Have procedures to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP 
scams; and
- Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they may 
be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond in a timely 
manner.
So, with this in mind, I have carefully considered Starlings obligations here.
Starling has shared information with this Service as part of its obligations under the CRM 
code which has allowed me to investigate Ms Ss complaint  however I am limited to what I 
can share with Ms S due to Data Protection laws, as this information is confidential. 
However, I would like to reassure her that I have carefully reviewed all information provided 
before issuing my decision.
Complaints about receiving banks and any acts or omissions came into our jurisdiction from 
31 January 2019. Ive seen evidence from Starling to show that the receiving bank account 
was opened after 31 January 2019. This means Im able comment on whether there were 
any failings by Starling when the account was opened.
Having looked at the information Starling has provided, I cant say that there was anything 
that should have caused Starling any concern about the way the account was opened or the 
information and identification it was provided with by O. I also dont think that there was any 
indication at the time that the account would be used for fraudulent activity.
Ive gone on to consider whether the activity on the receiving bank account ought reasonably 
to have caused Starling any concern. Whilst data protection reasons mean I cant share any 
information with Ms S, I dont think there was anything relating to the activity on the account 
that should have prompted Starling to have any concerns prior to being notified that Ms S 
was reporting to it that she had been the victim of a scam. 
Finally, Ive considered Starlings actions on receipt of notification of the scam from Ms Ss 
bank. Ms S reported to Starling several months after the payments had been made, and the 
money had already been removed from the account by this time. So, there was nothing 
Starling could have done to protect Ms Ss funds or prevent her loss. Im also satisfied that 
once it was notified of the scam Starling took appropriate action.
I am very sorry to hear of what has happened to Ms S, she has been the victim of a cruel 
and lengthy scam. However, I cant hold Starling responsible for her loss. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman