DRN-3812847
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy that Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans, have reported
missed payments to her credit file.
What happened
Miss W contacted Oakbrook and explained she was struggling to meet the repayments on
her personal loan. In response, Oakbrook applied a 30-day breathing space hold to the
account. Miss W later contacted Oakbrook and asked to be allowed to make reduced
payments of £50 per month to her account for three months. Oakbrook agreed to Miss Ws
request. However, Miss W later noticed that Oakbrook had reported missed payments to her
credit file. Miss W wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Oakbrook looked at Miss Ws complaint. They explained they had an obligation to report
missed payments to the credit reference agencies, and that it had been explained to Miss W
that any payments not made, even during an arrangement, would be reported as being
missed. Miss W wasnt satisfied with Oakbrooks response, so she referred her complaint to
this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Oakbrook had
acted unfairly towards Miss W in how theyd managed this situation, and so they didnt
uphold the complaint. Miss W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 October 2022 as follows:
Ive listened to recordings of telephone calls between Miss W and Oakbrook. And 
having listened to those calls, and especially in regard to the initial telephone call on 
13 September 2021, I dont feel that Oakbrook made sure that Miss W understood 
that receiving the financial assistance she was requesting would negatively impact 
her credit file.
I note that Oakbrooks agent on the 13 September 2021 call read out a script to Miss 
W that included information about how her credit file may be impacted. But it seems 
clear to me from listening to that call that the information was read out in rote fashion, 
and that the agent didnt make any reasonable effort to confirm that Miss W 
understood what shed been told. And I also feel that it was evident from Miss Ws 
reaction to being read that information that she didnt fully grasp what had just been 
quickly explained to her.
When Miss W called Oakbrook the following month, she began by explaining shed 
noticed her credit file had been impacted, which she wasnt expecting. And I feel this 
confirms that Miss W didnt understand that the 30-day breathing space would affect 
her credit file.
Additionally, I note that on all calls to Oakbrook, Miss W explained that she lived with 
her partner who could support her if necessary. But this option wasnt explored by 
Oakbrooks agents, and I feel that if Miss W had been made to understand that her 
credit file would be adversely affected, that she would in all likelihood have received 
support from her partner such that the assistance she received from Oakbrook, which 
did impact her credit file, wasnt necessary. And I feel that Miss Ws partner did call 
Oakbrook and settle the loan in full when the impact of the later £50 per month 
arrangement was fully understood by Miss W confirms that such support from the 
partner at an earlier stage was most likely available.
Its notable from Miss Ws credit file that Oakbrook are reporting arrears on Miss Ws
account relating to the missed payment due on 2 October 2021, which Miss W didnt 
make because shed agreed the 30-day breathing space hold on 13 September 
2021, and that Oakbrook are also reporting the continuation of those arrears into 
November 2021.
But I feel that what should have happened here is that Oakbrook should have made 
a greater effort to ensure that Miss W understood that she would incur adverse credit 
reporting if she accepted assistance from them in the manner she requested. And I 
feel that if they had, that Miss W would in all likelihood have sought and received 
help from her partner, such that no arrears would ever have accrued on her account 
or been reported as such.
Accordingly, Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Miss Ws favour and 
instructing Oakbrook to remove all adverse credit reporting relating to this account 
from her credit file.
Ive also considered whether Oakbrook should pay any compensation to Miss W for 
whats happened. But given that Oakbrook seemed to have had Miss Ws best 
interests in mind here  in that they did attempt to assist Miss W financially during a 
time where she appeared in need  I dont feel that any compensation is due in this 
instance. Even though I do feel that Oakbrook should have done more to ensure that 
Miss W fully understood the consequences of the assistance they were offering than 
they did.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Miss W and Oakbrook the opportunity to 
provide any comments or new information they wanted me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision. 
Neither Miss W nor Oakbrook submitted any response to my provisional decision letter. And 
so, I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Miss Ws favour on the basis outlined 
above. I therefore confirm that my final decision is that I do uphold this complaint in Miss Ws 
favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Oakbrook must remove the adverse reporting from Miss Ws credit file.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as 
Likely Loans, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman