DRN-3624766
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains about changes HSBC UK Bank Plc made to the fee 
structure on their business account. They want compensation.
What happened
C holds a business account with HSBC. In October 2021, HSBC wrote to C to explain that 
they would be making changes to their business current accounts effective 1 November 
2021, which included price changes to some of their services. 
C argued theyd been given insufficient notification of the price increase, and werent given 
adequate time to decide whether to continue with the increased charges, or to switch 
account providers. 
HSBC responded to say theyd sent a previous notification on 16 September 2021. They 
later corrected this, and said that notifications were sent on 2 August 2021, and 
26 September 2021. So they were satisfied sufficient notice had been provided. But C 
maintained that the October notification was the earliest correspondence they received, so 
they complained, and they asked for HSBC to provide copies of the previous notifications. 
HSBC responded. They maintained that three notifications had been sent, but they didnt 
provide C with copies of the earlier correspondence for a number of months. And when they 
were sent, C said they were in a format that didnt make clear how, or when they were sent. 
HSBC explained this was due to notifications being sent out by a third-party as a bulk 
mailing, but C remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Cs complaint. He accepted there were errors on HSBCs part, 
firstly in providing an incorrect date for the September notification, and then failing to provide 
further copies of the earlier notifications within a reasonable timescale. So he recommended 
that HSBC pay C £50 in compensation to recognise the shortfall in service. HSBC accepted 
the recommendations, but C didnt, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering any changes to an account, I first need to look at what the terms of the 
account state. HSBCs terms set out the notice they will provide when varying any terms of 
an account. And those notice levels vary, dependant on the change in question. The account 
terms state that for any change of charges to small business or large business corporate 
accounts, at least two months notice will be given. They also explain in the event of changes 
to any other terms for business customers, two months notice will also be given.
HSBC has said that C was provided with notice on 2 August 2021, 26 September 2021, and 
14 October 2021, that there would be a small change to the cost of the account effective 
from 1 November 2021. So based on these dates, it would seem C was provided sufficient 
notice in line with the account terms. 
C has argued that they never received the August or September notifications at the time, 
and therefore, insufficient notice was provided. So we asked HSBC to provide evidence that 
notifications were sent, and I can see that HSBCs system notes show that notifications were 
sent to C on 2 August 2021, 26 September 2021, as well as in October 2021. So for this 
reason, Im satisfied sufficient notice was provided to C in line with the account terms. 
C has argued that they didnt receive the August or September notifications, and that the 
system records dont show specific copies of the communications and therefore cant be 
relied upon. Theyve also argued that as HSBC previously quoted an incorrect date, which 
they say further supports their view that the documentation wasnt sent. But I dont see 
things quite the same way. 
When looking at a business evidence of communications, its common to use system 
records as evidence of documentation sent, rather than seeing physical copies of the letters 
themselves. And the fact that HSBC previously quoted an incorrect date in error, doesnt 
lead me to believe that the system records they have provided are in any way false. Rather I 
think this was a simple error in communicating the correct to date to C initially. So, while I 
appreciate C feels the records provided are insufficient, Im afraid I disagree, and Im 
satisfied that they demonstrate that notifications were issued on the dates in question. 
I do however accept that there were significant delays in providing C with evidence of the 
original notifications, for which I think compensation is due. But Im satisfied that in this case, 
the £50 compensation HSBC offered is sufficient in the circumstances. So, while I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment to C, for the reasons set out above, I wont be asking 
HSBC to do anything further than pay the £50 compensation recommended. 
Should C remain unhappy with the charges being applied, they retain the option to move 
their banking services to another provider. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Cs complaint in part, and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
Pay C £50 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman