DRN-3114704
The complaint
T Ltd complains it was mis-sold latent defects policies by CRL Management Limited, which
was an appointed representative of BCR Legal Group Limited.
What happened
Mr T is the director of T Ltd and brings this complaint on its behalf. T Ltd purchased four
latent defects policies in January 2019 with CRL. The policies cover four properties for which
T Ltd acted as the developer. Ill refer to the insurer for these policies as insurer B.
T Ltd purchased the policies following the termination of previous policies it had also
purchased through CRL to cover the same properties. The previous policies were terminated
because the insurer for those policies, which was based outside of the United Kingdom and
which Ill refer to as insurer Z, was declared bankrupt in 2018.
At the time the polices for insurer B were sold, CRL was an appointed representative of
BCR. BCR entered into an appointed representative agreement with CRL on 21 June 2013
and agreed a further addendum to that agreement on 19 May 2015. The addendum
authorised CRL to carry out a range of insurance distribution activities as the appointed
representative of BCR, including arranging insurance policies and dealing as agent. BCR
disputes it was responsible as CRLs principal for the sale of insurer B policies.
CRL entered into two agreements with another company (which I will refer to as A Ltd) two
months before insurer Zs collapse. It entered into a Terms of Business Agreement (TOBA)
and an Agreement for the Placing of Latent Defect Insurance (APLDI), which CRLs director
signed on 22 March 2018. A director of BCR later counter-signed the TOBA on
14 May 2018. The agreements permitted CRL to arrange latent defects policies covered by
insurer B. A Ltd had delegated authority from insurer B to permit insurance intermediaries to
sell its policies.
In August 2019 CRL entered into a corporate voluntary arrangement (CVA). It ceased taking
on new business and its agreements with A Ltd were terminated. BCR also terminated its
appointed representative relationship with CRL in September 2019.
CRLs director said in a strategic report recorded with Companies House in September 2019
that CRL experienced a large reduction in its turnover and considerable trading losses
caused by the collapse of insurer Z. They also said significant costs were incurred
attempting to support customers affected by the collapse, defending incorrect claims brought
against it and trying to re-establish itself in the market.
The report went on to say that CRL thought it could trade out of its position due to significant
shareholder investment. But by August 2019 it became clear trade wasnt going to improve
and no further significant investment was possible, so it entered into the CVA.
Mr T believes CRL mis-sold insurer Bs latent defects policies because of CRLs financial
position. He says CRL ought to have known it would need to enter into a CVA or declare
bankruptcy at the time of the sale in January 2019. He says the result of CRL entering into
the CVA was that no mortgage lender would lend on the remaining property it hadnt sold,
and T Ltd had to pay further fees to a third-party broker regarding the insurer B policies.
CRL says its not responsible for lenders refusing to lend on the remaining property. It says it
reported the third-party broker to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about the additional
fees CRL customers were charged after CRL entered into the CVA. CRL sold the policies,
but it was not the insurer, and neither was A Ltd. The policies remained the same and
continued to be covered by the same insurer.
BCR disputed that our service has jurisdiction to consider a complaint about it in relation to 
insurer B policies. It said that, under the terms of its appointed representative agreement 
with CRL, it only acted as principal for CRL if it had an underlying arrangement with the 
insurer. It disputed the TOBA it signed represented such an arrangement, so CRL
was not acting under its permission when it sold insurer Bs policies. Instead, CRL acted as
the agent for A Ltd and insurer B, so any complaint about insurer Bs policies should be
addressed against either of those two firms. It asked for a decision by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on T Ltds complaint which addressed both our services 
jurisdiction over it and also the merits of the complaint. I found the complaint was in 
jurisdiction. In summary, I found:
S39(3) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)c  states a principal, such as 
BCR, is responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility. I agreed a principal can place limits in its appointed 
representative agreement on what qualifies as business it has authorised its 
appointed representative to carry out. 
Clause 1 of the addendum BCR agreed with CRL set out a broad authorisation for 
CRL to carry out a variety of regulated activities for which BCR would be responsible 
as principal. These activities included arranging and dealing as agent. 
Clause 1 was broader and different in scope to clause 2.1 of the original appointed 
representative agreement, which previously authorised CRL to carry out 
administrative services in connection with policies sold under arrangements BCR 
had with insurers. The addendum made clear that its terms would supersede terms in 
the appointed representative agreement which were in conflict. I found clause 1 in 
the addendum superseded clause 2.1 in the appointed representative agreement. 
After the addendum came into effect there was no requirement for BCR to have 
underlying arrangements with insurers for it to be responsible as CRLs principal. The 
judgement of the court in the Anderson v Sense Network [2019] EWCA Civ 1395 
which BCR raised to support its position was not relevant.
Nevertheless, for completeness, I also considered the TOBA and APLDI. The 
evidence of communication between BCR, A Ltd and CRL did not support that BCR 
was only agreeing to act as principal to CRL in relation to holding client monies. 
Instead, it showed it was jointly understood that BCRs status as principal to CRL 
was necessary to give effect to the TOBA. So, on balance it was more likely that by 
signing the TOBA, BCR were acknowledging it was the principal to CRL and 
responsible for CRL carrying out regulated activities.BCR tried to vary the TOBA by saying it was not responsible for CRL providing 
advice to customers, but I didnt see evidence to suggest that this attempted variation 
was successful and this attempted variation did not show that BCR was not 
accepting responsibility for the other regulated activities CRL were required to 
perform in relation to insurer Bs policies. 
The APLDI was not signed by BCR, but it didnt need to be for BCR to be responsible 
as CRLs principal in relation to the carrying out of regulated activities it authorised 
CRL to carry out. The APLDI was clearly formed on the basis that CRL were acting 
as the appointed representative of BCR. The fact that CRL were required to act 
according to the APLDI and its schedules did not override BCRs responsibility as 
principal to CRL under s39 FSMA irrespective of whether an agency relationship 
existed at common law between CRL and A Ltd or insurer B.
I didnt uphold T Ltds complaint. In summary, I found:
BCR had responsibilities to monitor CRLs suitability and to carry out financial 
checks. CRLs financial situation was impacted by the collapse of insurer Z, and this 
worsened over time to the extent that CRL decided to enter the CVA.
I wasnt persuaded the evidence before me was sufficient to conclude that BCR 
ought to have terminated its relationship as CRLs principal before T Ltd purchased 
its policies. Neither was there evidence to show that the insurer B policies T Ltd 
bought were unsuitable or mis-sold  CRL had carried out the contract it agreed with 
T Ltd.
I wasnt persuaded that CRL were obligated not to enter a CVA because of how 
mortgage lenders might review live policies or those waiting for certificates to be 
issued to purchasers of properties.
I wasnt holding BCR responsible for a third-party brokers decision to charge 
additional costs in relation to the existing policies T Ltd had bought after CRL entered 
the CVA. Neither CRL nor A Ltd was the insurer, so the policies appeared to have 
remained the same and the basis of why costs were charged was not clear.
Both BCR and T Ltd responded to my provisional decision and I have considered both 
parties submissions in full. BCR still disputes our services jurisdiction over this complaint. In 
summary, it says:
It doesnt understand why I considered the addendum to the appointed 
representative agreement it had with CRL. Clause 1 of the addendum did not 
supersede clause 2.1 of the appointed representative agreement. It merely extended 
BCRs authorisation. So, BCR was only ever responsible as principal for CRL where 
BCR had an underlying arrangement with insurers and the judgement of the court in 
Adamson supported BCRs position.
CRL didnt sign the TOBA and BCR only initialed it to confirm it would hold premiums 
in its client account. The TOBA was also void for illegality because CRL didnt sign it 
as the trading partner of A Ltd. Instead the APLDI superseded the TOBA, and it set 
out the true agreement between CRL, A Ltd and insurer B. BCR were not party to the 
agreement and bore no responsibility for CRLs actions under it, including if those 
actions were regulated activities.BCR were not responsible for CRL carrying out unregulated activities such as 
surveys, inspections, and risk management. And even if those activities could be 
deemed as ancillary to regulated activities, BCR could not be responsible for them 
under our compulsory jurisdiction as it didnt accept responsibility as principal for 
CRL to carry them out in its appointed representative agreement.
BCR could not be responsible for the debts CRL held as an insolvent firm, and this 
would run contrary to insolvency law. BCR had wanted to terminate its relationship 
with CRL earlier but the FCA had not allowed this due to the collapse of insurer Z. It 
had also sought assurances from CRL about its financial stability, which CRL 
provided.
Mr T responded and said the financial information available around the time of CRL agreeing 
to sell insurer B policies was so poor that BCR should have terminated its relationship with 
CRL and not allowed CRL to sell insurer B policies.
After considering all the points made by T Ltd and BCR, I am now ready to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our services jurisdiction over T Ltds complaint
Before I go on to reconsider the merits of T Ltds complaint, its important I address the
further points BCR made in response to my last provisional decision. After carefully
considering what BCR has said, I still find T Ltds complaint is one I can consider for the
same reasons I gave in my provisional decision. 
The findings I made in my provisional decision form part of my findings for this decision. As a 
result, the provisional decision has been attached to the email containing this decision.
Ill now address the further points BCR made in regard to our services jurisdiction over this
complaint.
BCR is unsure why I have considered the addendum to its appointed representative 
agreement with CRL. I have taken it into account because its an important document 
which sets out the authority BCR gave CRL to act as its appointed representative. 
So, its very relevant to my considerations. I can consider information and evidence I 
find is relevant and this isnt limited to only the information BCR finds relevant.
I am not persuaded the addendum to the appointed representative agreement should 
be read as if the requirement for BCR to have an underlying arrangement with an 
insurer still remained under clause 2.1 of the original appointed representative 
agreement.
I dont find clause 1 of the addendum can reasonably be read as merely extending 
BCRs authorisation subject to clause 2.1 of the original appointed representative 
agreement. Clause 1 is broadly worded, and expressly sets out the activities for 
which BCR accepts responsibility as CRLs principal. Those activities go some way 
beyond the provision in clause 2.1 of the appointed representative agreement, which 
only refers to administrative services. The addendum says that where there is a conflict between it and a term in the 
appointed representative agreement, the term in the addendum takes precedence. 
Clause 1 of the addendum does on my reading conflict with clause 2.1. So, I find 
Clause 1 of the addendum superseded clause 2.1 of the original appointed 
representative agreement and set out the contractual basis of the authority BCR 
gave to CRL, which did not require an underlying arrangement between BCR and an 
insurer whose policies CRL sold. I would have expected this requirement to have 
been re-stated in the addendum if it was relevant.
Acting as agent to sell or underwrite a contract of insurance (which is a relevant 
investment) is a regulated activity, as per Article 21(1) of the RAO:
Buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting securities[ F2, structured 
deposits] or [ F3relevant investments] [ F4(other than investments of the kind 
specified by article 87, or article 89 so far as relevant to that article)] as agent is a 
specified kind of activity.
Therefore, in order to sell insurer Bs policies, CRL had to be an FCA registered 
appointed representative of a firm which had permission to carry out the activity of 
arranging insurance or dealing as agent in relation to selling or underwriting those 
policies.
CRL was BCRs appointed representative. I have seen nothing to suggest that CRL 
was an appointed representative of A Ltd or insurer B. Indeed, if CRL had been an 
appointed representative of A Ltd or insurer B, then BCR would not have needed to 
hold premiums in its client account. That responsibility would have fallen to either A 
Ltd or insurer B who had the regulatory permissions to do this.  
Given the above, its unclear why BCR believed it could agree only to holding client 
money without also accepting responsibility for CRL arranging the insurance policies 
or otherwise acting as agent to sell or underwrite insurer B policies.
 
BCR says it was only responsible as principal for holding client money, but I dont 
find the contemporaneous records of the communication I have seen bear this out. 
Instead, I find BCR held itself out as CRLs principal without the caveat that it would 
not accept responsibility for other regulated activities carried out in relation to insurer 
B policies. Again, I note that BCR sought to avoid responsibility for advice CRL might 
provide but, in light of the appointed representative agreement and addendum, I do 
not find that this means that BCR only accepted responsibility for holding client 
money.
I issued a previous decision in relation to whether CRL agreeing to provide services, 
such as arranging surveys and inspections for the purposes of agreeing the 
insurance contract, was a regulated activity or not under the RAO and whether it 
otherwise fell under compulsory jurisdiction.  This was in relation to CRL acting in 
relation to policies sold by insurer Z. BCR is aware of my and our services recent 
position on this.
I found BCR was responsible as CRLs principal for CRL contracting to provide 
inspections, risk management and surveys. And I also found BCR were responsible 
for the membership fee CRL charged its customers. I referred to these services as 
CRL Services. In summary, I found the services:
(a) were either part and parcel of the carrying on by CRL of the regulated activities of: (i) dealing in investments as agent (Article 21 of the Regulated Activities Order (the
RAO)); or (ii) arranging deals in investments (Article 25 of the RAO); or
(b) constituted the carrying on of ancillary activities in relation to these regulated
activities;
and
(c) that these activities are ones for which BCR had accepted responsibility under the
appointed representative agreement, such that it is responsible for CRLs
acts/omissions in relation to them.
Under the addendum to BCRs appointed representative agreement I have already 
found it was responsible for CRL carrying out the regulated activities of arranging and 
dealing as agent in relation to insurer B policies. And I have found BCR did not need 
to have an underlying arrangement with A Ltd or insurer B to have accepted 
responsibility. I do not find the addendum only relevant to the sales of insurer Zs 
policies
Instead, I find BCR is responsible as CRLs principal in relation to CRL contracting to 
provide inspections, risk assessments and surveys in relation to insurer B policies, 
and for the payment of CRLs membership fee. CRLs services were part and parcel 
of (or ancillary to) the regulated activities which CRL undertook in connection with the 
sale of the contract of insurance to T Ltd. They did not need to be set out separately 
in the A/R agreement or its addendum as they formed part of the regulated activities 
of arranging or dealing as agent which were set out in the addendum. 
Even if the services werent part and parcel of those activities, which I find they were, 
they were at least ancillary to them, so they fall under our services compulsory 
jurisdiction under DISP 2.3.1R. I am not persuaded by BCRs argument that a 
principal cant be responsible for ancillary activities not stated in its appointed 
representative agreement when those activities were intrinsically linked to the 
carrying out of regulated activities it authorised.
BCR signed the TOBA later than CRL. But I dont find this shows BCR didnt intend 
to act as CRLs principal in relation to arranging the insurance policies or CRL 
dealing as agent in relation to them. The evidence I have seen from the time of BCR 
signing the TOBA does not show BCR were only accepting responsibility for holding 
client money as CRLs principal
I dont find the TOBA is void for illegality. Instead, I find the appointed representative 
relationship between BCR and CRL was fundamental to the TOBA. CRL had to be 
authorised for the TOBA to work, and CRLs authorisation came via the appointed 
representative agreement. In other words, the TOBA is legal, because CRL were 
authorised, via its agreement with BCR. In view of this, I dont find what BCR has 
said about CRL needing to have signed as trading partner on the TOBA is 
persuasive. 
I have considered what BCR said about the APLDI. But for the reasons I have given, 
I dont find BCR needed to have signed the APLDI to be responsible for CRL carrying 
out regulated activities authorised under the addendum in relation to insurer B 
policies. And even if BCR did not have access to A Ltds portal, this does not mean 
BCR was obviated of its responsibility as CRLs principal. It was for BCR to ensure it 
could adequately carry out its responsibilities as CRLs principal in relation to the regulated activities CRL carried out. If BCR couldnt do so, then it should not have 
allowed CRL the use of its client account, and it should have made it clear that CRL 
must become an appointed representative of another entity.
But again, its fundamental to point out that my finding is that there was no 
requirement for BCR to have an underlying arrangement with A Ltd or insurer B, 
irrespective of the TOBA or APLDI.
BCR says it should not be responsible for the debts owed by an insolvent firm  in 
this case CRL. I do not find it necessary to make a finding on this point, as I have not 
made merits findings that BCR needs to pay debts subject to CRLs insolvency. 
Instead, T Ltds alleged loss is that BCR should not have allowed CRL to sell insurer 
Bs policies, and if it hadnt T Ltd wouldnt have had to pay additional fees to a third-
party broker.
So, given the above, I consider this complaint falls under our services compulsory 
jurisdiction.
My findings on the merits of T Ltds complaint
Ive listened carefully to what T Ltd said following my provisional decision. But it hasnt
changed my mind, and I have decided not to uphold his complaint for the same reasons I
gave in my last provisional decision. 
The findings I made in my provisional decision form part of my findings for this decision. As a 
result, the provisional decision has been attached to the email containing this decision. I will 
now turn my attention to the points T Ltd made after my provisional decision.
I understand Mr T feels strongly CRL should not have been allowed to enter into agreements 
with A Ltd to sell insurer B policies. And I understand CRL was impacted financially at that 
time by insurer Zs collapse. But I dont find the evidence is such that CRL did not expect to 
be able to recover its position at the time the policies were sold, which it would need to do by 
undertaking further business. BCR has also said the FCA required BCR to continue as 
principal for CRL during this time.
Primarily, however, I dont find the loss T Ltd is claiming is appropriate to put at BCRs door. 
As I have said, I do not understand why T Ltd was charged additional fees by the third-party 
broker. The insurer had not changed and CRL appear to have carried out what they agreed 
to when the policies were sold  there doesnt appear to be have been anything wrong with 
the sale or suitability of the policies. A Ltd also remained as the scheme administrator for the 
policies.
Its not evident T Ltd would not have had to purchase a more expensive policy elsewhere if it 
had not bought an insurer B policy through CRL. As far as I understand it, CRL were 
generally a cheaper option in the market. T Ltd needed cover for its properties which no 
longer had cover due to insurer Zs collapse. And while I appreciate what Mr T has said, I 
dont find BCR is responsible for fees imposed by a third party broker in relation to policies 
which remained the same and which were insured by the same insurer, following CRL 
entering into a CVA.
T Ltd has also said they are unsure how our service let A Ltd or the third-party broker charge 
additional fees after CRL entered the CVA. I would like to clarify that our service is not the 
regulator. It is the FCA who monitors firms conduct and sets many of the rules firms must 
follow. Our service is separate to the FCA and was set up under FSMA to resolve individual 
complaints against firms. T Ltd may want to address its concerns about the fees it was charged to the FCA. Or it may also want to complain separately to A Ltd and/or the broker 
who charged the fees. But I am not providing any advice in this regard, as that is not my role.
For the reasons I have given I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold T Ltds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman