DRN-2696415
The complaint
Miss S complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) has both undervalued her vehicle 
and proportionately settled her claim after her vehicle was written off in an accident. 
What happened
Miss S took out a motor insurance policy with esure through a price comparison website. In 
March 2020 she was involved in an accident. She submitted a claim to esure who inspected 
her vehicle and deemed it a total write off.  
esure placed a value of £4,731 on the vehicle. It then deducted 19.68% from this valuation 
because it deemed Miss S to have misrepresented her annual mileage when the policy was 
taken out. esure says it used the vehicle trade guides to value the vehicle and that under the 
rules its allowed to make a pro-rata payment based on what it wouldve charged Miss S if 
shed declared her correct annual mileage.
Miss S doesnt agree that this is the correct value for her vehicle. She says this vehicle is of 
sentimental value to herself and her family. She spent many years saving for this vehicle, 
and she only had it for 11 months. She says the vehicle is worth £7,000. 
Miss S also denies that she misrepresented on her insurance. She says the mileage she 
provided was an estimated figure, and that having to suffer a further reduction in the total 
loss settlement is unfair.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this case on 3 March 2021. That provisional
decision is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not planning on 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Vehicle valuation
Miss S is unhappy with the valuation that esure has placed on her vehicle. Our approach is 
to consider whether esure has settled Miss Ss claim in line with the terms and conditions of 
her policy, fairly and reasonably. So, I have considered the terms of the policy and the offer 
made in order to determine whether esure has acted fairly. I can see that in the event the 
vehicle cant be repaired, esure wont pay more than the market value of the vehicle at the 
time of the loss.
Market Value is defined as the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car 
for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the 
value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and 
mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade 
guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you 
purchased the car..
Our usual approach to complaints about vehicle valuations is to look at motor trade guides 
for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and 
auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This 
takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage. 
If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its reasonable 
to ignore it. This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. We wouldnt normally place as much weight on 
adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair. Differences in mileage or year of registration 
can significantly affect value, and sometimes the vehicle actually ends up selling for a lower 
price than advertised. Adverts may be helpful if the complaint involves a classic or rare 
model. Or if they strongly indicate that the guides could be wrong. 
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Miss Ss vehicle at the time of the 
incident and they produced the following valuations: CAP £4,594; Glasss £5,240 and 
Cazana £4,921. 
esure has used the same approach that we rely upon in working out a fair reflection of
the market value of a vehicle. And looking at the three guide prices together our approach 
Im satisfied the valuation offered of £4,731 is fair. I can see esure wrote to Miss S giving her 
the valuations from the three trade guides Ive used above. And even though our valuations 
are very slightly different, I can see the valuation it gave Miss S is within the range of the 
valuations provided. So, looking at all of this, I think esure acted fairly and reasonably and in 
line with Miss Ss policy terms in giving the valuation it did.
Misrepresentation
esure claims that Miss S misrepresented her annual mileage when she took out the policy, 
so its only paid her a proportion of the total loss settlement. Miss S says she didnt 
misrepresent, and applying a further deduction is unfair.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ive looked at the question that was asked during the online sales journey. And it says, what 
is the total annual personal mileage for this car. Alongside this question, in a pop out 
information box it says, this is the total number of miles you expect this car to be driven over 
the next year by all drivers named on the policy. This includes travelling for social and 
domestic use as well as commuting to and from a single place of work. Its important this is accurate as possible, underestimating the mileage could impact your cover or lead to 
increased charges. 
esure thinks Miss S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she provided a figure for her annual mileage. The schedule of insurance shows that Miss S 
told esure she estimated she would be travelling 7001-8000 miles in that year. However, at 
the time the accident, the difference between the two last recorded mileages, at MOT and 
the time the accident occurred, shows Miss S had travelled 16,000 miles in 11 months. 
Looking at the question that was asked, I dont think its a misleading or unclear question. I 
appreciate that Miss S says she was asked to estimate her annual mileage, and our 
investigator has argued that asking for an estimated mileage didnt constitute a clear 
question under the rules. But I think there may have been some confusion about how the 
information is presented on the policy schedule as opposed to the question that was actually 
asked on the online application screen. Looking at this I can see the word estimate is used 
on the policy schedule only. But the important wording is on the online screen, and it is very 
clearly looking for a clear and definite answer when it asks, what is the total annual personal 
mileage for this car.
So, in this case, I think a clear question was put to Miss S about her annual mileage. And 
from what Ive seen, I think Miss S gave the wrong answer to the question. We asked Miss S 
why she declared approximately 8,000 miles and yet travelled 16,000 miles in 11 months. 
Miss S advised that when she took out the policy, the answer she provided looked about 
right. But that in the following year a long journey shed previously been making had 
increased in frequency, and this probably accounted for the increase in mileage. We asked 
her if this was unexpected. But Miss S told us it was a journey shed have made previously. 
So, I have to conclude that Miss S shouldve thought about this when she was submitting her 
annual mileage figures. 
esure can show that Miss S provided mileage figures that were a lot lower than she actually 
travelled. The mileage figures she provided are just half of what she actually travelled. So, I 
dont think Miss S took reasonable care when answering this question. 
Whether esure can take action as a result of that depends on whether it can show that Miss 
S made a qualifying misrepresentation. esure has provided supporting evidence that Miss S 
had only paid 81.32% of the premium she wouldve been charged, but for the 
misrepresentations. So, Im satisfied Miss S made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
esure has treated the qualifying misrepresentation as careless, and has opted to settle the 
claim proportionally. Where the misrepresentation is deemed careless CIDRA says esure 
can settle a claim proportionately. This is based on the proportion of premium Miss S paid 
against what she would have been charged, but for the misrepresentation. And as this 
remedy is the most favourable remedy available for Miss S in this scenario, I think this is fair.
Miss S says this is unfair, and the proportionate settlement is a further reduction on what she 
believes is an already lessened valuation. But Miss S was using her vehicle almost twice as 
much as shes told esure at the beginning. And its understandable that insurers will deem 
people who use their vehicles more regularly to be a greater risk, and that theyll charge 
more for cover. esure has shown this is a significant factor to them and that theyd have 
charged Miss S a lot more for her policy if it had known her true annual mileage.
I appreciate this may seem harsh, and may feel unfair, especially where someone is found
not to have deliberately misled their insurer  but it does make clear the importance of taking
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
 esure was able to demonstrate that Miss S had paid 81.32% of the premium she wouldve
been charged, but for the misrepresentations  so that was the proportion of her claim that
was paid. And its what CIDRA allows for. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing esure to rely on it to proportionally 
settle Miss Ss claim produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
esure has confirmed it received my provisional decision and has nothing further to add.
Miss S hasnt responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss S hasnt responded, and esure has nothing further to add, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision as set out above. Im satisfied esure has provided a fair 
valuation for this vehicle using a fair and reasonable approach. And that under CIDRA its 
correctly offered Miss S a proportionate settlement of the vehicle valuation in order to settle 
this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman