DRN-3367282
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly declined
her buildings insurance claim.
All references to RSA also include its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 February 2022. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA have referenced a policy exclusion related to illegal activities. The exclusion
sets out several requirements that need to be complied with by Mrs B.
One of these requirements is that Mrs B, or someone acting on her behalf, complete
internal and external inspections of the building at least every three months.
RSA have applied this in declining Mrs Bs claim as it said as internal inspections
hadnt taken place.
I understand COVID restrictions and concerns regarding risks to family members
health wouldve made inspections difficult. But I do think Mrs B could have
reasonably done more to mitigate her circumstances regarding internal inspections,
such as contacting RSA to inform them she was unable to do so  or arranging video
inspections. While its likely the tenant wouldnt have complied, I cant see this option
was explored.
However, if Mrs B had completed internal inspections, its likely it would only have
identified the Cannabis Farm had been set up earlier. And Im not persuaded it would
have prevented it happening.
From viewing correspondence between RSA and Mrs Bs broker, I havent seen any
evidence to suggest the other terms hadnt been complied with.
So while technically it is a breach in conditions, I think In the circumstances, it is fair
and reasonable that RSA deal with the claim
Putting things right
To put things right, Im intending to direct RSA to deal with the claim under the remaining
terms of the policy.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA didnt agree with my provisional findings. It clarified the purpose of the clause and its 
relevance in law. It also pointed to other final decisions issued by our service that it feels 
involves similar facts. 
Mrs B has added no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what RSA said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. 
RSA has pointed to previous decisions made by other ombudsmen in cases they feel involve 
similar facts. And has referenced the Insurance Act of 2015. But, as RSA will also be aware, 
we arent bound by our previous decisions and we consider each case on its own individual 
facts, taking into account what we think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I recognise the policy term strictly allows RSA to decline the claim. But I must also consider 
whether applying that term would produce a fair and reasonable outcome  and Ive 
explained in my provisional decision why I dont think it treats Mrs B fairly and reasonably to 
rely on the clause in these circumstances.
As Ive set out above if Mrs B had completed internal inspections, I think its likely it would 
only have identified the Cannabis Farm had been set up earlier. And Im not persuaded that 
it would have prevented it happening. Similarly bearing in mind the timescales involved, Im 
satisfied that her not doing so didnt increase the risk of it happing, as Ive mentioned above, 
I think it is more likely than not it would have already been in place at the time an inspection 
was due.
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct RSA to deal with the claim under the remaining terms of the 
policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman