DRN-3642667
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that Covea Insurance Plc has charged her three excesses plus 10% 
of the vet costs when she made a claim under her pet insurance policy. She also complained 
that it took a premium instalment after she cancelled her policy and unreasonably delayed 
refunding her.
What happened
Mrs E had a policy for her dog which was underwritten by Covea. He needed some dental
work and a lump removed. However, whilst under the anaesthetic the vet removed two
lumps in addition to the dental work. One lump was a cyst and the other was a lipoma.
Covea said that because the two lumps were different that meant Mrs E had to pay three
excesses, one for each lump and one for the dental work. In addition, because her dog was
over the age of 4 years of age, she also had to pay an additional excess of 10% of the vet
costs.
Mrs E said when she phoned up Covea before the operation, she was told she would only
need to pay two excesses, and nothing was mentioned about the 10% additional excess.
Covea said it was wrong of its adviser not to mention the additional 10% excess and it
apologised for this. But nonetheless given the lumps concerned two different conditions, it
said the three excesses plus the 10% extra excess were applicable given the dental work.
Mrs Es claim was £1,809.76. Her fixed excess was £105.00 per condition claimed and 10%
of the total cost of the vet fees was £180.96. This meant when Covea paid her claim, it left
Mrs E having to pay her vet £495.96.
Mrs E was of the view this was very poor service.
In addition, Mrs E said in her complaint for to us that when the policy was due to renew in
December 2021, the premium increased by over 50%. So, she phoned Covea to cancel it.
She said this wasnt actioned and instead Covea took her first premium instalment from her
bank account. Covea said it would refund her the amount it took in January 2022. However,
it didnt refund the full amount and instead left her £3.27 short. Although Covea told her it
would then refund this, it didnt do so until July 2022.
So, Mrs E brought her complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that Covea had
failed to meet Mrs Es expectations of her claim given the call she had with its adviser so he
thought Covea should pay Mrs E £150 compensation. Mrs E agreed but asked what about
the refund of premium issue. Covea didnt agree it should pay Mrs E any compensation
because she didnt ask what specific costs she would incur. So, it asked for an
ombudsmans decision.
The investigator asked Covea would it agree for me to consider the premium refund issue as
well since it hadnt dealt with that in its final response letter, Covea withheld that agreement.
So, Mrs Es complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 November 2022 and I said the following: 
First as regards dealing with the premium instalment being taken by Direct Debit 
after Mrs E had properly cancelled her policy and then the delay in refunding her the 
full amount, this was raised by Mrs E in her complaint form, which Covea has seen, 
since we sent it the complaint form on 26 May 2022, which was more than eight 
weeks ago. Therefore, that issue now falls within our jurisdiction and so it is only fair 
and reasonable that I deal with it here, despite the fact that Covea has not dealt with 
it, since receiving the complaint form.
Now turning to the substance of the Mrs Es complaint, namely that she received bad 
service about her claim following her initial conversation with Coveas adviser. Covea 
acknowledged it didnt tell her about the 10% additional excess when she made 
enquiries about the fact that her dog was having two procedures done under the 
same anaesthetic and was seeking to clarify what excesses she might need to pay, 
given the discussion clarified it would be two excesses given the dental and the one lump intended to be removed. It clearly apologised in its final response letter for this. 
Therefore, there is now no merit in Covea now saying Mrs E didnt ask about specific 
costs when she phoned up the adviser to explain the vet would be doing the dental 
and the lump removal under the same anaesthetic. Because that is exactly what she 
did do. Mrs E also raised the point that no one told her when assessing her claim
that a third excess would now be imposed given both lumps removed from her dog 
were different. Given Mrs Es call with the adviser it would have been better service, 
in my opinion, if this had also been explained to her during the claim assessment.
I do consider the policy conditions were clear about charging an excess per condition
claimed and that the 10% of the vets by way of an additional excess would occur 
once her dog turned four years of age were clear. So, I dont consider Covea did 
anything wrong in imposing them on Mrs Es claim. Simply it should have made that 
clear when Mrs E went to the trouble of phoning up to get her excess payments 
clarified.
So, I agree with the investigator that Mrs E received poor service here and a
mismanagement of her expectations which caused distress and upset. I also agree 
the amount of £150 compensation is reasonable and in line with what I have awarded 
previously in similar circumstances.
Given Mrs E properly and clearly cancelled her policy in December 2021, Covea had 
no right to take a premium instalment by direct debit from her bank account in 
January 2022. That necessitated Mrs E having to call up again and wait for a call 
back from a manager. When the refund came through, she noticed it was £3.27 
short. So, she had to make further phone calls and the remaining amount was sadly 
not refunded to her until July 2022. This caused Mrs E further unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience for which I consider Covea should pay Mrs E a further £100 
compensation.
The compensation is for the distress and inconvenience caused first by taking the 
premium instalment when it shouldnt have been taken and secondly the retention of 
£3.27 for so long. Its irrelevant that the amount retained so long in error was only 
£.3.27.
Mrs E accepted my provisional decision. Covea said whilst it didnt agree with my provisional 
decision because there was no record of Mrs E phoning in to cancel her policy in December, 
it would abide by my final decision when received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view that Im upholding this complaint along the same 
lines as detailed above in my provisional decision. 
Ive not seen any evidence from Covea that Mrs E didnt phone up to cancel her policy in 
December. Clearly Mrs E said it wasnt actioned as she said she had to phone up again. 
Notwithstanding that following Mrs E cancelling her policy, Covea did not refund the full 
premium instalment taken for several months, putting Mrs E to further trouble and upset. So, 
I consider compensation is rightly payable for this element of Mrs Es complaint too. My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Covea Insurance Plc to do the following:
Pay Mrs E the sum of £150 compensation for the lack of service for which Covea has 
acknowledged and apologized.
Pay Mrs E a further sum of £100 compensation for wrongly taking a premium 
instalment when she had cancelled her policy and then failing to refund the remaining 
£3.27 for several months.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman