DRN-2835964
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Domestic & General Insurance Plc when 
renewing several insurance policies he has with it.
What happened
In late 2020, Mr T contacted D&G to renew several policies he had with them. He later 
complained about the service hed received during the renewal process. 
He said hed asked for an adviser to call him back on a particular day, and that didnt 
happen. Hed also asked for some direct debits to not be cancelled, as he receives interest 
on his bank account for having a certain number of direct debits leaving it each month. But 
he later realised some of them had been cancelled in error. 
He also complained that hed asked for any correspondence to be sent to his address, rather 
than the insured addresses, as he didnt live there. But this wasnt updated and it took 
several calls from Mr T before the issue was resolved. 
Mr T also complained that a 25% discount hed been receiving on his policies had now been 
removed. And no one from D&G had contacted him to have a discussion about it. And he 
couldnt reply to the email which explained the change.
D&G accepted its service had fallen below what it expected in some circumstances. It said it 
would refund Mr T any interest hed lost on his bank account as a result of the direct debits 
being cancelled in error. It also offered £10 compensation for not updating Mr Ts address 
when he initially asked. It made a total offer of £20 compensation to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience he suffered.
Having reviewed Mr Ts discounts, D&G didnt accept it had done anything wrong in 
removing them, so it didnt make any offers to put this right. 
Mr T didnt accept the offer made. So he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator accepted D&Gs service had caused Mr T some unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. She thought it should increase the compensation to £50. 
D&G accepted this, but Mr T didnt. He thought £250 was a reasonable offer considering the 
issues he faced. He said the investigator hadnt commented on all of the issues hed faced 
with D&G.
As Mr T didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D&G accepts its service fell below what it should have done in relation to cancelling the 
direct debits, not updating Mr Ts address and not contacting him as agreed. So the only 
thing for me to consider is D&Gs position on removing the discount on his policies, and 
whether its offer of £20 is sufficient to recognise the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it caused him. 
Removal of 25% discount
Mr T has benefited from a 25% discount across his policies since 2014. D&G say this was 
done so through a friends and family benefit. It says when it offers this, customers will have 
to call a separate department annually to continue to have the benefit added, until the 
relevant staff member leaves.
D&G found this hadnt happened and that complaint managers had manually applied 
discounts each year due to complaints that had been raised by Mr T. In 2020, D&G decided 
to remove this benefit. 
There isnt anything in the terms of Mr Ts agreements that says he is entitled to receive a 
discount, and this service cant interfere with D&Gs business decision to no longer offer this 
benefit. 
I understand Mr T wanted a call to discuss the matter, but I dont think D&G has acted 
unfairly in the way it communicated to Mr T. Whilst the email he received didnt provide a 
contact number, Mr T did raise a complaint about the issue which D&G responded to. 
Having considered the matter Im satisfied it doesnt need to do any more in relation to this.
Compensation for service failings
D&G cancelled some direct debits when it shouldnt have done. Its accepted this and 
recognised it may have caused Mr T a financial loss by him losing out on interest on his 
bank account. So I think its offer to refund Mr T any interest hes lost is fair and reasonable 
and Im satisfied this puts Mr T back into the position he would have been in, had his 
instructions been followed. 
Its reasonable that D&G asks Mr T to quantify this amount by providing his bank statements. 
I havent seen anything to suggest he has. So unless hes able to do so, D&G wont have to 
pay any amount. 
Mr T would instead like an offer of £250  Im not sure if this is to cover his interest losses, 
as well as the inconvenience caused. But this service would consider the two as separate. 
So I think its reasonable that D&G are asking for information to help it quantify the loss so it 
can provide a fair offer on the interest.
Like our investigator I think £20 is too low for the inconvenience Mr T had faced when 
renewing his policies. As D&G has accepted its failings, Im not going to comment or review 
each one individually, although Id like to reassure Mr T I have considered them all. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that £50 is a fair amount. Compensation awards arent based 
on the amount of errors made, so the award doesnt necessarily go up because D&G accept 
several errors happened. Awards are made to recognise the emotional impact caused by the 
errors. Whilst Mr T had to make several calls to resolve the issues, Im satisfied that the 
distress and inconvenience caused was relatively minimal, so Im not going to make D&G 
pay a further award.
Mr T does have more complaints with our service relating to other issues with his policy 
renewals, but these will be considered separately.
 My final decision
My final decision is that Domestic and General Insurance Plc is required to pay £50 for 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Domestic and General Insurance Plc should also refund Mr T any interest lost on his bank 
account due to direct debits incorrectly being cancelled, if he can provide evidence from his 
bank of his losses. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman