DRN-3253358
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that UK General Insurance Limited (UKG) have handled their legal 
expenses insurance claim unfairly.   
What happened
The details and background of this complaint are complex and well known to both parties, so 
I will not repeat everything in detail here. In summary, Mr and Mrs M have been involved in a 
long running dispute with their neighbours, which has resulted in numerous claims being 
made with different insurers, as well as several complaints being made to this service.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about UKG concerns its handling of their legal expenses claim for 
a trespass claim due to an extension that was built on part of their land and a nuisance claim 
related to antisocial behaviour theyve experienced from the neighbouring property over 
several years. 
Mr and Mrs M raised the claim with UKG after their neighbours began to build an extension 
that encroached on their boundary. They approached a barrister for an opinion on prospects, 
who confirmed in August 2020 they had reasonable prospects in excess of 51% of 
successfully obtaining an injunction, albeit the barrister qualified his opinion by saying it did 
not represent full advice. 
UKG said it wanted to obtain an independent barristers opinion on his claim, as it 
considered that the opinion provided by Mr and Mrs Ms barrister was vague, hadnt been 
signed, and did not refer to the main facts or evidence of the case and only gave an opinion 
on the likelihood of obtaining and interim injunction. Therefore, UKG didnt consider the 
assessment to be a sufficient legal assessment of the claim or its prospects of success, so it 
offered to fund a full opinion from another barrister, rather than approaching their panel 
solicitor first. 
UKG said it required further clarification from counsel with regards to the legal assessment 
provided, as it said it didnt consider the opinion to offer a deep enough explanation with 
regards to the coverage of the claims and the start of the insured events. However, Mr and 
Mrs M didnt think this was fair and did not consent to their file being shared with another 
barrister. 
UKG eventually agreed to Mr and Mrs M to choosing the barrister from a list it provided, and 
said it would allow them to have sight of its instructions. However, Mr and Mrs M didnt agree 
to this either. UKG eventually agreed to fund a full legal opinion from the barrister Mr and 
Mrs M had used. Counsel issued an opinion on 15 October 2020 regarding the prospects of 
success of each claim. However, UKG sought further clarification with regards to whether 
the events formed new claims or would be considered a continuation of Mr and Mrs Ms 
previous claims. 
Counsel issued a further legal opinion on 30 November 2020, but UKG said it had further 
queries with regards to the start date of each insured event to determine which insurer would 
be responsible for covering the claims. Counsel issued an addendum to his advice on 1 
February 2021, at which point UKG eventually agreed to cover both the nuisance and 
trespass claims. However, UKG acknowledged there had been some delay with its review of 
the opinion, its responses to Mr and Mrs M, and its decision on claim coverage, so it agreed 
to backdate cover to 30 November 2020 when counsel issued the previous legal opinion. But 
UKG said it would not cover any costs incurred before that date, or before claim coverage 
was agreed. 
Following the claim being referred to solicitors, UKG subsequently withdrew cover for Mr and 
Mrs Ms nuisance claim on 23 February 2021 after reviewing the particulars of claim, which 
appeared to link back to events of anti-social behaviour stemming from 21 January 2013; 
before the UKG policy was on risk.  
Mr and Mrs M say that both claims should have been covered from the date of the first 
positive opinion from their barrister, at which point they shouldve had a solicitor assigned to 
their claim. Unhappy with UKGs handling of their claim, they referred the matter to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. He thought that UKG ought to have 
initially instructed a solicitor to assess the claim and considered that the insurer should 
backdate costs to the 15th November 2020. He also considered the insurer had wrongly 
declined the nuisance claim in light of the barristers advice. UKG disagreed, so the matter 
was escalated to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on 8 January 2022. I said I intended upholding Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint in part and set out the following reasons:
Trespass claim - FP0270873
Mr and Mrs M do not think it was fair for UKG to seek a further opinion from a 
barrister when they had already provided one. The policy wording states that UKG 
may obtain an independent opinion from a barrister in the event of a dispute over 
prospects of success, which Mr and Mrs M didnt consider there to be. But the 
opinion issued by counsel in August 2020 did not constitute full advice (in his own 
words). So, by going straight to another barrister (rather than panel solicitors), UKG 
were simply bypassing the preliminary stages of their claims handling process in 
order to save time and costs, which I dont think is unreasonable. 
It isnt unusual for an insurer to instruct a barrister to assess a claim in the first 
instance rather than a solicitor, particularly where the claim is complex, and 
especially when there has already been a preliminary opinion from another barrister, 
as this would tend to carry more weight than the opinion of a solicitor in any event. 
If UKG had instructed their panel solicitors, for example, and they gave a different 
opinion to that of Mr and Mrs Ms counsel, it wouldve always likely resulted in the 
insurer having to refer the matter to counsel for a final opinion. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the insurer to act outside what it says in the policy terms and 
conditions in order to skip to the end of the process, as instructing a solicitor could 
have delayed matters further given that Mr and Mrs M had already sought a 
preliminary opinion from a barrister. I also note that UKG did contact its panel 
solicitors for an opinion, but they returned saying they were unable to act as they 
were conflicted, so they were not even able to obtain their panel solicitors opinion in 
any event. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M do not consider it was reasonable for UKG to seek a 
further opinion. And generally speaking, if a policyholder has submitted their own legal assessment from a legally qualified professional, I would expect it to have taken 
this into account. But an insurer is entitled to test the validity of a claim and the 
evidence it has been presented if it has reasonable cause to do so. And in this 
instance, UKG had further questions not just around the prospects of success, but on 
matters concerning whether the claim formulated part of a previous dispute or would 
be considered as a new claim (and if so, at which point the date of the event 
occurred) which the barristers initial opinion of 12 August 2020 did not cover.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKG to seek a further opinion on the claims 
coverage in these circumstance, particularly in the case of complicated litigation 
(which I note counsel himself deemed this dispute to be) and where numerous other 
claims had already been made that could be linked and therefore fall under the remit 
of other insurers. .
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M consider that UKG was trying to frustrate the process by 
insisting on an opinion from an independent barrister. But if an insurer has doubts or 
wants further clarification of the advice provided by the insured, they are entitled to 
seek an independent opinion from another barrister, so long as it is reasonable to do 
so and if it covers the costs of any further opinion. I acknowledge that UKG 
eventually agreed to fund a further opinion from Mr and Mrs Ms barrister in any 
event, but that does not mean they were wrong or had acted unfairly by initially 
requesting an independent opinion from another barrister.
UKG agreed to cover the trespass claim after counsels addendum of 1 February 
2021, but have acknowledged there were delays, so it agreed to backdate the claims 
coverage to 30th November 2020, which was the date of the previous opinion issued 
by counsel. I think this is a fair and reasonable compromise, as the insurer required 
clarification on the start date of each insured event before it could determine whether 
it fell within UKGs policy coverage. But I also accept that the insurer could have 
reviewed matters sooner, and it has said itself that there were sometimes delays in 
responding. However, Im satisfied that 30 November 2020 represents a fair and 
reasonable date for the claim to be backdated to  that being the date of the prior 
opinion issued by counsel. Therefore, any costs incurred prior to this date would not 
be covered under the policy. 
Nuisance claim (anti-social behaviour) - FP0273094
UKG agreed to cover Mr and Mrs Ms nuisance claim following counsels opinion of 
1 February 2021, which confirmed that the event date couldnt reasonably have 
occurred prior to 2014 (thereby falling within the scope of UKGs coverage). 
However, UKG subsequently declined the claim anyway after it transpired that the 
particulars of claim had included incidents that stemmed back to 21 January 2013 
(concerning the parking of the neighbours vehicle). UKG said the issues in relation to 
the nuisance claim therefore began prior to the start of its policy on 13 September 
2013.
The policy terms and conditions state that UKG will not cover:
Events before the insurance starts:
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind which occurs as a 
result of an event before the period of insurance starts. 
The policy defines the date of an event as:Date of event  the date of any event which may lead to a claim; where there 
is more than one such event, the date of the first of these.
In terms of the date of the event for the nuisance claim, counsel stated in his 
February 2021 opinion: 
There are some events that are more serious as time progresses. As I said 
in my original advice it is difficult to pinpoint precisely the first event that may 
lead to a claim. You have asked me to pinpoint under which policy the claim 
would likely activate. There is nothing in the schedule DRM1 which 
indicates to me there was an event that may have led to claim for 
harassment or anti-social behaviour in 2013. My opinion is that by mid-
2014 there is an increasing body of evidence that suggests the neighbours 
are a problemIt seems to me the most serious events occur in the more 
recent years. However, I am willing to accept that by mid-2014 there had 
been sufficient incidences to the point that it can be said there was an 
event that may lead to a claim for injunctive relief to protect from anti-
social behavior or harassment.

I have been asked to give my objective opinion which is that the trigger 
date for the policy is mid-2014 and as such it falls within the [UKG] 
insurance policy above [My emphasis added].
The barrister concluded that there was nothing to indicate that there was any event 
which may lead to a claim occurring in 2013. So it is not clear on which basis UKG 
are now proposing that there is any such event. UKG have said that counsel did not 
consider the policy definition of date of event in his opinion. But I fail to see how the 
insurer has reached this conclusion, as the definition is referenced within counsels 
February 2021 opinion, and he refers multiple times to the date of the event which, 
in his professional opinion, he didnt think could have occurred before 2014. 
I appreciate that earlier instances of behaviour have been referenced in the 
particulars of claim. But counsel said that the first such instance that could be 
considered as giving rise to a claim occurred after the 2013 incidents. So, it doesnt 
matter that there were earlier minor incidents before 2014, because in counsels 
opinion they wouldnt fit the definition of being an event which may lead to a claim, 
or indeed the first such event that may lead to a claim as per the policy definition. 
The insurer has already received counsels opinion in this regard, which also stated 
that it would be an unreasonable position to decline cover simply because an earlier 
incident was referenced to bolster the presentation of the nuisance claim:
The key point here is lead to a claim. It could not have led to a claim in harassment 
or anti-social behaviour at that time by itself. Could it be part of a later claim for 
harassment or anti-social behavior yes but only to assist the presentation of the case, 
I do not see that its a trigger event for the purposes of the insurance policy 
particularly in relation to harassment and anti-social behaviour specifically.
It might be added to bolster a claim to show how the Defendants have behaved 
cumulatively. It strikes me that it would be a nonsense that a case might not be 
insured because an individual has put on a schedule an earlier incident to help to 
show the behaviour of his neighbours when if he simply left that incident off his 
schedule he would be insured.I agree with counsels opinion in this respect, but UKG have nonetheless decided to 
decline the claim on this basis anyway, without any supporting contrary opinion from 
another barrister to demonstrate that the above opinion is incorrect. So I do not 
consider it to be fair and reasonable for UKG to now decline the nuisance claim. 
Therefore, I intend directing the insurers to cover it, backdating the claim to 30 
November 2020 for the same reasons as the trespass claim set out above. 
Im also of the opinion that UKG have also frustrated matters here by seeking to 
reject cover in the face of legal advice saying it falls within their scope of coverage. 
So, I intend awarding £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr and Mrs M as a result of its unfair declination and the uncertainty this has 
caused them. 
I also note that UKG has said it will not reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the case 
management report their solicitors completed for their claims. But seeing this is 
something the insurer required, I do not think its fair and reasonable for it to refuse to 
reimburse these costs. So this is something that should also form part of the claim. 
Finally, if Mr and Mrs M have had to pay any other legal costs towards either their 
nuisance or trespass claims after 30 November 2020, I intend directing UKG to 
reimburse the reasonable costs theyve incurred prior to the conclusion of the claim, 
provided that Mr and Mrs M are able to provide reasonable proof of such costs to the 
insurer. This is the point UKG ought to have started funding both claims, so it would 
not be fair or reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs M to wait until the conclusion of their 
claims to be reimbursed their legal costs for which they are now out of pocket. 
I invited further evidence and arguments from both parties. UKG had nothing further to add 
and Mr and Mrs M put forward further submissions for consideration with regards to the 
backdating of cover and compensation awarded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have made several further submissions and Ive read and considered 
everything theyve sent in. But I dont intend to respond to every point theyve made. My 
provisional decision sets out in full my reasons for upholding the complaint and those 
reasons still remain. So, Ill focus on what I consider to be the main points theyve raised. If I 
dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Instead, its just that I dont feel the need to reference it in order to explain 
my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy  its just a reflection of the informal nature 
of our service.
Backdating of claims
Mr and Mrs M submit that UKG should backdate their trespass claim earlier than 
30 November 2020 because it originally started life in 2018. I appreciate they consider the 
trespass claim to have started in July 2018 when the neighbours originally submitted the 
planning application. However, there would have been no cause of action in trespass until 
the building work actually encroached on to their land. I also understand that they provided 
UKG with expert evidence regarding the trespass on 6 August 2020. However,  as I set out 
in my provisional decision, it wasn't until 30 November 2020 that the insurer had a full legal 
assessment of the claim which confirmed not only the claims prospects, but other crucial 
information on coverage such as whether the incidents formed new claims and, if so what the start date of each claim would be. Due to the complexity of Mr and Mrs M's claim, I don't 
think it was unreasonable for UKG to have sought clarification on these matters before it was 
in a position to confirm cover. 
I also set out in my provisional decision that I didn't think it unreasonable for the insurer to 
seek an independent barrister's opinion on the claims, which Mr and Mrs M refused to 
consent to. I understand they had concerns over the impartiality of the barrister chosen by 
UKG, but I've not seen anything that would persuade me the opinion would not have been 
independent. Indeed, barristers are governed by professional codes of conduct and can be 
subject to review by the Bar Standards Board if they were act unprofessionally. UKG also 
gave Mr and Mrs M a list of barristers to choose from, but they did not agree to a further in-
depth assessment until UKG eventually allowed the opinion to come from their own barrister. 
So, I'm mindful that it also wouldn't be fair to backdate the claim any further in these 
circumstances because coverage couldve likely been confirmed sooner if Mr and Mrs M had 
allowed UKG to seek an independent opinion when it first requested one. Therefore. I'm still 
persuaded that 30 November 2020 marks a fair and reasonable compromise for the claim to 
be backdated to, as the claim hadn't sufficiently been shown to fall into UKG's scope of 
cover prior to this.
Costs
Mr and Mrs M said theyve had to pay their opponents costs of £8,000 on 2 December 2020 
as well as their solicitors invoice, which was for work carried out prior to 30 November 2020 
in relation to the injunction they sought. I appreciate these costs were paid after the point the 
Im proposing for UKG to backdate the claim to. But if the payments were made in relation to 
matters that occurred prior to 30 November 2020 (such as the adverse cost order resulting 
from the injunction application), then these would not need to be covered by UKG because, 
in line with the findings in my provisional decision, it will only need to cover legal costs 
incurred for either claim after this point.
I understand that UKG has already paid certain costs that were incurred prior to 
30 November 2020, such as the barristers opinion of 15 October 2020. But this is to be 
expected, seeing as it was the insurer that requested the opinion. This is also the reason 
why I considered that UKG should reimburse the cost of the case management reports 
(even though they were completed prior to 30 November 2020) as it was UKG who had 
requested them, so it is the insurer that should pay for them. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs M have incurred significant costs prior to 30 November 2020. 
But for the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect 
UKG to have to cover anything prior to this date with regards to the trespass and nuisance 
claims. 
Compensation
Mr and Mrs M do not consider an award of £250 to be commensurate to the distress and 
inconvenience they have suffered. I have considered their submissions in this regard, and I 
sympathise with the very difficult circumstances they have had to endure as a result of their 
neighbours alleged actions. But it seems that a large part of the distress has been caused 
by the actions of their neighbours, rather than the insurer. Even if cover had been put in 
place sooner, for example, there is no guarantee it would have ultimately prevented the 
behaviour of their neighbours from continuing. 
As Ive already set out above, Im also conscious that Mr and Mrs M have partly contributed 
to the delay in getting cover confirmed by initially refusing UKGs request for an independent opinion. And while I wish them a swift resolution to their conflict with their neighbours so they 
can get back to enjoying their home, Im not persuaded that any further compensation is 
warranted in these circumstances. Therefore, Im satisfied that £250 is a proportionate 
reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused by UKG wrongly declining the nuisance 
claim. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct UK General Insurance 
Limited to:
Cover the nuisance claim for anti-social behaviour (FP0273094), backdating the 
claims coverage to 30 November 2020.
Reimburse the reasonable legal costs Mr and Mrs M have incurred themselves 
towards the progression of either the nuisance or trespass claims as of 30 November 
2020, upon presentation of evidence of any such costs being incurred.
Reimburse the cost of the case management report(s) completed by Mr and Mrs Ms 
solicitor for both the trespass and nuisance claims.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the amount paid towards the case 
management reports, and on any costs Mr and Mrs M have paid after 30 November 
2020, from the date they were paid until the date of settlement.
Pay £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman