DRN-3488097
The complaint
Miss S complains on behalf of Mr S and Mrs S that NRAM Limited (NRAM) sold Mr S and 
Mrs Ss property without their knowledge and at a price lower than its market value. 
What happened
Miss S says her parents owned a buy to let property that was repossessed by NRAM in May 
2018 as the loan on it had defaulted, following the expiry of its agreed term. Miss S says 
despite attempts to contact both NRAM and the appointed receivers, Mr S and Mrs S werent 
kept informed of the sale of the property, or the price that had been agreed for its sale and 
believes the property has been sold for considerably less than its market value. Miss S says 
she has evidence to support her claims that NRAM sold the property less than it was worth, 
based on comparable sales for similar properties in the same area and wants NRAM to 
reduce the outstanding shortfall debt by £10,000. 
NRAM says it had no obligation to provide updates on the property once it had been passed 
to and managed by a Law of Property Act Receiver (LPAR). NRAM says it sold the property 
at a fair market price, based on the pre-market valuation provided by an appointed qualified 
Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) surveyor, two estate agents and also its own 
asset manager. NRAM says these values were all for around the same amount and the sale 
achieved was above those valuations. NRAM says they have no record of Miss S or her 
parents attempting to contact them about this property sale and its records show it had been 
in discussions about other properties but not this one. 
Mr S and Mrs S werent happy with NRAMs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator informed Miss S this service couldnt consider the actions of the receivers, 
concerning the fees it charged, as that wasnt within our jurisdiction as the receivers arent 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
The investigator felt when looking at the sale of the property, NRAM had acted fairly when 
relying on the valuation it had received from an appointed RICS qualified surveyor. The 
investigator says NRAM acted in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage 
agreement when it appointed the receivers to act for them, to recover the monies owed. The 
investigator says evidence had been provided by NRAM to show notice had been provided 
to Mr S & Mrs S regarding the appointment of the receiver and that it had taken possession 
of the property to be sold, and it had no obligation to do any more than that.  
Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been a difficult time for Mr S and Mrs S to discover NRAM 
had sold their buy to let property and at a price they believed was under its market value. 
The first thing to say here is I cant comment on the actions taken by NRAMs appointed 
LPAR or the fees it charged, as that isnt something this service can consider under the rules 
we are governed by,  as explained by the investigator.
So when looking at this complaint, I will consider if NRAM acted fairly when it sold Mr Ss 
and Mrs Ss property at the price it did, and if it could have done more to keep Mr S and Mrs 
S informed of what was happening during that process.
Mr Ss and Mrs Ss complaint centres around two main issues, firstly NRAM hadnt kept 
them informed of the sale of their buy to let property and when it did sell it, the price it was 
sold for was under the market value and says they had evidence to support that.
Looking at whether or not NRAM had kept Mr S and Mrs S informed of the progress of the 
sale or its intentions do so, I cant say that I am persuaded by Miss Ss argument here. I say 
this because its fair to say Mr S and Mrs S had breached the loan account terms and 
conditions when they failed to repay the loan at the end of its term.
I can see that three letters had been sent to Mr S and Mrs S by NRAM twelve, six and one 
month before the expiry of the loan term in April 2018. In those letters it explained that Mr S 
and Mrs S needed to repay the borrowing in line with the loan agreement they had signed, 
and what the consequences would be if they didnt. NRAM in those letters told Mr S and Mrs 
S it could appoint a receiver to act on its behalf and if necessary sell the property, to recoup 
the outstanding debt on Mr Ss and Mrs Ss buy to let (BTL) loan account. 
In this case the receivers appointed by NRAM managed the property until the tenants 
vacated around April 2020 and then NRAM took the decision to sell it with vacant 
possession - informing Mr S and Mrs S of this in writing at that time. Given this, its 
reasonable to assume Mr S and Mrs S had sufficient opportunity to make other 
arrangements to repay the borrowing, as Miss S told this service was a possibility for them. 
Miss S hasnt provided this service with any evidence to suggest Mr S and Mrs S or herself 
had made attempts to contact NRAM before the sale went ahead. Even if they had, once the 
property had been repossessed and LPAR appointed, NRAM would have been at liberty to 
take reasonable actions to recover the loan monies owed and I am satisfied it did that here.  
Its worth making the point its in the best interest of a lender to achieve the best price 
possible when looking to sell a property, as this would help to ensure the debt outstanding, is 
reduced as much as possible. 
Here, Mr S and Mrs S feel NRAM have sold the property undervalue by as much as 
£10,000. While I understand the points they make here, I cant see that being the case, 
given NRAM have taken professional advice from an independently appointed RICS 
qualified surveyor, its own asset manager and two estate agents, all of which suggested a 
sale price within a similar range. From what I can see the property was independently valued 
at £65,000 and a suggested sale price of £70,000 and the surveyor used comparable local 
properties to support that valuation. I can see after one offer fell through, the property was 
sold in July 2020 for £74,500, completing a few months later. 
With that in mind I cant say that NRAM have acted unreasonably in accepting that offer and 
relying on the professional advice it was given at the time. While Miss S has provided this service with other examples of properties sold in the same area, these were at different 
periods of time. Its also worth remembering the sale of the property happened at the height 
of the Covid pandemic, which in all probability would have influenced the property market at 
the time -its also fair to say the property market is subject to fluctuations at any given time.
What is important here is NRAM did have the authority to sell the property for what it 
considered to be a fair market price, and this was done following a property valuation that 
was independently instructed and completed by a RICS qualified surveyor. With that in mind, 
and for the reasons I have already given, I am satisfied NRAM havent acted unreasonably 
here.  
While Mr S and Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
NRAM here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman