DRN-4073681
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under her home insurance policy.
References to British Gas include companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs W contacted British Gas to send an engineer to deal with an issue with a kitchen tap. 
The engineer cracked the kitchen sink. Both the engineer and Mrs W reported this. 
Mrs W also complained. When British Gas replied, it accepted it had failed to properly log 
the claim for about two months and that despite Mrs W trying to progress the claim over that 
period, no action was taken. It also noted that when an engineer had revisited the day after 
the sink was cracked, they incorrectly stated that no further work was required. Another 
engineer visited and found that the previous engineer had broken the tap as well as breaking 
the sink. He also found that the support under the unit was rotten and said it wasnt possible 
to fit a new sink. British Gas accepted this advice had been wrong. 
British Gas also accepted that about six weeks later it had contacted Mrs W and again 
incorrectly advised her that a new sink couldnt be fitted due to the rot. A couple of weeks 
after that, British Gas agreed it could replace the sink and tap due to it breaking them. It 
visited a couple of days later with a new sink. Mrs W had already purchased a new sink and 
asked for that to be installed instead. It requested a copy of the invoices for the sink and tap 
so that it could consider refunding the costs. It also noted that Mrs W said the engineer left a 
mess in her kitchen, but that Mrs W had cleared this up herself. British Gas also noted that 
Mrs W had to fill a bucket in her bathroom while she didnt have running water in her kitchen. 
It also noted Mrs W and her husbands health conditions and the impact on them, including 
that it ruined their Christmas. It offered £550 compensation because of the issues with the 
claim.
Mrs W complained to this service as she didnt think British Gas had fairly addressed the 
issues. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said British Gas should pay £1,000 
compensation, including because of the significant impact due to Mrs W having to transport 
water to her kitchen over a prolonged period, given her health problems and caring 
responsibilities.
As British Gas didnt agree with the increased compensation, the complaint was referred to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
British Gas doesnt dispute most of the details of what happened. It accepted that its 
engineer broke Mrs Ws sink and tap. It also accepted that it didnt take action to resolve the 
issues for about two months and that it was nearly three months later that it replaced the 
sink, having misadvised Mrs W about whether it was able to do so. British Gas is also aware 
that Mrs W had to transport water from her bathroom to the kitchen to have access to water 
for that period. 
Im aware British Gas offered Mrs W £550 compensation because of the range of issues. So, 
Ive thought about whether I think that is sufficient in the circumstances.
I consider that British Gas offered a significant amount of compensation. However, Im also 
mindful of the particular circumstances Mrs W was in because of her health condition and 
the caring responsibilities that Mrs W had for her husband due to his own health issues. 
British Gas is aware of these, but I havent explained what they are in my decision for 
privacy and anonymity reasons.
I think three months of transporting water between the bathroom and kitchen, potentially 
several times a day, would have an impact on most people. But because of Mrs Ws health 
conditions and circumstances, Im persuaded this would have a considerably greater impact 
on her. Im aware of British Gass comments about Mrs Ws mobility on the day its engineer 
visited and that it said she was able to move items about and feed her animals. It also 
disagreed that chasing British Gas for progress was likely to have affected Mrs W in the way 
she had described. So, Ive thought about this. I dont think the day the engineer visited 
showed what Mrs Ws condition was like over the nearly three-month period in which she 
waited for the sink to be replaced. Im also aware Mrs W disagreed with some of the way 
British Gas described her ability and that she has also explained her experience of her 
medical condition, including its impact on chasing progress and transporting water. Mrs W 
has also explained about her husbands medical condition and why that Christmas period 
was so important to her.
Im also aware British Gas said Mrs W was responsible for a number of the delays. This 
included it arguing that by raising a complaint this had slowed down progress, as this would 
have required an initial investigation to be carried out. It also said Mrs W hadnt accepted its 
advice about the rotten cupboard and that it could cause health and safety issues. In my 
view, this is inconsistent with what British Gas said in response to the complaint. For 
example, it accepted that despite repeated chasing by Mrs W, it hadnt progressed the claim 
until it was picked up by the complaints team two months later and that it had also 
misadvised about the rot. 
Having thought about this, Im persuaded £1,000 is a more appropriate level of 
compensation to recognise the impact on Mrs W. The sink and tap were damaged by British 
Gas. British Gas then didnt properly follow up on the claim for two months and also provided 
her with incorrect information on a few occasions, which added to the delay and impact on 
Mrs W. In my view, Mrs Ws daily life was seriously disrupted over a sustained period of time 
and I think this increased level of compensation is reasonable in the circumstances.
Im aware Mrs W was also concerned about whether British Gas would pay for the new sink 
and tap. I consider it reasonable that British Gas asked to see evidence, such as a receipt, 
and Im unable to comment on this further, as whether it pays for it or not is after the date 
British Gas responded to the complaint. Im also aware that Mrs W disputed some details 
about a wooden batten. However, I also consider that this issue isnt covered by the 
complaint I am considering.
Putting things right
British Gas should pay Mrs W £1,000 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs W £1,000 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman