DRN-4493408
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Gresham Insurance Company Limited has caused delays and 
failed to properly deal with a claim she made under a home insurance policy. Her husband 
Mr S leads as a representative of Mrs S in her complaint. So for ease Ive mainly referred to 
Mr S in my decision. 
All reference to the insurer Gresham in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Mrs S made a claim to Gresham for water damage to their home in March 2022. 
Mr S raised complaints to Gresham and the Loss Adjuster (LA) appointed by Gresham. 
Gresham responded to Mr Ss complaints on 16 June 2022. 
Mr S raised further complaints in June 2022, which Gresham replied to on 8 September 
2022. 
Mr S contacted this service in February 2023 and asked us to look at his complaints. 
In May 2022 Gresham issued a cash settlement payment to Mr S for their buildings 
insurance claim and their contents claim (for a hallway carpet). 
The complaints this service can look at are the ones Gresham responded to in September 
2022, which Mr S raised in June 2022. This is because Mr S was given six months to bring 
his complaint to us from the date of a final response from Gresham. So I cannot consider the 
complaints Gresham responded to on 16 June 2022, as Mr S contacted us after the six 
month timeframe. 
In June 2022 Mr S was asked by the LA to provide a quote from an independent contractor 
to support his view that the cash settlement offer was unreasonable. Mr S was unhappy that 
Gresham wouldnt accept the costs hed provided for the works which were considerably 
higher than the LAs scope. 
Mr S however did provide a scope of works from a contractor, which Gresham said it would 
have a second contractor review. But due to existing workloads, Gresham instead reviewed 
the quote internally - and in September 2022 it didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint about this. 
Gresham said it was satisfied it had fairly priced the works against its own contractor rates 
and its cash settlement was fair. It reiterated that it could not share its pricing for the works 
as this is commercially sensitive information. 
Gresham accepted that some of it and the LAs communication with Mr S had been poor at 
times. For this it offered Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
In August 2023 our Investigator issued her view. She said she didnt think Gresham should 
pay Mr Ss contractor rates for the scope of works. But she thought as Gresham had chosen 
to settle the claim by was of a cash settlement, it should take into consideration what it would 
cost Mr S to have the works done. She recommended Gresham reassess the quote in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions and remove its limit of liability on the scope of 
works. 
Mr S said he was happy with the recommendation for Gresham to reassess its process and 
its offer. But he said his complaint about the LA - and Greshams procedural issues - hadnt 
been addressed. 
Gresham didnt agree. It said the policy says that if it settles a claim as a cash settlement, 
the most it will pay is what it would pay its approved contractor for the works. It said it offered 
for an approved contactor to carry out the works for Mr S in April 2022. But Mr S wanted to 
use his preferred contractor - and this wasnt something Gresham could agree to as it said it 
would use one of its network of available contractors once the works was assigned. 
So Gresham said it had settled the claim reasonably as a cash settlement and in line with 
the policy. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 November 2023. I thought Greshams cash settlement 
was fair and in line with the policy. 
Gresham accepted my provisional decision. Mrs S didnt reply. So the case has been 
passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision is on the same lines as 
my provisional decision. My provisional findings were;
As Ive said, I can only consider the complaints Mr S raised after Greshams final 
response dated 16 June 2022, which it responded to on 8 September 2022. 
I can see that on 28 July 2022 Mr S asked the LA questions about a mandate he 
intended to provide from his preferred contractor. If Mr S is unhappy about the 
response - or lack of - in relation to this issue, he will need to raise this as a 
complaint to Gresham first. If he has received a final response, and he remains 
unhappy, he can ask us to then look at that complaint separately to my decision.
I can see that in its final response dated 16 June 2022 Gresham said it would ask the 
LA to call Mr S to discuss the cash settlement with him and provide guidance, where 
possible on what the differences are. 
It was as a result of the subsequent calls between Mr S and the LA that the LA 
suggested Mr S obtain a quote from his preferred contractor which it would review. 
Having provided a quote, Gresham reviewed it - but said that it was satisfied its cash 
settlement payment was fair. 
On 29 April 2022 Gresham gave Mr S the option to have an approved network 
contractor carry out the works for the cash equivalent price it offered as a settlement 
alternative to Mr S. I can see that Mr S wanted to know who the contractor would be 
and a start date before he would agree to this option. Gresham explained that it 
couldnt do this as it would appoint the available contractor once it received Mr Ss 
instruction and that contractor would advise on a start date. 
So, given that Gresham offered Mr S to carry out the works as an alternative to the 
cash settlement, which Mr S didnt agree with, I dont think Gresham should 
reconsider the cash settlement offer. 
Gresham as the insurer is entitled to deal with the claim in line with the policy. It 
provided the option for Mr S to have an approved contractor appointed by Gresham 
to carry out the repairs. It provided a reasonable explanation as to why it couldnt 
meet Mr Ss requirements - or it would pay a cash settlement for the equivalent 
amount. Greshams policy says:Settling claims (except liability)
We can choose to settle your claim by repairing, rebuilding, giving you an 
equivalent replacement or making a payment.
If we are able to repair, rebuild or replace your property but agree to settle 
using cash or voucher we will only pay you what it would have cost us to 
repair, rebuild or replace it.
As Mr S didnt agree with the settlement amount, he was given the opportunity to 
provide an alternative quote which Gresham considered. But having done so, it 
remains of the view that it has fairly settled Mr Ss claim. And I think it has done so in 
a fair way and in line with the policy. So I dont intend to ask Gresham to do any 
more. 
I think Greshams offer of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by some poor communication by it and the LA is reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I think Gresham has done enough to resolve Mrs Ss complaint from 
its reply dated 8 September 2022. So I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman