The complaint
Mrs As complaint is mainly about the suitability, monitoring, performance (and reporting) of 
the Aegon One Retirement Pension Plan (the pension) recommended to her by The 
Langridge Partnership LLP (TLP). She is also unhappy about not being given information to 
access the pension directly and about TLPs handling of her complaint.
What happened
A chronology of key events is as follows:
The background of the TLP adviser who recommended the pension to Mrs A features
partly in the complaint. He previously worked for Aegon and she questions why he
recommended an Aegon pension populated with only Aegon funds (and cash). TLP
says the adviser worked for Aegon for 22 years up to 2011; he joined TLP in 2011;
and he advised Mrs A from 2015 onwards.
Mrs A had a settlement related lump sum capital of over £1 million which materialised
in 2016  the pursuit for which began in 2015, with some assistance from the TLP
adviser. This is the capital that was invested in the pension and TLP says the adviser
helped Mrs A to apply for HMRC Lifetime Allowance Enhancement Factor given that
the capital was above the relevant Lifetime Allowance for pension funds and in order
for her to avoid tax on the excess value.
The pension, recommended by the adviser, began in 2017; 50% of it was invested in
the Aegon Secure Retirement Income (SRI) fund, 25% of it was invested in the
Aegon Cautious Core Managed (CCM) fund and 25%  was held in cash.
By late 2018 Mrs A says her concerns about the pension, about its performance,
about its performance reporting and about the ongoing lack of clarity from the adviser
(about these matters) reached their heights and led her to have a final meeting with
him and her son (a professional in the financial sector). The meeting did not address
her concerns. She then moved the servicing of her pension from TLP to another firm.
Mrs A complained to TLP in late January 2019. It responded in the following month.
Mrs A says mainly as follows:
The pension (especially its contents) was unsuitable for her. Its performance
prospect was unduly restricted at the outset because the adviser imposed his own
cautious approach to investments upon it  instead of reflecting hers. She had a
moderately adventurous risk and investor profile and she had the capacity  given
her personal and financial circumstances at the time  to accommodate some risks
with the pension. She wanted to do so in order to give the pension potential to grow.
In contrast  and because of the advisers cautious profile and his fears about Brexit
 she was led into a pension with two cautious funds and an inactive (and
substantial) cash holding.
DRN-1431399The advisers recommendation of an Aegon pension wrapper and only Aegon funds 
creates the notion that he was unduly influenced in doing so because of his 
background with Aegon. [The suggestion being that, in the process, he was not (or 
was less) influenced by her best interests.]
The adviser/TLP did not inform her about being able to access the pension directly 
on Aegons platform. She would have used such access, given that the advisers 
reporting on the pension and on its performance was usually poor and unclear.
The pension, overall, appears to have been relatively inactive and has lacked growth.
She appreciates that the adviser did a great deal of initial work with regards to the 
pension, however in light of the failings she has complained about TLP should, at 
least, refund the charges it has earned from her/deducted from her funds.
TLPs response to her complaint did not properly answer her queries and it did not 
give proper notice of her right to refer to this service.
 
TLP disagrees with Mrs A. It mainly says as follows:
The advisers history with Aegon caused no conflict in or compromise of his service 
to Mrs A. To the contrary, she benefitted from his substantial high level experience in 
pensions (including his senior level experience at Aegon). In the course of his work at 
TLP he dealt with many other pension providers on a regular basis. Over the three 
years of his work for Mrs A he had 22 meetings with her, including meetings at the 
outset in relation to achieving the lump sum settlement for her. Furthermore, he spent 
many hours in research, preparation and implementation related to her pension 
arrangements. He also helped Mrs A with the Lifetime Allowance Enhancement 
issue. Overall, there is not a fair basis to refund TLPs charges.
Mrs A was indeed assessed as having a moderately adventurous profile. However, in 
discussions with the adviser  whose instinct was cautious and was influenced by 
concerns about Brexit  it was agreed that she would take a cautious approach with 
the pension. This was in order to preserve her capital and to avoid taking 
unnecessary risks with it, given that she was an inexperienced investor and the 
pension was substantial enough to cater for her future income needs without 
substantial growth. 
The SRI fund guaranteed a minimum level of annual growth in pension benefits (with 
the facility to lock in growth beyond the minimum level) and minimum income for life 
when income drawings began; Mrs A benefited from a 75% discount in fees for the 
Aegon pension wrapper; for its initial advice and implementation of its 
recommendations TLP should have charged Mrs A around £14,000 but it discounted 
this substantially to around £8,500; it applied its minimum charge of 0.5% for its 
ongoing monitoring and advice service for the pension (deducted from it); and all 
charges were agreed with Mrs A.
Mrs A did not request direct access to her Aegon account and such access was only 
given upon request.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and broadly agreed with TLPs position. 
She did not consider that the complaint should be upheld. She also said Mrs A is correct to 
say TLPs final complaint response was required to include proper notice of her referral right, 
but complaint handling is not a regulated activity and the matter has not prevented her 
referral of the complaint to us.
In the main, the investigator referred to evidence that she said showed Mrs A had a risk 
profile between balanced and moderately adventurous, but closer to balanced; she reflected 
contents of the suitability report sent to Mrs A which support TLPs assertion about the cautious approach that was agreed for the pension, and noted that Mrs A would have been 
expected to object to any inaccuracies in it at the time; she considered that there is evidence 
of substantial work performed by the adviser for Mrs A and that TLPs fees were clearly 
presented to and agreed by her at the outset; she considered it more likely (than not) that 
Mrs A was informed (possibly briefly) about direct access to her Aegon account and that the 
matter of the pension funds performances was a matter for Aegon, not TLP, to account for; 
and she was not persuaded that the advisers history with Aegon unduly influenced his 
advice.
Mrs A disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She repeated 
her key points and considered that the investigator had not properly addressed them. The 
matter was then referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold Mrs As complaint. I acknowledge her strength of feeling about the complaint 
and I consider that her arguments have been sincerely presented. However, overall, it 
appears possible that the notion of what was suitable for Mrs A in 2016/2017 has been 
substituted within the complaint by what she now considers to have been more suitable with 
the benefit of hindsight. 
In addition, it appears that the complaint was promoted mainly by Mrs As dissatisfaction with 
the advisers monitoring of and reporting on the pension  culminating in the September 
2018 meeting (with the adviser) she attended with her son, after which she remained 
dissatisfied (possibly more so). Her view on the pensions performance also appears to have 
been a prompt. In this context, the matter of the pensions suitability appears to have been a 
secondary consideration. I do not suggest that Mrs A is not concerned about the pensions 
suitability but her view on it could have been defined  or coloured  by her primary concerns 
about monitoring, reporting and performance. 
In any case, the matter of the pensions suitability is now the feature of the complaint and I 
address it a further below. First, I wish to address the other matters that Mrs A has raised 
and I do so as follows:
The facts of the advisers history with Aegon do not appear to be in dispute. Mrs As 
concern in this respect  and especially as the pension wrapper and funds 
recommended by the adviser were all Aegon products  is completely 
understandable. I accept the possibility that the adviser was, to some extent, 
influenced by this history in the course of making his recommendations. I have not 
seen enough evidence to say this was probable or certain, but even if there was such 
evidence a wrongdoing is not automatically established by that. Any such influence 
could have existed in good faith and for the benefit of Mrs As best interest  for 
example, the use of any intimate familiarity the adviser had with Aegon products to 
consider funds genuinely viewed as beneficial to her. In the alternative, such 
influence could  as has been suggested  have existed for reasons other than Mrs 
As best interest.  In addition to the absence of evidence to show, on balance, that the 
adviser was probably influenced by his Aegon history, there is also a lack of evidence 
to show that if such influence existed it was against Mrs As best interest.
I note Mrs As objection to the investigator suggesting that she was probably informed 
about the direct online access to the Aegon account.  However, I also understand the investigators reasoning in this respect. There does not appear to be evidence 
explaining why the adviser would not have informed her about this access, in the 
course of their numerous engagements between 2016 and 2018. I accept that there 
is also no evidence of Mrs A being expressly informed about this access, but that 
does not mean that she was not. In the absence of evidence to tip the balance in her 
favour, I do not consider this an issue I can reasonably uphold.
The pension funds were not managed by TLP, so I agree with the investigator view 
that it would not be reasonable to hold TLP accountable for the management and/or 
performance  or inactivity  of the funds. If Mrs As point is limited to saying her 
pension should not have been invested in the SRI and CCM funds (and/or held partly 
in cash) and that this has affected growth of the pension, that point relates to 
suitability  which I address below.
I also agree with the investigators view on Mrs As claim for a refund of fees 
deducted by TLP from her pension. The initial and ongoing fees  the latter being 
deducted from the pension  were properly disclosed to her at the outset and were 
agreed by her. Available evidence supports this conclusion. They also appear to have 
been significantly discounted in her favour. There is no dispute between the parties 
about the adviser conducting a significant body of work initially and leading into the 
pension being set up. Thereafter, I appreciate that Mrs A did not consider her many 
meetings with him to be informative or valuable, but I do not have enough evidence 
about the contents of all the relevant meetings to determine this. However, there is 
sufficient evidence of an advisory service to Mrs A that began with substantial work 
by the adviser (from his role in achieving her lump sum settlement to implementation 
of his pension recommendation) and then continued with many meetings with her up 
to 2018. There appears to have been an average of at least six such meetings per 
year. In the context of many advisory services having one annual review client 
meeting and perhaps one or two more meetings per year requested by the client, this 
was arguably above average client engagement. Overall and on balance, I consider 
that TLP provided the service to Mrs A that she was entitled to and it should not have 
to refund its fees. 
 
I now address the matter of suitability.
Mrs As financial profile in 2016 included the following (based on the fact find document of 
February 2016): 
Her home was worth almost half a million pounds and it was mortgage free; in 
addition, she was debt free and had no liabilities.
She was not employed but she had net incomings of £5,000 per month (£60,000 per 
year) and there was no expected future change in her income; she had £3,000 per 
month in outgoings and £2,000 per month in disposable income.
Her assets included around £35,600 in cash deposits, a preceding personal pension 
(separate from the Aegon pension) valued at around £30,000 and around £140,000 
in investments (in a General Investment Account and in an Individual Savings 
Account).
 
The advisers recommendation/suitability letter in January 2017 does not appear to have 
been disputed by Mrs A at the time. This is not a criticism and I accept that she was entitled 
to rely upon advice she was paying for. However, the point that the investigator suggested 
and that I endorse is that the implication arising from her not disputing or correcting the 
contents of the letter at the time  at least, as far as they related to her circumstances, 
objectives and attitude to risk  is that she considered them accurate and that they are accurate/reliable. The letter provides the following additional information about Mrs As 
investor profile:
She had no need for income from the pension because her existing incomings were 
sufficient.
She wanted flexibility in and control of income from the pension. She also wanted, in 
the event of her death, the ability to bequeath the pensions funds to her children.
She and the adviser agreed that an annuity would be unsuitable as it would not offer 
the flexibility over income that she wanted. They also agreed to set up un-crystallised 
pension that allowed her to choose an income option in the future.
She was experienced in investments generally.
She wanted the pension to be partly protected and to have the ability to lock in the 
ups and income purchasing power of part of the funds.
She had a preference for some guarantee of income.
From discussions between the adviser and Mrs A, her risk profile was concluded as 
balanced, but based on a formula based assessment it was moderately adventurous.
 
The letter also says that the SRI was recommended because of its guarantees and the CCM 
was recommended on the basis of an agreement with Mrs A to take a cautious approach 
with the pension due to Brexit.
TLP does not dispute that the adviser had a cautious approach towards his 
recommendations for Mrs A, especially in the context of his concerns about Brexit. On 
balance, I also consider that there is an element of merit in Mrs As claim that he was guided 
more by this approach than he was by her moderately adventurous profile. 
However, a number of points arise  Mrs A also had a balanced risk profile; she also wanted 
a part of her pension capital to be protected; she also wanted to lock in gains in purchasing 
power of part of the pension; and she also wanted some guarantee of income. These 
elements essentially made the moderately adventurous profile either redundant or 
significantly less relevant. They would have provided a basis upon which the adviser 
reasonably concluded that a cautious approach with the pension was called for. A high risk 
approach was arguably unlikely to deliver the protection and guarantees Mrs A wanted. 
Furthermore, this could also have invited the adviser to apply, to his recommendations, any 
cautious leanings he personally might have had.
All of the above was set out in the suitability letter Mrs A received and did not dispute. If the 
portrayal of a cautious approach, with the pension, was not what she wanted or what she 
discussed and agreed with the adviser, she would have disputed this letter  but she did not. 
On balance, I consider that it was the approach she wanted and agreed with the adviser at 
the time. This does not automatically mean the recommendations were suitable. The need 
remains to consider whether (or not) they were suitable for her overall profile. 
In straightforward terms, Mrs A was financially secure in 2016 and for the foreseeable future 
thereafter. I do not wish to breach the particular confidentiality of her incomings and lump 
sum settlement so I will not go into their details. However, both appear to have been secure. 
She was debt free, mortgage free and had ample (and secure) disposable income  to the 
extent that there does not appear to have been a short or medium term prospect of her 
needing income from the pension. There is also merit in TLPs comment that the pension 
value was in itself, and without substantial growth, sufficient to cater for her future income 
needs  provided that its value was not eroded over time. In this overall context  and given 
that the pension matched the profile Mrs A presented to the adviser (as addressed above)  
I am not persuaded that the pension was unsuitable.I share the investigators view on the matter of TLPs final response letter. It should have 
given proper notice of Mrs As referral rights and in the context of our jurisdiction - and if that 
was in doubt - this would be relevant. However, in the present context TLP's response 
addressed the main issues and gave a reasoned outcome - and, as the investigator said, 
Mrs A was not prevented from referring the complaint to us thereafter.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I am not persuaded to uphold Mrs As 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman