DRN-3644697
The complaint
Mr I complains that he was given unsuitable investment advice by St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc, referred to as SJP or the business in relation to an investment bond. 
In summary, he says:
The fees werent made clear to him, and he wasnt aware of what he paid for the 
advice. 
The fees were at the back of the illustration, but he didnt see them, and the adviser 
didnt make them clear. 
Since making the investment, hes been misled. The fees werent mentioned in the 
16 January 2015 suitability letter (when he initially invested £135,000) or the 11 May 
2015 suitability letter (when he invested a further £50,000). 
He doesnt agree with the email from his adviser dated 8 July 2020 suggesting that 
he didnt pay any upfront charges/initial charges for the investment bond  hes 
unhappy because the bond (apparently) had an early withdrawal charge for this very 
reason. 
In other words, the adviser made him think he hadnt paid any initial fees  but lied 
and misled him, and hes unhappy the initial fees are included as a chargeable gain. 
Had he been aware of the fees, he wouldnt have invested.   
The recommendation wasnt the most tax efficient investment  its justification 
doesnt hold water. It wouldve been more suitable to invest in collectives, general 
investments, or unit trusts, to utilise his capital gains tax (CGT) exemption and 
dividend taxation. 
Hes complained numerous times about the poor returns  hes got 5% a year from 
other investments. He wasnt allowed to take more money from his investment, 
probably so that SJP could take a higher commission from the balance of his 
investment. 
He doesnt think a non-independent business like SJP should be allowed to take 
more of a percentage, of its clients money.  
As a result, he says hes suffered financial loss and would like the business to compensate 
him for his losses. 
What happened
SJP didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that the charges for the investment 
were set out in the key features document and Illustrations which Mr I was given when he 
made the investment. 
It also said that the fees were made up of charges for the initial advice, ongoing advice and 
for the product itself, together with the cost of managing and maintaining the underlying 
investments. However, SJP paid Mr I £250 compensation  as a gesture of goodwill  for the 
length of time taken to respond to his complaint.  
Unhappy with SJPs response, Mr I referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
SJP supplied Mr I with a copy of the key features illustrations (KFI) for the various 
investments made, so he cant say that the charges werent clearly set out. 
oThe KFI in relation to the initial £85,000 investment prepared on 17 November 
2014, has a section titled How much will the advice cost? which sets out that 
the businesss advice isnt free and that the initial cost of the advice is 
£3,825.
oThe document also explains that:
the cost covers all the expenses incurred in providing, 
checking and guaranteeing the suitability of your advice
theres an ongoing charge of 0.5% each year for ongoing 
advice, so for £85,000 invested the annual fee would be £425
the cost for the initial advice and ongoing advice will depend 
on the size of the contribution, the term of the plan and the 
value of your fund
oThe KFI supplied in relation to the £50,000 investment, prepared on 24 
November 2014, was also set out in a similar format to the earlier KFI making 
clear that the advice wasnt free  the initial cost of advice was £2,250, with 
an ongoing fee of 0.5%.
oThe KFI supplied in relation to the £50,000 investment, prepared on 20 April 
2015, was similar to the previous two documents supplied  but this one also 
set out that the (£2,250) cost of advice was the equivalent to 4.5% of the 
initial investment.  
The January 2015 suitability letter doesnt explicitly set out the cost of the bonds. But 
in Part 3  My Recommendation, under the section titled Charges it says these 
were discussed in more detail before Mr I decided to proceed as per the illustrations 
and Key Facts document (the adviser) left you with. This made clear that there were 
charges, and where to find more details. 
As part of its commercial decision making process SJP is entitled to set its own fees, 
as long as it made these clear to customers. In this instance it hasnt behaved 
unreasonably. 
Any incorrect information provided by the business in the email dated July 2020, 
doesnt mean that the recommendation is unsuitable or that the complaint should be 
upheld  it hasnt had a bearing on Mr Is decision to invest which happened a few 
years earlier. 
Just because Mr I wasnt advised to invest in a general investment account (GIA)  to 
enable him to make use of his annual dividend allowance and CGT exemption so he 
didnt have to pay 40% tax  doesnt mean he was given unsuitable investment 
advice. 
It was made clear in the suitability letter that Mr I required an income of £4,000 a 
month/£48,000 a year, to meet his total expenses. At the time, he received an 
income of £17,200, after tax, from two rental properties and £5,500 in dividends from 
his share portfolio, which left him with a £25,300 annual income deficit. 
Mr I had been relying on the interest received from his £1.1M investment to make up 
the shortfall. 
Previously, hed been able to achieve a 4.5% fixed rate return a year, from five-year 
fixed rate bonds. But at the time, fixed rates (at best) were around 1% -1.5%, and 
thats why he wanted advice on how to meet his income need and requirements. 
The suitability letter shows that other investments were considered but werent 
suitable. For example, SJP said:
oUnit trusts were unlikely to be able to generate a monthly income which Mr I needed for retirement. It also explained how a unit trust would allow him to 
use his CGT allowance on encashment  whereas the investment bond 
wouldnt allow this. But it also said that Mr I didnt have the confidence to 
encash and reinvest on a regular annual basis to make use of his CGT  
which meant he wanted something easy to manage.  
oA unit trust feeder hadnt been discounted. The adviser planned to discuss 
this when other investments had matured in March 2015. 
oInternational investment bonds (IBBs) were discounted as they were mainly 
for non-UK domiciled investors. IBBs were potentially suitable for UK resident 
non-taxpayers who were prepared to hold the investments for ten or more 
years. Mr I was a UK basic rate taxpayer, so this option wasnt suitable. 
oEnterprise investment schemes and venture capital trusts were also 
discounted, because Mr I wasnt looking to invest in small companies with a 
riskier profile.  
The advice to invest £15,000 in an ISA fully utilised his 2014/2015 allowance, which 
helped to reduce tax in line with his wishes. 
The advice to invest £135,000  which could generate up to 4% a year, without 
incurring a chargeable event charge  included advice to delay the initial £5,400 
withdrawal for 12 months, to avoid incurring an unnecessary charge. Whilst Mr I 
mightve been able to achieve a higher return elsewhere, this doesnt mean the 
recommendation by the business was unsuitable.    
Despite what Mr I says, there is nothing to say that SJP  as a non-independent 
business  wasnt allowed to hold more than a certain percentage of his money, 
theres no regulation in this respect. 
oThe suitability letter made clear that Mr I wanted to diversify adviser risk by 
not investing all the newly matured deposit money  around £300,000 -
£400,000 with one adviser. It was also noted that hed spoken with another 
business as well as SJP. 
oIn any case, Mr I had various fixed rate deposit accounts worth £1.1M and 
other investments worth £285,000 and theres nothing to say that the amount 
invested with SJP was unreasonable. 
Following the retail distribution review (RDR), changes were introduced by the FCA 
regarding how financial advisers were paid. Advisers could choose whether to charge 
via the product or via a separate fee arrangement. SJP chose the former. Despite 
what Mr I says about fees and the chargeable gain calculation, the investigator cant 
say the business has done anything wrong. 
Based on what Mr I says, it seems he was given six months to move his investments 
away from SJP without penalty, but he was still charged a penalty fee of £423.70.
oSJP explained that it did so, only because it received Mr Is signed form 
accepting the refund after it had encashed the investment. Nevertheless, it 
refunded the money within five days of receiving the form.   
The £250 compensation was offered in relation to the way his complaint was 
handled. Thats not something he can comment upon because complaint handling 
isnt a regulated activity.   
Mr I disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said: 
The investigator hasnt understood the complaint and has ignored key aspects of it. 
His complaint letter was structured using separate headings: unprofessional 
response from partner, exit penalties, chargeable gain in investment bond, 
excessive charges, unsuitable product choice, but the investigator hasnt 
considered the exit penalty not being waived and the potential loss caused. 
The investigator has ignored the thrust of his complaint which is that SJP provided incorrect information to his new adviser, which has led to unexpected tax charges. 
oHes not challenging the tax principle if the fees are being treated as a 
withdrawal. Hes complaining that SJP provided incorrect figures to his 
adviser when it asked for the figures to calculate the gain.
He maintains he wasnt made aware of the excessive fees. 
SJP offer unit trusts  a portfolio of unit trusts is a GIA, and its possible to make 
withdrawals from such a portfolio. So, its incorrect that they didnt offer a GIA or 
similar product. 
He doesnt agree with the investigators findings that the recommendation was 
suitable, for the following reasons:
oHe wanted tax efficiency, but the recommendation is less tax efficient than 
unit trusts. 
oSJP offer unit trusts. 
oHe didnt say that he wasnt confident in encashing and reinvesting on a 
regular basis. 
oA bond isnt easier to manage for him than unit trusts, and this is the advisers 
job in any case. The investigator assumes unit trusts are more complicated 
but theyre not.  
His new adviser has also taken legal advice and confirms that hes been wronged by 
SJP.    
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary he said:
The exit fee was an error, based on when the business received Mr Is signed form 
agreeing to the refund. SJP has since repaid the money so the issue has been 
resolved. 
He doesnt agree that Mr I wasnt made aware of the fees. As the advice was given 
some years ago, its possible Mr I cant recall the extent of what was discussed. The 
documents show that the fees were considered/discussed.
SJP said that it didnt offer a GIA, and a cursory look through what they provided at 
the time, confirms this.   
Despite what Mr I says, a GIA isnt a portfolio of unit trusts. 
As no agreement was reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr I says, Im unable to safely 
say that the busines behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note Mr Is strength of 
feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support this complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he wont take the fact my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised either. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Mr I, and SJP, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair, and reasonable decision, based on the facts of the case. 
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr I was given key policy documentation that made it 
reasonably clear that the advice in respect of his investment wasnt free, and that relevant 
charges applied  such as the initial cost of the advice and what that covers, the ongoing 
annual (percentage) charge, and also how the charges might differ depending on the size of 
the contribution, term of the plan, and value of the fund. In other words, in the circumstances 
and on balance, Im unable to safely say that SJP didnt make reasonably clear, the 
charges/fees that applied to the advice/services provided.
Despite what Mr I says, Im also satisfied that the suitability letters made clear that there 
were charges, and where to find them by reference to the key documentation mentioned. So, 
in this instance, I dont think the business behaved unreasonably by not specifically spelling 
out the charges (again) within the suitability letter.
Whilst I appreciate what Mr I says about the cost of the advice/service provided, a business 
is entitled  in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement  to set its 
own fees, as long as it has made this reasonably clear to its customers, which I believe SJP 
has on this occasion. Its not for us to tell a business what it should charge for 
advice/services provided. 
If Mr I didnt understand or disagreed with the fees he couldve raised an issue with the 
adviser at the time, or decided not to go ahead with the recommendation at any point within 
the cancellation period  Im mindful that Mr I isnt without investment experience and wasnt 
unfamiliar with the concept of fees/charges. I note he was described as having some 
previous experience of investing in bonds, equities, and property for example.  
I note Mr I moved advisers, and thats when he questioned the suitability of the fees and 
advice given by SJP. On balance, it could be argued that Mr I, on reflection, isnt happy 
about the fees paid (and advice given which I will consider below)  but thats not something 
I can blame SJP for, for the reasons Ive already set out above. 
Despite what Mr I says, on balance, Im unable to safely say that the fees werent referred to 
or discussed verbally  in other words, its more likely than not they were discussed. If he still 
needs clarification/further information regarding the fees charged, Im sure SJP will be happy 
to help  although Im conscious he no longer has the investment in question with it.
I note what the investigator says about incorrect information being supplied and even if the 
information in the email dated July 2020 is incorrect, its not a reason to uphold this 
complaint and ask the business to refund fees - for the same reasons as set out by the 
investigator, with which I agree. 
Based on the agreement with the business its not something Mr I is entitled to, even if he 
was told this information erroneously in the email  its not how redress works. I note SJP 
says that the adviser was merely trying to explain that the cost of the initial advice and 
ongoing advice form part of the total charges and arent in addition to them. In any case, on 
balance I dont think this amounts to a loss of expectation either. 
Im mindful of what Mr I says about the business taking fees out of the investment  rather 
than separately  but a business is entitled to charge fees for its service which I dont think is 
unreasonable. Neither is the business choosing how it does this. I note the business says:SJP can choose how we want to charge this; by facilitating from our products or by fee 
charging arrangement and we made the decision to facilitate this from our products as 
confirmed in the point of sale documents. In this instance the cost of advice is treated by 
HMRC as a withdrawal from the bond for tax purposes. 
Under the RDR firms were given a choice whether to facilitate adviser charging the product 
or via a separate fee arrangement  our model is to facilitate via the product which is in line 
with FCA rules on adviser charging.
Just because there were other options available, and whether or not a GIA  which I dont 
believe is just a portfolio of unit trusts (although it can contain unit trusts) contrary to Mr Is 
interpretation  was recommended, doesnt mean that the recommendation made by SJP 
was unsuitable for Mr I at the time.  
Im conscious that Mr I had an apparent income deficit and wanted advice on how to meet 
the income shortfall (without taking an aggressive stance), as well as growth on his 
investment, in a tax-efficient way to minimise tax. Based on what the business says, it 
seems he also didnt want anything complicated presumably meaning where hed have to 
intermittently act himself.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr I now says, Im broadly 
satisfied that the recommendation in the main met his objectives for income, growth, and tax 
efficiency  without being swamped by lots of paperwork. In other words, I agree with the 
investigator that the investment was set up to generate a set amount of income each month 
 to cover Mr Is income shortfall  without a great deal of complication and may explain why 
he didnt invest his money in buying up more buy-to-let properties for example.  
In my opinion, the issue here isnt just about whether or not unit trusts are more complicated 
than bonds, or whether there was a more tax efficient alternative, this isnt simply what the 
recommendation was based upon. 
Any suggestion that Mr I was persuaded to follow a course of action that he didnt want to, 
isnt correct. He wasnt obliged to follow the business recommendation. He couldve said no, 
at any point during the meeting or if he felt he couldnt at the time, afterwards during the 
cooling off period or any point thereafter  but he didnt. 
Despite what Mr I says, I note the business recommended a 4% income from the investment 
after deduction for management fees to be on the safe side rather than 5% (without an 
immediate income tax liability)  the business accepts that this perhaps couldve been made 
clearer because the fee is levied on the value of the investment, which incidentally isnt of 
itself unreasonable. Whilst he might have been able to generate a higher income elsewhere 
 but probably not without other issues arising  this doesnt mean the recommendation was 
unsuitable. 
The recommendation still broadly met Mr Is objectives and need for income. I note in the 
example Mr I refers to he says he wanted more money than he was getting, but the adviser 
had this sort of charm power, a tactic where he controlled me. Be that as it may, I still think 
Mr I couldve changed his mind if he wanted to at the outset or even later, and him instead 
choosing to follow the advisers recommendation isnt something I can blame the business 
for. 
The arguments put forward by Mr I are probably with the benefit of hindsight  but in any 
event theres no way an adviser wouldve known in advance which investment wouldve 
done better, and from what I can see no guarantees were given. Besides, I note Mr I decided 
to encash and move his investment after his relationship with his former adviser (apparently) broke down, and did so of his own volition in consultation with his new adviser who 
presumably wouldve/ought to have advised him about any tax liabilities following the move  
without advice from SJP. Therefore, I cant blame SJP for his actions, or any losses claimed. 
As Ive alluded to above, Im not here to decide if the business couldve done things 
differently, or if another product was more suitable. As Ive mentioned, my role is to consider 
if the recommendation was suitable/if the business has done anything wrong, and on the 
face of the evidence and on balance, Im unable to safely say that it has.
Based on the suitability letter, referred to by the investigator above, Im satisfied that other 
investments were considered and discounted in favour of the recommendation  except for 
the unit trust feeder which was in essence postponed until sometime in 2015 when other 
investments matured. I note other investments were discounted because Mr I didnt fit the 
investor profile, or the investments carried more risk than he was prepared to take.
On balance Im satisfied that unit trusts and CGT were considered but unit trusts werent 
considered right for Mr I. I dont think the business was saying he wouldnt receive an 
income, its just that it probably wouldnt be a fixed, regular and known income  in other 
words, the income hed receive from one quarter to the next would be unspecified and 
volatile. 
I note it was also recorded that Mr I was looking for an investment that was easy to manage 
administratively, whereas the unit trust distributions will need to be detailed in his annual 
self-assessment for tax. It seems Mr I wasnt confident to encash and reinvest (on a regular 
basis) to make use of the CGT allowance, which undermines his arguments in favour of unit 
trusts. If he disagreed with this, he ought reasonably to have raised an objection at the time. 
I appreciate what Mr I says about the business being a tied agent but there was nothing to 
suggest that he couldnt invest the amount he did with the business. In other words, Mr I was 
entitled to invest as much money as he wanted with SJP if he was happy with the 
recommendation(s)  I note he chose of his own volition to move a number of his 
investments to SJP which he wasnt obliged to. Theres nothing to suggest that he shouldnt 
invest over a certain amount if thats what he wanted to do. Given his portfolio, Im unable to 
say that the amount invested was unreasonable in this instance. 
Despite what Mr I says about the surrender fees charged this was evidently charged by the 
business in error. I note the fund had been encashed before Mr I had sent the signed form  
accepting a refund of the exit penalty  and thats why the fees were initially (automatically) 
deducted from the investment itself. The business has since refunded those fees  it did so 
on 12 February 2021  within five days of receiving the acceptance form. So, in the 
circumstances and on balance, I dont agree that Mr I paid tax on money he didnt receive. 
I appreciate Mr I might not be happy with the overall performance of his investment. But 
complaints about investment performance alone is not something that our service would 
consider. The performance of an investment is dependent on market movements and isnt 
something that a business can predict, control or guarantee. In this instance Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that SJP gave Mr I any guarantees about the growth of his investment. 
I note Mr I isnt happy that his adviser didnt as much as thank him for the business over six 
years or wish him well on his future endeavour or that he/the business would be happy to 
deal with him in future. Im also mindful that his adviser feels somewhat upset by the 
complaint, as it were. Despite what Mr I says, on balance, Im unable to safely say that the 
business hasnt acted fairly, professionally, and in accordance with his best interests. I note the business has offered Mr I £250 compensation for its complaint handling. Its a 
matter for him whether or not he accepts this amount  if he does, Id expect the business to 
pay it. But, for the reason made clear by the investigator, its not something I can comment 
upon.    
 
I appreciate that Mr I will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman