DRN-2805743
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that ReAssure Limited mis-sold them a life and critical illness policy. 
Mr and Mrs W were sold the policy by another business. ReAssure has since taken over 
responsibility for all that business actions  including the sale of Mr and Mrs Ws policy. So, 
for simplicity, Ill refer to ReAssure throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out life and critical illness cover in 1993. In 2020 Mr W was unfortunately 
diagnosed with basal cell carcinoma  a form of skin cancer. He made a claim to ReAssure. 
ReAssure declined the claim as Mr and Mrs Ws policy has an exclusion for most types of 
skin cancer. 
Mr and Mrs W complained to ReAssure. They said they werent made aware of exclusions to 
their policy and were led to believe by the adviser who sold it to them in 1993 that theyd be 
covered for all types of cancer. ReAssure didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr and Mrs W 
were provided with the terms and conditions of the policy which made the exclusion for skin 
cancer clear. ReAssure also found the policy met Mr and Mrs Ws needs and requirements 
at the time of the sale. Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said there was no evidence 
from the point of sale documentation that comprehensive cancer cover was a priority for 
Mr and Mrs W. Or that a discussion took place about whether the policy covered all cancers. 
Our investigator also explained how the skin cancer exclusion was made clear in the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and have asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. They 
said a critical illness policy with comprehensive cancer cover was a priority which they 
discussed with the adviser. Mr and Mrs W said they didnt receive the policy terms and 
conditions from ReAssure in 1993  and so maintained they were unaware of any exclusions 
for cancer until they claimed in 2020.  They said they were advised categorically by the 
adviser that there was no exclusion to the cancer cover. And it was on that basis that they 
went ahead with the sale. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr and Mrs W feel strongly about this complaint and so this will come 
as a disappointment to them. But as Ill go on to explain, I dont think ReAssures mis-sold 
them their policy. 
Im also sorry to hear about Mr Ws ongoing health problems and financial worries  
particularly around the amount theyre paying for the policy. I want to assure Mr and Mrs W 
that I havent taken this decision lightly, and I dont in any way underestimate what a difficult 
and worrying time this is for them. If Mr and Mrs W have concerns about the cost of the 
policy going forward, then this is something they could discuss with ReAssure. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Mr and Mrs W havent complained about ReAssures decision to decline Mr Ws claim. So, 
Ive not commented on that decision here. 
Mr and Mrs W say they wanted comprehensive critical illness cover to include all cancers 
without exclusion. And that they made this clear to the adviser who sold them the policy. So, 
my focus is on whether Mr and Mrs W were misled into thinking the policy they took out in 
1993 provided the level of cover they say they wanted.  
Mr and Mrs W say they were told by the adviser in 1993 that there were no exclusions in 
respect of cancer. I dont dispute their recollections. But I must also be mindful of the fact we 
have no documentary evidence to support that such discussions took place. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened - in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive looked carefully at the fact find document from the time of the sale. And there is no 
evidence of a discussion around the specific need for cancer cover, or that the adviser told 
Mr and Mrs W that all cancers were covered, without any exclusions. As Ive already said, I 
dont dispute Mr and Mrs Ws recollections  and there might have been a general 
conversation around the need for cancer to be covered in the policy. But given the lack of 
documentary evidence, and that in my experience a policy with no cancer exclusions is 
extremely unusual, I think on balance its unlikely the adviser confirmed to Mr and Mrs W 
that the policy they were recommended would cover all cancers without any exclusions.
Looking now at the information provided to Mr and Mrs W about the policy in 1993  I can 
see reference is made to the terms and conditions. I can also see that the terms and 
conditions make it clear there are exclusions to the cancer cover  including skin cancer. 
Mr and Mrs W say they never received the terms and conditions of the policy in 1993  and 
so were unaware of the exclusions. I dont know exactly what information Mr and Mrs W 
received. But I think its unlikely such an important document wasnt provided. And 
Mr and Mrs W couldve asked for a copy of the terms and conditions if it wasnt provided with 
the other information they did receive. So, I cant say ReAssure did anything wrong here. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs Ws strength of feeling. But having taken everything into 
account, I dont think ReAssure mis-sold them their life and critical illness policy. And so, I 
wont be asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman