DRN-3292073
The complaint
Mr O complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limited settling a claim on his car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O hit a van in the rear. He asked Admiral not to settle the claim as he wanted to settle it 
directly with the third party. Admiral agreed to do this but then went ahead and settled the 
claim directly with the third party themselves. Mr O didnt think this was fair and complained 
to Admiral. He also said hed lost his no claims discount (NCD) because of it. 
Admiral reviewed the complaint and agreed it should have spoken with Mr O first. Admiral 
said Mr O could buy the claim back if he wanted to and that it would re-instate his NCD. 
Admiral also offered £75 compensation for the error. Mr O didnt think this was good enough 
and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Os complaint and didnt recommended it was upheld. He 
found that Admiral had agreed it had done something wrong but said what it had done to put 
things right was fair and reasonable. Mr O didnt agree, he said Admiral had paid more for 
the claim than he would have if hed settled it directly. He provided quotes for repairs to the 
van and for a hire vehicle. Our investigator sent these to Admiral to consider. 
Admiral responded and said the repair quotes didnt include all the work needed to repair the 
third-party van. It also said it had gotten preferential rates on the hire vehicle and said it 
wasnt guaranteed the third-party would have agreed to Mr O repairing their van anyway. 
Our investigator reviewed Admirals response and still didnt think Admiral needed to do 
anymore. 
Mr O disagreed so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Os policy, like most policies we see, give Admiral the right to 
take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might make a
decision Mr O disagrees with and not try to recover its outlay or settle a claim from the third
party or their insurer. But wed look at whether Admiral made a reasonable decision in doing
this based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the case.
In this complaint Admiral has agreed its made an error by settling the third-party claim 
before speaking with Mr O. Ive therefore looked at whether Admiral has done enough to put 
things right. And Im satisfied it has. 
I say this because Admiral said Mr O can buy the claim back by paying Admiral what it cost 
to settle the claim. By doing this it would also reinstate his NCD. I understand Mr O 
disagrees with the amount Admiral paid to settle the claim and thinks it paid too much but Im 
not persuaded it has. 
This because Admiral has provided a report of the damage sustained to the third-party van 
which lists the work needed along with repair costs. This method used by Admiral is 
commonly used by insurers when assessing claim costs. Admiral has also confirmed that it 
would have got preferential rates which help keep its costs down. 
Ive also considered the quotes Mr O has provided but theyve not persuaded me Admiral 
has done anything wrong. This is because they dont include all the repair work listed in the 
report provided by Admiral. Also, Admirals engineer inspected the third-party van and so is 
likely to be more accurate in order to cover all of the repairs needed. So, Im not persuaded 
theyre like for like quotes.
I understand Mr O isnt happy with Admiral settling his claim as his NCD has been affected. 
But Im not persuaded Admiral needs to do anything more. It therefore follows that Im 
satisfied the £75 compensation offered for the distress and inconvenience caused is enough 
to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Im satisfied that Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds 
offer of £75 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman