DRN-3538446
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that SumUp Payments Limited restricted its account 
resulting in financial loss.
What happened
E opened a merchant processing account with SumUp. E attended a largely cashless event 
starting on 23 July 2021. E found that after a period of trading it could no longer process 
client payments because its account hadnt been verified. And as SumUp couldnt do that at 
the time E had to turn away business.
SumUp said that it hadnt make a mistake. It said that E had opened its account on 14 July 
2021 and there was a test transaction on 19 July 2021. E started actively transacting on 23 
July 2021 and it had reached a threshold of £5,000 of payments by 24 July 2021. It 
contacted E for more documents and those initially sent didnt meet SumUps requirements. 
The account was verified on 2 August 2021. It said that to make the onboarding process as 
smooth as possible it permits merchants to transact up to £5,000 while it is making checks 
to meet regulatory requirements. And that is because the process can take some time. The 
potential to request further documents was set out in its terms and conditions. It had offered 
E an account credit of £60 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The terms and conditions 
stated that:
2.3. When you have registered and signed up for an Account and accepted these Terms, 
we will perform checks in accordance with applicable know-your-customer, anti-money 
laundering, and anti-terrorism financing laws and regulations as determined by us in our 
sole discretion. We may run a credit check on you and/or require you to supply additional 
documentation in order for us to fulfil our obligations. You agree to assist us in that regard 
to the extent requested.
2.4. The decision whether your information has been properly verified and vetted according 
to section 2.3 will be entirely at our discretion. Until you have been successfully vetted by 
us, we reserve the right to terminate or not provide any Services under these Terms.
He said that SumUps website had information about the specific £5,000 threshold that 
applied before verification had been completed. And it also stated that if this was expected 
to be exceeded quickly then to contact SumUp. It had shown that this information was 
available on the website at the time that E applied. He said that the terms and conditions 
also excluded SumUp from liability for consequential loss.
E didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. The information on the website 
now is difficult to find and our investigator had to be guided to this by SumUp. The only 
information E saw at the time of signing up was that some companies might be required to 
supply more documentation. And that this verification process was automatic which it 
wasnt. This wasnt fairly disclosed. It wanted reference to be made to its conversation with 
customer services and which could have directed it to the link about the limits. And it 
thought the automatic disconnection of the service without notification or the ability to 
rectify this was an unfair contractual term as was the exclusion of consequential losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
E, is a business, and I would reasonably have expected that any agreement was read and 
understood before it was entered into. This agreement set out that it was subject to checks 
as referred to above. While I take Es point about the potential difficulty of finding the specific 
information on the website which detailed the limit, it was also open to E to enquire about 
any terms it didnt understand and whether its account had been fully verified. 
The alternative to SumUp providing this limit would be not allowing E to transact before all 
the verification was done. I note from the dates given above that although verification could 
be quick it took a number of days here. And there didnt seem to be any guarantee for 
example that it would have been done before the event that E attended. 
E explained to this service that it relies on trading on key weekends during the Summer 
period. It took card payments for more than a months equivalent of its annual turnover within 
a day. And E indicates on its complaint form that it lost some £4,000 in additional business 
when it could no longer take payments. 
I havent seen any evidence that SumUp had started the further verification process by then. 
Based on information its provided through our investigator it seems that the process may be 
triggered by a certain amount of transactions. And it says it has systems to notify 
milestones, but that E reached the £5,000 limit too quickly for these to be effective here. It 
says that the onboarding team was available that weekend which I know E doubts. And that 
a requested invoice E sent it on Sunday 25 July 2021 wasnt sufficient to confirm Es 
products and services. As I set out above it took several further days for the specific 
information it needed to be obtained and verified. I dont see it ought to have allowed E to 
trade beyond the limit during this period as E asked and it followed its process.
The overall result was an unfortunate one for E. Having balanced all the factors I dont find a 
basis to think that SumUp made a mistake or acted unreasonably and in so doing caused a 
financial loss for E. I dont then need to go on to assess any specific terms and conditions 
about whether it was excluded from liability for such a loss in any event.
I know that the director of E will be disappointed by my assessment. If E doesnt accept my 
decision it remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits. I 
understand that the account credit of £60 remains available for E if it contacts SumUp. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman