DRN-2869016
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers Limited (Aberdeen) closed its 
ASI UK Recovery Equity Fund. He says hed planned to invest for the long-term and that the 
redemption of his units resulted in a financial loss. He wants Aberdeen to compensate him 
for the loss and for the distress caused.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr Y didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
Aberdeen recommended the investment was held for a long period. It didnt act in clients 
best interests when it closed the fund.
It seems that the fund was closed following a merger and that Aberdeen sacrificed the 
small investor against the benefits of the merger.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Y invested in the fund on an execution only basis. In other words, Aberdeen did not 
recommend he invested in the fund, so it didnt need to make sure it was suitable for him.
But it did need to provide enough clear information for Mr Y to decide whether the fund was 
right for him. I havent seen anything to suggest that Aberdeen knew it would be closing the 
fund when Mr Y decided to invest in April 2016.
Although Ive not seen the key investor information document (KIID) that Mr Y would have 
read before he decided to invest in the fund, I think its more likely than not that that 
document would have pointed out the risks of fund investment. So I think Mr Y would have 
understood that the value of his investment could go down as well as up when he invested.
I can see that a key part of the funds objectives was to generate growth over the long term 
(5 years or more) . And I accept that Mr Y invested for the medium to long term, intending 
to hold the fund for five to ten years. But I dont find there was any obligation on Aberdeen to 
keep the fund open for this period. And the closure of the fund was one of the risks of 
investing in this, and any other, fund.
The requirements for closing a fund were also set out in Aberdeens terms and conditions. 
I dont find that Aberdeen acted outside of these terms.
Aberdeen set out the reasons for the closure of the fund in its letter in August 2020. I dont 
find Aberdeen acted unreasonably in the circumstances and Im not persuaded it didnt act in 
the best interests of investors. It explained that, following the funds largest investor deciding 
to redeem its holding, there was a risk to remaining investors of poor investment 
performance and proportionally higher costs  because of likely operating difficulties of a 
small fund.
The letter set out the options for investors. Mr Y was able to sell his holding, or switch into 
another Aberdeen fund. Or he could remain invested until the closure date when Aberdeen 
would redeem the units. So I think Aberdeen made the options  and what action Mr Y could 
take - reasonably clear.
Following his complaint, Aberdeen apologised for the concern and inconvenience caused by 
its decision to close the fund. As Ive not found it acted wrongly, or treated Mr Y unfairly, 
I dont find it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman