DRN-2025649
The complaint
Mr G and Ms M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr G and Ms M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1992. Mr G and Ms M paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case 
either one of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G and Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr G and Ms Ms case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Neither side still have the original documents from the sale, which is very understandable 
given that it was almost three decades ago. Indeed, under data protection rules, Halifax 
were required to dispose of Mr G and Ms Ms data rather than hold onto it for too long. Ive 
thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the limited information 
I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr G or Ms M into having 
PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long 
ago for me to reasonably require Halifax to be able to produce documents from the time to 
defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr G 
or Ms M. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively normal sales process, offered them 
a choice about buying PPI, and that they chose it at the time.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr G and Ms M, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend the policy  so to be fair to Mr G 
and Ms M, Ive assumed it did. That means Halifax had to check the PPI was right for them  
and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr G and Ms M were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
While Mr G and Ms M had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those 
and covered them for much longer. They also had insurance, but it was for different things to 
the PPI so Im afraid its not relevant here. I understand Mr G and Ms Ms family were happy 
to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this 
mortgage was in Mr G and Ms Ms names, not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve 
been suitable for Halifax to have recommended they rely on other people to pay it. 
Ultimately, its worth bearing in mind that if Mr G and Ms M fell behind on their mortgage, 
they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for them in protecting 
their home and providing some peace of mind.
It is possible that the information Halifax gave Mr G and Ms M about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr G and Ms M werent affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr G and Ms M could cancel 
it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr G and Ms M pointed out that theyd received refunds for other PPI policies, and 
I understand why they mentioned this. But different policies worked in different ways, were 
suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and 
so on. So even if one given policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a different 
one was, too. We look at each case on its own merits, and Ive explained above why I have 
not found that this particular policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I dont uphold Mr G and Ms Ms complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman