DRN-3643433
The complaint
Mr T complains that Skipton Building Society made an entry on a fraud prevention database 
in connection with a buy to let mortgage application he made.
What happened
Mr T applied to Skipton for a mortgage. Skipton considered his application and declined it. 
And it placed a marker on the National Hunter database in connection with his application, 
recording that there were inconsistencies between what he had told it and information it 
had found elsewhere.
Mr T discovered the marker and complained to Skipton. It refused to remove the marker, so 
Mr T complained to us. He said that as a professional landlord with a portfolio of properties 
his income fluctuated depending on the rent he received. So if Skipton had found 
inconsistencies, there would be a good explanation  but it hadnt asked him for one. He 
wants the marker removed. He says it has an impact on his ability to obtain credit, which is 
particularly important for him in his profession. 
Skipton said that it was justified in recording the marker, and wouldnt agree to remove it. 
Our investigator didnt think it had acted unreasonably. As Mr T didnt agree, the complaint 
comes to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skipton considered Mr Ts mortgage application and declined it  as it was entitled to do. No 
lender is obliged to accept an application and lend. Nor is there any requirement to give 
reasons for declining an application.
In this case, Skipton also placed a marker about Mr T on the National Hunter database. The 
marker it placed was for inconsistency  which requires evidence of a clear discrepancy 
between what Mr T said to Skipton, and what it was able to find or verify from other sources.
Mr T applied for this mortgage through a broker. He is a professional landlord, and declared 
his other properties. He said that he acted as a sole trader and declared his net profit from 
his business activities as his income.
Mr T also provided personal and business bank statements. The business bank statements 
were not in his own name, but in a trading name. That name is the name of a limited liability 
partnership (LLP), of which Mr T is a member. The LLPs bank statements show payments 
into Mr Ts personal account. Companies House records show that Mr T is also a director of 
a limited company. Skiptons lending criteria are different for applicants who are sole traders 
compared to applicants who are self-employed through limited companies and LLPs. And 
Skipton also identified internal discrepancies in the information Mr T provided about his 
income and tax.
Mr T said he gave full and accurate information about his circumstances to his broker, who 
completed the application. He said the limited company was dormant, and the LLP had only 
recently been set up at the time of the application.
Ive checked, and the limited company didnt become dormant until several months after the 
application. And the LLP was set up several months before, and was clearly trading by the 
time of the application  as shown by the activities on the bank accounts included with it.
In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable that Skipton concluded that there was 
an inconsistency between what it had been told by Mr T and what it was able to verify for 
itself. And therefore it was reasonable for it to conclude that it had enough to justify recording 
the marker on the National Hunter database. 
There are levels of markers on the National Hunter database. An inconsistency marker is not 
a fraud marker. But it will be visible to other lenders who consult the database when Mr T 
makes future applications for credit. Other lenders should not use the presence of a marker 
as a reason, of itself, to refuse an application  though it may prompt more detailed checks. I 
appreciate why, in his business, the presence of a marker is concerning for Mr T. But I dont 
think I can fairly ask Skipton to remove it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman