DRN-2175050
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has settled her claim for lost items 
under her home insurance policy.
Any reference to Aviva also includes its contractors.
What happened
In late 2019 Miss Ms home was burgled and amongst other things, a large amount of 
jewellery was stolen. 
Aviva accepted the claim and asked Miss M for information about the jewellery to assist in 
valuing it and providing a settlement offer. 
Aviva provided two options to settle the claim. For items it didnt think could be replaced, 
such as those Miss M had said were bought abroad, it offered £1,495 in cash. This was for 
the market value of the items. For items Aviva said it could replace, it then offered the 
remaining £8,269.90 (less her excess) in vouchers to be redeemed at two high street 
jeweller chains. Alternatively, it said Miss M could have a cash settlement of £5,940.20 for all 
of the items. 
Miss M accepted the valuation of the jewellery but complained about the terms of the 
vouchers and the restrictions on them, such as not being available for items on sale. She 
also said the vouchers had a three-month expiry date, which was too short to replace 
jewellery shed accumulated over many years. 
Aviva said it could extend the vouchers for a further three months at a time if they ran out, 
but it didnt agree to do anything further. It also said its policy document explained that 
vouchers would be offered as part of the settlement. But when Miss M checked her policy 
wording, she found no mention of vouchers being an option of settling the claim. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted fairly in reaching the offer it had. He said the terms 
of Miss Ms policy allow Aviva to settle the claim in a number of ways, and it had followed 
these. He said the vouchers were of a higher value than the cash offer because of the 
discount insurers can receive with some high street jewellers. 
Miss M didnt accept what our investigator said, so the matter has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything differently. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Miss M to hear, and I recognise many of the items shes lost held very 
sentimental value to her. 
Aviva did give Miss M incorrect information about the terms of her policy which caused her 
unnecessary confusion. Miss Ms policy says it can choose to settle claims by:
replacing, reinstating, repairing, payment.
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent 
available in the current market. If we are able to replace property, but we agree to 
make a cash settlement, we will only pay you what it would cost us to replace the 
item as if it were new.
For items it couldnt replace, it offered the full cash value, which is fair as it allows Miss M to 
source them herself if possible. But for items that can be replaced at high street stores 
vouchers are commonly issued. This is so that the insured, in this case Miss M, can choose 
the most suitable replacement.
I agree with Miss M that vouchers arent specifically mentioned in her policy, but I dont think 
being offered them as part of replacing her items is unreasonable. Miss M had nearly 30 
pieces of jewellery stolen, and just over half Aviva considered could be replaced. I think 
allowing Miss M to choose her replacements at a convenient time to her is a fair way of 
settling the claim.
According to the policy terms, for items that can be replaced, Aviva is only required to pay 
cash based on the cost to them as an insurer of replacing those items. Aviva can get the 
vouchers it provides at much less than their face value, because they receive a discount with 
high street jewellers. This is the reason the voucher settlement is much higher than the cash 
offer. So whilst Miss M is able to choose a cash settlement instead, it doesnt mean Aviva 
has to pay the full value of the vouchers in cash. 
I appreciate this is not what Miss M was expecting, and I recognise it must be hard to 
replace items of such sentimental value. But I dont think Avivas offer is unfair to Miss M.
The vouchers do hold some restrictions on what theyre able to be used for. And there is a 
three-month date on them. But Aviva has assured Miss M and this service that it can extend 
or renew these vouchers if needed. I hope this provides Miss M some reassurance about the 
time she has to spend them.
Ive noted that the nearest jewellers are a fair distance from her home, and Miss M has 
reservations about buying jewellery online. But if the vouchers arent suitable Miss M has the 
cash offer available to accept. So I dont think Aviva needs to provide any further options to 
Miss M.
This has no doubt been a stressful time for Miss M, but based on everything Ive seen I dont 
think Aviva needs to do any more to settle the claim. It is for Miss M to decide which offer 
shed like to accept from Aviva.My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman