DRN-3071460
The complaint
Miss D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly registered a default or late payment marker 
on her credit file.
What happened
Miss D says she opened a new Lloyds account but didnt receive the PIN and account card. 
She says Lloyds continued to charge her the £3 a month account fee and reported adverse 
information about the account to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). Miss D says that is 
unfair as she told Lloyds she hadnt received the account card and later the PIN.
Lloyds says Miss D agreed to the account terms and conditions when the account was 
opened in December 2020. It says a £3 a month fee was charged, and it correctly reported 
the account position to the CRAs. Lloyds says its records confirm it sent a PIN and account 
card when the account was first opened but accepts when Miss D called it, only a new card 
was re-ordered as Miss D said she had the PIN.
Miss D brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
didnt think a default had been registered on Miss Ds credit file but a late payment marker. 
And thought Lloyds was obliged to report accurate information to the CRAs. The investigator 
thought Miss D responsible for the £3 a month fee and was aware of it as she had told us 
she knew it needed paying.
Miss D doesnt accept that view and says it is unfair that a late payment marker was applied 
in these circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss D will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which Im satisfied Miss D agreed to when 
the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that a £3 fee will be 
charged by Lloyds in certain circumstances. Im satisfied Miss D has told us and Lloyds that 
she knew about that fee. So, I dont think Lloyds made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
charging that fee and by accurately reporting the account position to the CRAs when Miss D 
didnt pay that fee.
I make clear that Im satisfied that Lloyds has a duty to report the accurate position of its 
customers accounts to the CRAs.
I appreciate Miss D says she didnt receive the PIN, but I dont think she told Lloyds that for 
some months and in any event, it was still her responsibility to pay the account fee or tell 
Lloyds earlier. I can also see that Lloyds fairly tried making contact with Miss D and that she 
had online account access which showed the fee and the account position.
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds correctly charged the fee and correctly told the CRAs what the 
account position was when the fee, in effect, wasnt paid. For those reasons I cant fairly 
order Lloyds to remove the late payment marker. I make clear that I think Lloyds has acted 
fairly by refunding the charges in circumstances where I dont think it was obliged to do so.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman