DRN-2742341
The complaint
Mr Zs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc, 
referred to as the business.   
In short, the CMC says Mr Z was assessed as a balanced risk investor but advised to invest 
in high risk funds. It didnt see that he had any funds invested in cash, gilts or bonds which 
is consistent with a balanced approach.   
What happened
In 2005, Mr Z was advised to invest £180 a month into the Unit Trust ISA, within the 
International Fund. He was also advised to transfer his PEP and ISA to the business and 
invest equally in four funds. 
It was recorded that Mr Z was 47 years of age and married. He had no financial dependents, 
and jointly owned his home outright  with his wife  worth around £500,000. 
It was also recorded that Mr Z was newly self-employed as a consultant and had an annual 
(gross) income of £15,000 and was anticipating a higher income. Mr Z had the following 
savings and assets:
oA PEP worth £6,500.
oAn ISA worth £24,000. 
oCash/bank deposit of £15,000. 
I note it was also recorded that his attitude to risk was three out of five, or balanced /medium 
and his objective was capital growth, tax efficiency and accessibility over the medium to long 
term. It was recorded that he had a moderate investment experience. 
 
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said:
The confidential Financial Review Document (the FRD) confirms that Mr Zs attitude 
to risk was medium, as confirmed in the suitability letter. 
Mr Z was advised to transfer his ISA/PEP from a third-party provider  approximately 
worth £30,000  to the business, which was invested equally across the following 
four funds: UK and General, Greater European, Recovery Trust and International 
Trust. 
The investment management department confirmed all the funds had exposure to 
cash, with a medium level risk, apart from the Greater European fund which had an 
upper medium risk rating. 
Mr Z discussed with the adviser his attitude to risk. He was also left with a brochure 
entitled Guide to Choosing your Attitude to Risk. The suitability letter confirmed the 
funds that Mr Z had selected and their risk profile. It also said that he accepted some 
additional risk to balance his portfolio. 
Mr Z elected to contribute £180 a month into the International Trust medium risk 
fund. This wouldve benefitted from pound cost averaging thus reducing exposure to 
market volatility and is likely to have diluted the effect of Mr Zs choice to select an 
upper medium risk fund. 
Mr Z raised no issue at the time and instead raised his contribution to £500 per 
month in December 2005 and added a further lump sum in 2008. 
Theres no evidence that the recommendation wasnt right for the Mr Z at the time.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Its not our role to risk rate funds or determine whether the risk rating for a fund is 
correct. He must consider whether the recommendation was suitable, and having 
done so, hes satisfied that it was. 
Hes satisfied the investment of £180 a month was affordable. Mr Z and his wifes 
combined disposable income was £1,396 a month and they had no financial 
commitments. Mr Z had cash deposits of £45,500. If he wanted, he couldve dropped 
his cash deposit to whatever amount he wanted. 
Given Mr Zs experience  he had a stocks and shares ISA and a PEP  he wouldnt 
have had any trouble understanding how the investment worked. 
The recommendation met Mr Zs objectives for capital growth, tax efficiency and 
accessibility to his funds. This wasnt like he was locking away a lump sum for a 
period. 
The funds fit with Mr Zs attitude to risk and objectives. Although the funds are largely 
equity based, the funds objective  capital growth  is in line with his own. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view. In response, it said:
We note your comments but unfortunately the funds recommended are not compatible for 
the recorded risk profile or someone with moderate investment experience and therefore in 
our opinion the advice was unsuitable. Investing virtually all the monies into equities is not in 
any way commensurate for someone who has specifically recorded a moderate risk profile.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions, for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im not persuaded 
that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr Z. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I 
recognise Mr Zs strength of feeling about this matter. The CMC has provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more 
likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant say that that the recommendation was 
unsuitable. 
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mr Z to arrive at the conclusion that he 
was a balanced risk investor, not a moderate risk investor as the CMC claims in its latest 
response. I note it was classed as three out of five, where one was cautious and five was 
speculative. 
I note the business says that this is reflected in its recommendation of the regular 
contribution ISA and his choice of funds, both of which match this profile. On the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, Im unable to disagree with this conclusion. 
Despite the funds being equity based, the business says that its investment management 
department confirmed that all the funds had exposure to cash, and apart from one fund were 
medium risk funds. In other words, the funds were risk rated as three out of five, except for 
one which was four out of five. On the face of it that doesnt appear to be high risk 
investments as the CMC claims.  
That notwithstanding, I should make clear that Im not specifically looking at whether Mr Z 
was a balanced risk investor, or whether the recommendations were medium risk. Im 
considering if the recommendations were generally suitable for him. Notwithstanding the 
points made by the CMC about the funds, I agree with the investigator that its not for us to 
risk rate the funds. In this instance the funds were classed as presenting a medium risk, Ive 
no reason, given the business explanation, to think this was incorrect. 
On balance, Im satisfied the recommendation met Mr Zs key objective for capital growth 
and tax efficiency. I note the business says Mr Zs ISAs and PEP were free of any personal 
liability to UK income tax and no liability to capital gains tax, which is what he wanted.   
I appreciate Mr Z wasnt an experienced investor, but he wasnt without investment 
experience, therefore hes likely to have known how the investment worked and the risk 
involved.  
Im not persuaded that Mr Z took more risk than was suitable for him. On balance, Im 
satisfied that he was made aware of the risk rating and was willing to take a greater risk  
with one of the funds  to balance out his overall portfolio. In the circumstances, Im unable 
to say that this was unsuitable. 
I think Mr Z did what he felt was right for him. I note it was recorded that Mr Z believed a 
spread of growth trusts is appropriate to give diversification. Im conscious that he still had 
£15,000 in cash and a home jointly owned with his wife  worth around £500,000 free of any 
mortgage, so was in good position to invest a monthly amount and overall take a medium 
risk. 
I note that Mr Z was initially incorrectly told that two of the funds out of the four funds were 
rated four out of five in the risk rating, but in actuality, it was only one fund that was rated 
four out of five. But notwithstanding the error, Mr Z was still prepared to take a greater risk 
with his funds.  
Im also mindful that Mr Z increased his monthly contribution into the ISA from £180 a month 
in mid-2005, to £500 a month in December 2005, and did so of his own volition. This doesnt 
suggest that Mr Z was unhappy with any risk rating either for himself or the funds. I note he also paid in a £1,000 lump sum in 2008 and then stopped making regular 
contributions altogether in March 2009. In 2012, Mr Z transferred his investment away from 
the business, but I dont think this was something that he or the business envisaged at the 
point of sale. Its likely that Mr Zs circumstances were different to what they were in 2005, 
and he did what he thought was best for him at the time.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr Z was given any guarantees about the level of 
return. And just because he didnt receive a better return doesnt mean the recommendation 
was unsuitable.   
I appreciate Mr Z will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman