DRN-2247530
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his mortgage account with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax). Mr M says:
he was unaware that £30,000 of his mortgage had been transferred onto an interest-only 
basis in 2006;
when he telephoned Halifax in February 2019 he was told that the mortgage was a 
capital repayment mortgage;
he is unhappy that the overpayments hes been making havent been allocated wholly to 
reducing the interest-only portion of the mortgage account.
To put matters right, Mr M would like Halifax to explain why there are sub-accounts which 
are on capital repayment but the main bulk of the mortgage is interest-only. Mr M also wants 
to know where the extra payments hes been making hes been making have gone as these 
dont appear to be reflected on his annual mortgage statement.
Mr M has been assisted in bringing his complaint by a friend, Mr A, but for ease of reference 
I will refer to Mr M throughout.
What happened
In 2003 Mr M took out a mortgage with Halifax, borrowing £55,000 on a capital repayment 
basis. On 19 January 2006 Mr M switched to a new mortgage product. This was done on a 
non-advised basis  in other words, Mr M chose the product himself without advice from 
Halifax. The product switch was confirmed in writing.
At this point the mortgage balance was £52,631. Of this, £30,000 was put onto an interest-
only basis, with the balance on capital and interest repayment. The mortgage was on a 
tracker rate of 1.3% above Bank of England base rate until 31 March 2009, and there after 
reverted to Halifaxs Standard variable Rate. The term of the mortgage was 25 years. From 
that point on, the mortgage was in three sub-accounts  the first two as capital and interest 
repayment and the third as interest-only. 
On 13 February 2019 Mr M telephoned Halifax to ask if his mortgage was capital repayment 
or interest-only. The adviser incorrectly told Mr M that the whole account was capital 
repayment. The same day Halifax tried to call Mr M back about a small amount of arrears on 
the account but was unable to contact him.
On 4 November 2019 Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about part of 
his mortgage being interest-only, when Halifax had told him in February 2019 that it was a 
capital repayment mortgage. Mr M also wondered where his overpayments had gone.
After we contacted Halifax it issued a final response explaining that the transfer of £30,000 
onto interest-only had happened in 2006 at Mr Ms request. Halifax accepted its adviser had 
made a mistake when saying that the account was capital repayment. This was because the 
first two sub-accounts on the screen were the capital repayment parts of the mortgage and 
the adviser hadnt seen that there was a third sub-account that was interest-only.
Halifax didnt consent to us looking at the transfer of £30,000 onto interest-only in 2006 as 
this was more than six years before the date (4 November 2019) when the complaint was 
first raised.
An investigator looked at the time limits and was satisfied that this part of the complaint was 
out of time. He didnt think there were any exceptional circumstances to explain the delay.
As far as the other complaint issues were concerned, the investigator noted that Halifax had 
made an error in telling Mr M in February 2019 that his mortgage was on a capital and 
interest repayment basis, but didnt think this over-rode all the statements hed been sent 
since 2006 which said that £30,000 of the mortgage was interest-only.
The investigator was also satisfied that payments had been applied across the sub-accounts 
in accordance with Halifaxs terms and conditions.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. On his behalf, Mr A has made the following 
points:
Mr M appreciates that annual statements were sent out, but when Halifax was regularly 
questioned on the telephone, Mr M was told on each occasion that the mortgage was on 
a capital repayment basis. This is why a complaint wasnt made sooner.
Mr A questions where the signed agreement is between Halifax and Mr M for the 
mortgage to be placed in part on an interest-only basis.
It is not clear where the payments have been allocated. The most recent statement 
shows money paid in £2,400, money out £1,412.45. Mr A says that the additional 
amount should have been allocated the interest-only part of the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In a separate decision, I have determined that Mr Ms complaint about switching part of his 
mortgage to interest-only in 2006 has been brought too late for us to consider. I will therefore 
make no further comment about that issue.
In relation to the parts of the complaint that are within our jurisdiction, my findings are as 
follows.
Incorrect information: Halifax has acknowledged that it gave Mr M incorrect information on 
13 February 2019 when the adviser didnt scroll down far enough to see that £30,000 of the 
mortgage was interest-only. This was simply human error. But Im not persuaded that this 
means Halifax has made a mistake in the way in which the account is administered, because 
it is clear from the product switch and annual statements that £30,000 was switched to 
interest-only in 2006. The mistake by the adviser doesnt supersede or override the terms of 
the mortgage contract. Halifax has apologised for the error, and I dont require the bank to 
do anything more, so I am not upholding this part of the complaint.
Overpayments: Mr M doesnt think Halifax is correctly applying overpayments to his 
account. The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt provide an auditing service and so Im 
not going to analyse each and every transaction and interest calculation. Ive looked at the annual statements  which are in the form prescribed by the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority  and these show payments made against payments due.
Looking at the latest statement for the period 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019, this 
shows an opening balance across all sub-accounts of £34,153.34 and a closing balance of 
£33,941.67, which means that the account balance has reduced by £211.67 across all the 
sub-accounts. Mr M was required to make payments totalling £1,448.33 over the period but 
made payments totalling £1,660  a difference of £211.67. In accordance with Halifaxs 
terms and conditions, the overpayments are allocated across all sub-accounts.
In the circumstances, Im unable to find Halifax has done anything wrong in the way its dealt 
with overpayments. Its always open to Mr M to have the account audited at his own 
expense by an actuary or accountant. If an independent audit of the account finds any errors 
that are to Mr Ms detriment, then Mr M can raise this with Halifax, or with us if hes unable to 
resolve the matter directly. If an independent audit finds that Halifax has mis-applied 
payments, we would expect Halifax to put this right and to reimburse Mr M for any 
reasonable cost of the audit. 
But after considering the account statements going back a number of years, there doesnt 
appear to me to be any error in the way payments have been applied. This means that I am 
not upholding this part of the complaint.
Final points: The mortgage has about ten years left to run, and at the end of term Mr M will 
need to repay however much of the £30,000 is still outstanding at that date, if it has not 
already been paid off through regular monthly overpayments (the balance of the interest-only 
sub-account was £29,440.37 on 30 September 2019). Mr M might find it helpful to speak to 
an independent financial adviser to discuss his options. There is still plenty of time for Mr M 
to put in place a plan to repay the £30,000 before the end date of the mortgage. 
I think Halifax should also think about what help it can give Mr M in relation to repaying the 
interest-only part of the mortgage, and whether a transfer onto a new product (such as a 
fixed rate at an initial lower rate of interest) might be possible. That way, Mr M could 
maintain his current payments but repay more of the capital balance across all sub-accounts 
each month if he is paying less in interest. Any switch to a new product would, of course, be 
subject to an early repayment charge during any period when a preferential rate applies, but 
at the end of the period, Mr M would be able to switch to another product, subject to meeting 
Halifaxs criteria. 
By todays standards, the amount owing on the mortgage is very modest (around £34,000) 
with little risk to Halifax given that (according to online data) the average price of properties 
in Mr Ms postcode is around £275,000. In the circumstances, I would expect Halifax to think 
proactively about helping Mr M  who, as Halifax is well aware, is coping with very difficult 
family circumstances.
I leave it to Mr M to contact Halifax if he would like to discuss a product switch. I would 
remind Halifax that if Mr M is not looking to borrow any more money, the affordability 
provisions set out in MCOB 11.6.3 are likely to apply to any request for a product switch, 
albeit there would also be considerations other than just affordability, as set out in Halifaxs 
internal policy guidelines.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman