DRN-2933572
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M have complained about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) 
handled their claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M contacted Fairmead when they found damage to their home following a 
storm. Fairmead accepted the claim and sent a surveyor to assess the damage. The 
surveyor visited and then drew up a scope of works to settle the claim. Shortly after the visit, 
Mr M and Mrs M contacted Fairmead to complain about the surveyor as they thought he was 
unprofessional. 
Fairmead appointed a surveyor from a different company, who then visited Mr M and Mrs 
Ms home and also drew up a scope of works.
Mr M and Mrs M complained to Fairmead. They said the amount offered by Fairmead to 
settle the claim wasnt enough to pay for the work to be carried out and didnt include all of 
the work. They also complained about how the claim had been handled, including the 
surveyors. When Fairmead replied, it didnt uphold the complaint. It said that, based on the 
information it currently held, it had offered an appropriate cash settlement that was in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.
So, Mr M and Mrs M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said the cash settlement was reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. He also said the scope of works dealt with all of the storm damage and that he hadnt 
identified any issues with the claim handling.
As Mr M and Mrs M did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 20 June 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold this complaint. I said:
As part of my decision I should note that I asked Fairmead a number of questions about this 
claim, but it only sent a partial response.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that there was a storm around the time 
of the damage. However, Ive also looked at weather reports for that period and am satisfied 
that there were storm conditions around that time. So, I think the answer to this question is 
yes.
So, Ive thought about whether the damage is consistent with what a storm typically causes. 
I think that a storm could cause tiles to come off a roof and as a result cause some internal 
damage to a property. So, I think the answer to this question is yes. However, looking at the 
cracks in the bedroom, I dont think a storm would typically cause this type of damage.
Ive also thought about whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. As 
part of this, Im aware that Mr M and Mrs M have expressed concerns about the surveys and 
said that they dont think Fairmeads assessment would put them back in the position that 
they were in before the loss. I asked Fairmead some questions, including about the level of 
damage, but only received a partial response. Based on the reports Ive seen, Im not 
satisfied that the extent of the damage has been properly established. For example, I asked 
Fairmead about the level of damage to the roof and how it had calculated the materials for 
this. It didnt provide a response.
Im also aware that Mr M and Mrs M have said that Fairmeads surveyors didnt include 
some items in their assessments that Mr M and Mrs M said were damaged by the storm, 
such as damage to the kitchen units and the kitchen electrics. Mr M and Mrs M havent 
provided any expert evidence to show this damage was the direct result of the storm. 
However, given the evidence Ive seen from both parties and that Fairmead hasnt 
responded to questions about how it assessed the damage, Im not currently satisfied that 
Fairmead is able to demonstrate that it carried out an appropriate assessment and settled 
the claim in a fair and reasonable way. 
As a result, I think there is a need for an independent surveyor to review the claim to ensure 
that the extent of the damage was appropriately assessed and that Mr M and Mrs M are 
restored to the position they were in before the claim. So, I currently intend to require 
Fairmead to provide Mr M and Mrs M with the details of three independent surveyors so that 
Mr M and Mrs M can choose one of them. Fairmead will then be required to pay for the 
surveyor, but they will be jointly appointed. Both parties should provide evidence to the 
surveyor for consideration. The surveyor can then inspect the damage, including where 
works have already been carried out, and report on what should be included as part of the 
claim. Both parties should be bound by the independent surveyors findings. Fairmead 
should also ensure that any damage is included in the scope of works and the claim should 
then be settled in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive also looked at how Fairmead handled the claim overall. Mr M and Mrs M were 
concerned about the first surveyor that visited their home, so Fairmead sent a second 
surveyor. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. But, even after the second 
surveyors visit, I still dont think the extent of the damage was clearly identified to ensure 
that the claim was fairly settled. Mr M and Mrs M also seem to have had to follow up with 
Fairmead on several occasions when phone calls werent returned or they wanted an update 
on how the claim was progressing. There also seemed to be confusion about whether 
Fairmead was dealing with the claim directly or whether it had been delegated to one of the 
companies that visited Mr M and Mrs Ms home to inspect the damage. When the first 
surveyor visited, he also noted there was an issue with the carpet, but it took many months 
for Fairmead to get the damage assessed as part of the contents claim. So, I think there 
were parts of the claim that could have been dealt with better. As a result, I currently intend 
to require Fairmead to pay Mr M and Mrs M £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the way some parts of the claim were handled.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 21 July 2021.Mr M and Mrs M provided a range of comments, which I summarise below:
The damage was caused by two storms in quick succession.
The cracks in the bedroom were due to the main joists being moved by these two 
storms.
Fairmead didnt reply, or only partly replied, to them throughout their claim.
One survey carried out by Fairmead lasted 15 minutes. The second survey took even 
less time. They didnt think a proper survey could be carried out in these timescales.
If the second surveyors report had a signature on it, this was fraud as they werent 
asked to sign it.
They had to have the whole roof replaced and the plaster removed from the walls. This 
couldnt have been one without the electrics being affected.
The electrics were also damaged as a direct result of the storm damage.
The damage to the kitchen was a direct result of the storm and they were left without a 
fully functional kitchen.
They didnt trust Fairmead or any surveyor that it uses.
They described the level of hurt and distress Fairmeads handling of the claim had 
caused them.
They had to spend significant amounts of their savings to try and put their house back 
together.
Fairmead said it was unable to offer the services of three different surveyors as it didnt have 
that amount of choice. It said it could arrange for a particular company to attend. However, it 
questioned whether it would now be possible to obtain a full understanding of the damage to 
the property given the amount of time that had passed since the storm. It agreed to pay the 
£300 compensation if Mr M and Mrs M accepted.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons previously given. 
As part of this, Ive carefully considered all of the comments received. 
Mr M and Mrs M have explained their concerns about the claim and the impact on them. Mr 
M and Mrs M may wish to highlight the points about the damage, such as the crack in the 
bedroom wall, the electrics and the kitchen, with the surveyor to ensure the surveyor has a 
full understanding of what they think happened and why. On the point about the signature on 
the report, the report Ive seen doesnt have a signature on it. I also appreciate the time Mr M 
and Mrs M took to explain the distress and upset caused to them by how the claim was dealt 
with.
Fairmead has said its unable to provide the details of three independent surveyors because 
it doesnt have that level of choice. Nonetheless, I remain of the view that this is a fair and 
reasonable resolution. To be clear, the three surveyors should not be ones that Fairmead 
has direct links with or be from the companies that previously visited Mr M and Mrs Ms 
home. Based on a brief internet search, the company Fairmead suggested seemed to share 
a name with a subsidiary of one of the companies that previously visited. There may, of 
course, be more than one company that uses that name and Im not suggesting that 
Fairmead was trying to be anything other than helpful by suggesting that company. But 
Fairmead should carry out some basic checks to confirm there isnt a direct link to itself or either of the companies that previously visited, including their associated companies, when it 
provides details of the independent surveyors.
Mr M and Mrs M should also be aware that when Fairmead provides them with the details of 
the three independent surveyors, it wont be able to comment on their skills or abilities 
because it will have no links to them. It will be for Mr M and Mrs M to check the details of 
each surveyor and decide which one they would like to undertake the review. Both Fairmead 
and Mr M and Mrs M should provide the selected surveyor with copies of previous reviews 
and other relevant details for consideration. The surveyor can then inspect the damage, 
including where works have already been carried out, and report on what should be included 
as part of the claim. Both parties should be bound by the independent surveyors findings. 
Fairmead should also ensure that any damage is included in the scope of works and the 
claim should then be settled in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Fairmead has said it might be difficult for the surveyor now to obtain a full understanding of 
the damage. I agree with this. However, in the circumstances, and with both parties 
providing the surveyor with the relevant information they each have, in my view this is the 
most appropriate way to bring the claim to a conclusion. 
  
Putting things right
Fairmead must offer Mr M and Mrs M the details of three independent surveyors. Fairmead 
must pay the costs of the surveyor selected by Mr M and Mrs M. Both parties will be bound 
by the independent surveyors findings. Fairmead must ensure that any damage that forms 
part of the claim is included in the scope of works and settle the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. Fairmead must also pay Mr M and Mrs M £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the handling of some aspects of their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Offer the details of three independent surveyors to Mr M and Mrs M so they can choose 
one and a further review can take place. Both parties will be bound by the independent 
surveyors findings. Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay the cost of the surveyor.
Ensure that any damage that forms part of the claim is included in the scope of works 
and settle the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay Mr M and Mrs M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of 
some aspects of their claim.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman