DRN-2397413
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs R say Barclays Bank UK PLC has been overcharging them on their mortgage. 
They dont think Barclays has been taking their overpayments into account when the interest 
has been calculated.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
I understand Mr F and Mrs R are concerned their overpayments are sitting in a separate 
account and arent being taken into account when the interest is calculated. I can reassure 
them thats not the case. The overpayments are in the mortgage account and are taken into 
account in the interest calculations.
Mr F and Mrs R have a daily interest mortgage so when they make an overpayment (as 
theyve been doing on an ad-hoc basis) their interest is immediately recalculated; thats the 
daily interest element. But their contractual monthly payment isnt recalculated at the same 
time. This is done to keep things easier, otherwise the contractual monthly payment could 
alter every month and that would just get confusing. The fact the contractual monthly 
repayment wasnt recalculated with each overpayment has absolutely no impact on the 
amount of interest being charged as theyre two different things.
Ive looked at the calculations, and the comments on both sides, and having done so I cant 
see any mistakes. Im satisfied the overpayments have been taken into account when the 
interest was calculated each day. An example:
For the 31 days of January 2017 Mr F and Mrs R were charged £784.36 interest. They then 
made an overpayment in March 2017, but other than that just met their normal interest-only 
monthly payments. But for the 31 days of May 2017 Mr F and Mrs R were charged the lower 
amount of £783.32 in interest. Nothing had changed in that time, other than the overpayment 
so this must have been taken into account otherwise Mr F and Mrs R wouldnt have been 
charged a pound less in interest for the same number of days.
This is also shown by the fact the overpayments made between 14 May 2013 and 
30 September 2019 add up to a total of £9,257.78, but in the period in question the balance 
reduced by over £1,000 more than that.
The interest-bearing balance (so that reflects all overpayments made, even if they are 
showing as a pre-payment rather than a part redemption) is looked at each year end which 
then leads to the contractual monthly payment for the forthcoming year being adjusted if it 
needs to be. From November 2016 Mr F and Mrs Rs monthly payments were set at £772.94 
for the year, but although the interest rate remained the same, their monthly payments from 
November 2017 reduced to £769.55 due to the overpayments theyd made (and thus the 
reduced interest charged).
From my review I cant see any errors in how Barclays has calculated Mr F and Mrs Rs 
mortgage. Im satisfied Barclays has taken all Mr F and Mrs Rs overpayments into account 
each day when it has calculated the interest due. Its not possible for us to carry out a 
detailed or forensic audit of an account history. Its open to Mr F and Mrs R to instruct a 
suitably qualified independent accountant to do that for them. That would have to be at their 
expense, though if an error were found to their financial detriment they could include any 
reasonable costs of finding it in any fresh complaint that followed. 
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our rules to comment on, or otherwise 
determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. Barclays has the right to 
amend its terms and conditions, so the fact the current terms arent the same as those that 
were in place when the mortgage was taken out isnt something I can comment on. Neither 
is Barclays rule that only overpayments over a certain amount will trigger an automatic part 
redemption (and therefore an immediate change in the monthly payment). However, I would 
reassure Mr F and Mrs R that the rule about the size of overpayments and how they are 
treated has absolutely no impact on the amount of interest that has been charged, that rule 
only affected whether the contractual monthly payment was immediately altered or not.
In its final response letter, Barclays offered £450 compensation for various customer service 
failings. I understand Mr F and Mrs R believe the offer was withdrawn by Barclays when they 
said they would be escalating their complaint to us. But thats not the case; as the final 
response letter says As advised, you can accept my offer of compensation and refer this 
matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service. All Mr F and Mrs R need to do  if they now 
want to accept that offer  is contact Barclays as per the information in that letter.
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr F and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman