DRN-2059476
The complaint
Mr B says Canada Square Operations Limited (CSO) mis-sold him term assurance cover.
What happened
Mr B bought the cover in 2005 while arranging a loan. The premium for the cover was added 
to the loan and attracted interest.
The cover would have paid a lump sum of £10,000 if Mr B died during its term.
Our adjudicator thought the cover had been mis-sold and recommended the complaint be 
upheld. CSO disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
CSO advised Mr B to buy the life cover. That meant it needed to look into whether the cover 
was right for him. I can see that CSO took some steps in doing so but I dont think it did 
enough. For example, it seems CSOs adviser asked Mr B about his existing levels of 
private cover. However, it seems the adviser overlooked the life cover Mr B likely held 
through his work.
I can see from a loan Mr B took out with CSO in 2004 that CSO had already been made 
aware he held life cover through his employer. I believe appropriate discussions in 2005  
when I gather he was still with the same employer  would also have revealed the existing 
cover he held. Had that happened, I believe more questions would have been asked about 
his need for additional life cover.
I recognise that it isnt uncommon for some people to want to take out separate cover in 
addition to their employment cover, depending on their circumstances. That said, I note Mr B 
was in his early 20s with no dependents and lived either at work or at his parents home. In 
his circumstances, and despite his apparent desire to be able to cover his funeral costs and 
so on, it seems the need for additional life cover was limited. And I cant see that there was a 
discussion about this with Mr B at the time.
Taking everything into account, I believe that Mr Bs lost out because of how CSO sold him 
the policy.  
Putting things right
Mr B borrowed extra to pay for the life cover, so his loan was bigger than it should have 
been. He paid more than he should have each month and it cost him more to repay the loan 
than it would have. So Mr B needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, CSO should:
Work out and pay Mr B the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would have paid without the life cover.  
Work out and pay Mr B the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and what it 
would have cost to pay off the loan without the life cover.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr B paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If CSO has already paid Mr B an amount for commission and profit share, CSO can take 
off what it paid him from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CSO to take off tax from this interest. CSO must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im upholding this complaint. I require Canada Square Operations 
Limited to put things right for Mr B as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman