DRN-3378323
The complaint
Mr G complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. has turned down a cancellation claim he made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G had an annual travel insurance policy. On 12 February 2020, he booked a holiday to a 
country Ill call T. He was due to travel between 7 and 9 March 2020.
However, Mr G said he began to suffer from cold/flu-like symptoms on 25 February 2020, 
which worsened. He also said that due to having a poor immune system, the risk of Covid-19 
at the relevant time posed too much of a risk. So he cancelled his trip on 27 February 2020.
A few days later, as Mr G said his symptoms had worsened, he called the NHS 111 service 
to request a Covid-19 test. This took place on 7 March 2020. Happily, Mr Gs test result was 
negative.
In July 2020, Mr G made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the costs associated with 
cancelling the trip. 
Mapfre initially turned down Mr Gs claim because it said thered been no Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advice against travel to T at the time Mr G 
cancelled his trip. Mr G went on to provide a medical certificate from his GP which said that 
hed been suffering from a respiratory tract infection and that itd become necessary for the 
trip to be cancelled on 7 March 2020. So Mapfre turned down the claim again. Thats 
because it said that as Mr G had cancelled the holiday a week before his illness started, he 
wouldnt have been able to travel regardless of his illness.
Mr G was unhappy with Mapfres decision and the way itd handled his claim. So he asked 
us to look into his complaint. He sent us an amended medical form which stated that Mr G 
had contacted NHS 111 on 7 March 2020 following a two-week history of feeling unwell 
since 25 February 2020.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think there was 
enough medical evidence to show that itd been medically necessary for Mr G to cancel his 
holiday when he did. And she thought Mr Gs claim form indicated that the main reason hed 
decided to cancel his trip was because he had concerns about Covid-19. However, at the 
point hed decided to cancel the holiday, thered been no advice against travel to T. So she 
thought itd been fair for Mapfre to turn down Mr Gs claim.
Mr G disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. The medical 
certificate stated that he suffered from generalised anxiety, which made it unrealistic to 
expect someone to travel to T at the height of an international pandemic. At the time Mr G 
had cancelled his trip, thered been national advice against people visiting GPs if they had 
Covid-19 symptoms. So itd been impossible for him to see his GP and his only choice had 
been to cancel the trip and arrange a home Covid-19 test. He couldnt have been expected 
to break medical or international travel guidelines. He said hed never indicated hed called 
NHS 111 anywhere near when the investigator had suggested he did. In fact, hed called 
NHS 111 as soon as he became unwell in February.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make it clear that in my 
decision, I wont be considering the amended medical certificate Mr G provided to us. Thats 
because theres no evidence to suggest that Mapfre has had the opportunity to consider this 
new information and assess whether or not it has any impact on its decision. Its open to Mr 
G to send this information to Mapfre should he wish to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Gs policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether Mapfre treated 
Mr G fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with Mapfre. The cancellation section of the policy sets out the specific, listed 
events Mapfre covers if a policyholders cancellation is necessary and unavoidable. This list 
includes a policyholders illness. In this case, Mr G has told us that he had to cancel his trip 
because hed become unwell on 25 February 2020. 
It's a general principle of insurance that its a policyholders responsibility to provide 
evidence to show they have a valid claim on their travel insurance policy. This means its for 
Mr G to demonstrate that it was medically necessary for him to cancel his trip. Mapfre has 
also included the following Claims Condition within its contract terms:
You or Your legal representatives must supply at Your own expense all information, 
evidence, details of household insurance and medical certificates as required by us.
In this case, Mr Gs claim form stated that hed cancelled his trip on 27 February 2020 
because in late February/early March 2020, the impact of Covid-19 had made the trip 
unviable. He said hed had a poor immune system and itd been too high-risk to travel. He 
told Mapfre that government advice had been not to travel to T due a boom in cases in the 
city he planned to travel to. Mr G also subsequently added: During late February 2020, I 
was also unwell and tested for Covid. However luckily my results were negative.
Mapfre initially assessed the claim based on the information Mr G gave it on the claim form. 
Based on that information, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mapfre to conclude that the 
main reason Mr G had cancelled his trip was because of concerns about Covid-19. At the 
point Mr G cancelled the trip, thered neither been any FCDO advice against travel to T nor 
any medical directive that those with poor immune systems should avoid travel to it. Neither 
had Covid-19 been declared as a pandemic. And Mr G hadnt provided it with any clinical 
evidence at this point to show it was medically necessary for him to cancel his trip. So while I 
can understand that given Mr Gs diagnosed anxiety, he may have been concerned about 
the potential risks of travel, I dont think it was unfair for Mapfre to decide at this point that Mr 
Gs claim wasnt covered.
Following the initial decline of Mr Gs claim, he provided a medical certificate from his GP, which was dated 31 July 2020  over five months after the trip was cancelled. The certificate 
stated that the cancellation was due to respiratory tract infection. It said the onset of Mr Gs 
symptoms was 7 March 2020. It also stated that the GP wouldve advised cancellation on 7 
March 2020 and that this was the exact date advice to cancel had been given. 
Mr G told Mapfre that the trip was cancelled on 27 February 2020  around 10 days before it 
seems the GP wouldve advised him to cancel the holiday. So the medical evidence 
available to Mapfre when it assessed the claim was that Mr Gs symptoms had begun 10 
days after hed already cancelled the trip. There was also no evidence to suggest that Mr G 
had sought medical advice prior to cancelling the trip. I dont think then that it was 
unreasonable for Mapfre to conclude that irrespective of a later diagnosed illness, Mr G 
wouldnt have been able to travel, because his trip had already been cancelled. 
Id add too that the medical certificate Mapfre assessed doesnt indicate that Mr G had been 
unwell or unfit to travel on 27 February 2020  the date he said he cancelled the holiday. 
This means that theres no clinical evidence to show that cancellation was medically 
necessary at the point Mr G decided against travelling.
I appreciate that Mr G says that in part, his anxiety caused the cancellation. While I note that 
the medical certificate says Mr G suffered from generalised anxiety disorder, the GP hasnt 
indicated that this condition was the direct cause of the cancellation or that this gave rise to 
an earlier need for medical cancellation. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Mapfre to 
consider that Mr G was most likely experiencing respiratory symptoms when he ultimately 
sought medical advice.
It's clear that Mr G feels strongly that he was following relevant medical advice at the time. 
Hes now told us that he contacted NHS 111 as soon as he became unwell in February 
2020. Mr G originally told us (on our complaint form) that he contacted NHS 111 on 5 March 
2020 to arrange a Covid-19 test. This was some days after hed cancelled the trip. So I dont 
think this is enough evidence to reasonably show that Mr G wasnt medically fit to travel at 
the time he cancelled. If, however, Mr G can provide evidence that he called NHS 111 when 
he first became unwell, that it advised him against travel or that he tried to call his GP sooner 
than he did, its open to him to send this evidence to Mapfre for it to assess.
Overall though, on the evidence before me, I find it was fair for Mapfre to conclude that Mr G 
hadnt shown it was medically necessary to cancel his trip on 27 February 2020. So it follows 
that I find it was fair for Mapfre to turn down his claim.
Mr G is also unhappy with the way Mapfre handled his claim. As Ive set out above, Mr G 
didnt go on to make a claim until July 2020, some months after he cancelled the trip. Based 
on the information Mr G set out in his claim form, it initially declined the claim. Mr G provided 
his medical certificate to Mapfre around three weeks later. Once Mapfre had all of the 
information it needed to assess Mr Gs claim, it declined it again on 20 October 2020.  While 
the overall claims process took broadly three months, which I appreciate is longer than Mr G 
wouldve liked, I also need to bear in mind the unprecedented impact Covid-19 had on travel 
insurers and how they operated their businesses. And in the round, I dont think the delays 
were so unreasonable or that its claims handling caused Mr G any additional trouble or 
upset that I consider warrants an award of compensation. So Im not telling Mapfre to take 
any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman