DRN-3955689
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) didnt correctly calculate the road fund license 
when setting up his car finance agreement. He says it shouldve known the amount that was 
due, and it shouldve incorporated it into his monthly payments.
What happened
Mr N entered into a hire agreement in September 2021 for a term of 36 months, and the car 
was delivered in January 2022. Mr N says that between signing the agreement and taking 
delivery of the car, Lex contacted him to explain that an additional amount would be debited 
to his account at the end of December. Mr N told us:
the conditions of his hire agreement explain that the cost of road tax for the duration 
of the lease is included in the agreement;
Lex wrote to him to explain that an additional amount was needed  just over £400  
and that this would be charged to his account at the end of December 2022;
he complained to Lex, but it initially told him that it hadnt levied the charge in full on 
the agreement, before changing its stance to say that the additional amount due was 
because of a government increase in road tax  so he has to pay it;
Lex wouldve known about the surcharge based on the cars list price, and the 
surcharge had first been announced in 2017;
Lex should honour the terms of the contract that he signed, and it should 
compensate him for the stress and financial difficulty it caused him when it invoiced 
him for a large amount at short notice.
Lex rejected this complaint. It said that it had to invoice Mr N for the difference in price 
between what it had originally quoted Mr N - £155  and the actual charge that had been 
presented to it - £520.
Lex said when it first dealt with Mr N, the cars list price was under £40,000 and it applied the 
correct road fund license fee to Mr Ns hire agreement. But it said when it came to register 
the vehicle, it was told that the cars tax position in respect of list price was deemed to be 
£40,000 or over, resulting in a higher charge when it applied for the next road fund license.
Lex told us that Mr Ns hire agreement states that in the event of changes to the cars tax 
position, it will charge the hirer for any increase, and it will refund the hirer for any decrease. 
And it said it was required to charge VAT on this amount.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the hire agreement, signed by Mr N, says that the price includes the tax 
applicable at the time of sale, but it goes on to note that tax can change and that the 
consumer must pay for any increase; the contract is clear that in the event that insufficient 
tax or duty is paid, Mr N is responsible for the difference.
Mr N disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says he would not have 
proceeded with the hire agreement if he had known hed be liable for additional charges. 
And he says that Lex wouldve known about the surcharge when it contracted with him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence and testimony from both Mr N and LEX afresh, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
Mr N was supplied with a vehicle under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
The hire agreement says We will pay the cost of the annual vehicle excise duty required by 
law for the Vehicle. The estimated cost of this duty for each year of the minimum period is 
included in your rentals. If (i) the duty for the Vehicle increases above what it is at the hiring 
start date, or (ii) the actual duty for the Vehicle is greater than the amount of duty estimated 
by us as the time the Vehicle was ordered by you from us, or (iii) any other tax is imposed 
that results in the duty being more than it due at the hiring start date, you must reimburse us 
the difference on demand
Mr N signed this hire agreement in September 2021, so Im satisfied that its fair for Lex to 
pass on any increases in tax or excise duty or road fund license to him.
Ive considered carefully Mr Ns position that Lex wouldve known about the tax regime at the 
point it was announced some years earlier, and that it shouldve taken this into consideration 
when it set up Mr Ns credit agreement.
Although I have some sympathy with Mr N  it will have come as a shock to learn so soon 
after signing the hire agreement that an additional amount was owed  I dont think Lex 
acted unfairly here. I say this because the quotation and finance agreement could only be 
based on the known facts at that time. And although Lex wouldve known about potential 
surcharges, it wasnt until after it registered the vehicle and applied for the next road fund 
license that it was notified that the higher charge was applicable in this particular case. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that, based on the terms and conditions Ive 
already highlighted, it was fair for Lex to pass on this charge to Mr N.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Andrew MacnamaraOmbudsman