DRN-1545024
 
complaint
Mr D says PDL Finance Limited, trading at the time as Mr Lender, irresponsibly lent to him. 
background 
This complaint is about a payday loan Mr D took with Mr Lender. The loan was taken out in 
July 2012 for a sum of £250. This loan was deferred on five occasions. A copy of Mr Ds 
borrowing history is set out in the table below: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Deferrals
1 31/07/2012 03/05/2019 1 £250 5
Mr D says during this period he was in financial difficulty and could not afford this loan. So, 
he thinks this loan shouldnt have been given to him. Our adjudicator didn't think it was 
wrong for Mr Lender to provide this loan but said that Mr Lender shouldn't allowed the fourth 
or fifth deferral on it. Mr Lender disagreed with this view. As no agreement has been reached 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Mr Lender needed 
to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that 
it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. I think that it is important for me to start by 
saying that Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his 
loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. Ive decided to agree with our 
adjudicator and uphold this matter from when Mr Lender deferred Mr Ds repayment for the 
fourth time on this loan. I will explain why. 
Firstly, I cant say it was wrong for Mr Lender to give Mr D this loan. From the checks it 
carried out and from the information Mr D gave to Mr Lender, I dont think there was anything 
to suggest that this loan would be unaffordable for Mr D or which might have alerted it to the 
fact he was having problems managing his money. But the loan was not repaid according to 
the terms of the original agreement. 
Mr Lender deferred Mr Ds repayments a total of five times on 24 August 2012, 27 
September 2012, 26 October 2012, 27 November 2012 and 27 December 2012. In my view 
it should have been clear to Mr Lender by the time of the fourth roll over that its likely Mr D 
was having problems managing his money. At the time, I don't think Mr Lender treated Mr D 
fairly by allowing the loan to rollover for so long. It had a duty to treat him positively and 
sympathetically and I think Mr D was showing signs of being in financial difficulty. Mr Lender 
ought to have been on notice because Mr D wasn't able to reduce the capital sum he had 
borrowed. Instead, he was paying £75 per calendar month to service the debt and the fact 
he couldn't make any headway into the capital is a sign, in my view, that he was having 
difficulties. 
I dont think prolonging the repayment of Mr Ds loan for so long was a fair way to treat him. 
Mr Lender should have come to an arrangement to repay the outstanding loan balance 
rather than allow Mr D to continually rollover his loan. 
Mr Lender has responded by providing a copy of another final decision which it says shows 
that just because Mr D had five rollovers our decisions are not consistent. But this does not 
make a difference to my decision. I think at the time of the fourth rollover to Mr D in this 
case, Mr Lender was more likely aware and had been put on notice about the change in the 
guidelines about the amount of rollover loans it could give. As Mr Lender recognised each 
matter is dealt with on its own merits and in this case, Im satisfied for the reasons set out 
that it should not have made the fourth and fifth rollover on Mr Ds loan. 
putting things right
Mr Lender shouldn't have made the fourth and fifth deferral on Mr Ds loan. So, Mr Lender 
must: 
A. Refund the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, fees and charges 
connected with the fourth and fifth rollovers on his loan. B. Calculate 8% simple interest  on the individual payments made by Mr D which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. Pay Mr D the total of A plus B. 
D. Remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to 
the fourth and fifth deferrals on his loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ds complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should pay Mr D compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman