DRN-2184765
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about a claim that was declined on his Amtrust legal expenses insurance 
policy for an appeal against a misconduct decision reached against him in disciplinary 
proceedings as well a failure by Amtrust to respond to his claim.
All references to Amtrust in this decision include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr H initially made a claim on his Amtrust legal expenses insurance policy to cover his legal 
costs in representing him at disciplinay proceedings. The result of those proceedings were 
that Mr H was dismissed. 
Following this, Mr H submitted a new claim to Amtrust to cover his costs in appealing the 
decision against him. Amtrust sent an acknowledgement email saying they would respond to 
him within five working days, but nothing further happened beyond that. Mr H says that as a 
result, he had no option but to represent himself at the appeal, at which he was also 
unssuccesful. He feels he has suffered considerable stress and inconvenience as a result of 
Amtrusts actions and wants to be compensated for this.
Amtrust agreed they shouldve replied to Mr H in response to his claim form. As a result they 
offered him £25 in recognition of this error. But they dont think Mr H was prejudiced in any 
way. Amtrust say that by the time Mr H wanted to appeal the decision against him, his 
indemnity limit had been exhausted so there was no funding left to cover an appeal and Mr 
H knew this. They also say Mr H was already in receipt of an assessment from the solicitors 
who acted for him in the misconduct proceedings confirming he had no reasonable 
prospects of success of appeal. As such he was aware that Amtrust wouldnt have funded 
an appeal, even if there had been more remaining on his indemnity limit. Finally, Amtrust say 
they liaised with Mr Hs solicitors on these issues directly.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Mr H 
doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy terms. They say, the maximum payable for an insured 
incident is £10,000 in relation to a Disciplinary Hearing. Insured incident is defined as The 
incident or the first of a series of incidents which may lead to a claim under this insurance. 
Only one Insured Incident shall be deemed to have arisen from all causes of action, 
incidents or events that are related by cause or time .
Mr H doesnt believe the appeal to his dismissal, which was dealt with as a disciplinary 
hearing, should be treated under one limit of indemnity. He doesnt think this amounts to a 
connected incident. Rather he says the claim is new and should be treated as a new 
incident. I dont agree. The policy terms are clear about an Insured Incident, as defined, 
being deemed to have arisen from all causes of action, incidents or events that are related 
by cause or time. An appeal to an earlier decision, is clearly linked to the originating incident 
that gave rise to it, whether or not the reasons for appeal were different to those originally 
contended within the disciplinary proceedings. So I think that the limit of indemnity applicable 
to the claim is £10,000 for both the disciplinary proceedings and the appeal. 
I understand that the limit of indemnity was exhausted during the course of the disciplinary 
proceedings. Because of this, I agree with Amtrust that there was nothing left in the pot to 
fund the appeal, even if it fulfilled the remaining policy terms on merits. From what Ive seen, 
the advice of the firm of solicitors representing him was that the appeal would fail. This was 
echoed by the barrister involved in the case too. I know Mr H doesnt agree with this and 
says that his medical diagnosis which came to light after his dismissal, might have changed 
the merits of his claim, but I dont think this makes any difference. Even if Mr Hs appeal did 
have reasonable prospects of succeeding, as required by the policy, there was simply 
nothing left of his indemnity limit to fund the appeal.
Ive also thought about what Mr H has said about Amtrust not responding to his claim form in 
relation to his request for funding to support his appeal. And I agree this was not good 
customer service. But Amtrust had already confirmed the position regarding indemnity to Mr 
Hs solicitor so Mr H wouldve been aware no further funding was available at this point. 
Because of this I dont think Amtrust did anything to cause Mr H any detriment by failing to 
respond to his claim form following their automatic reply, which said theyd be in touch in five 
working days. As a consequence I think Amtrusts offer of £25 to compensate Mr H for this is 
adequate. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Amtrust Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman