DRN-4176869
The complaint
Miss M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank lent 
irresponsibly when it approved a loan for £3,500 in August 2019. 
What happened
In May 2018 Miss M was approved for a loan with Ulster Bank of £1,500 over a 12 month 
period. In Miss Ms application she said she was employed and earning around £1,200 a 
month. Ulster Bank used living costs of £432 and loan repayments of £28 a month and 
carried out a credit search and the loan was approved. The loan was repaid in May 2019. 
In October 2018 Miss M applied for a second loan, to run at the same time as the first, this 
time for £2,000 over a 41 month term. Again, Ulster Bank says it looked at Miss Ms income 
and outgoings, carried out a credit search and approved the loan in line with its lending 
criteria. 
A third loan was approved in December 2018, this time for £1,500 over 48 months. Ulster 
Bank says it carried out a credit check, considered Miss Ms income and outgoings 
(including her existing credit) and approved the loan on the basis it appeared affordable. 
In July 2019 Miss M applied for a loan of £3,500 over 60 months. The loan funds were used 
to refinance the loan Miss M had taken out in December 2018. Ulster Bank says it looked at 
Miss Ms credit file, assessed her income and outgoings and that the application was 
approved. Again, Ulster Bank says its lending criteria was applied to Miss Ms application 
and that loan repayments appeared affordable based on the information it knew about her. 
A month later, in August 2019, Miss M applied for another loan of £3,500. The term was 60 
months and the application was approved by Ulster Bank. 
Towards the end of 2019 Miss M contacted Ulster Bank to explain she was changing jobs 
and would be without pay in December 2019. Payments were later missed at the beginning 
of 2020 and Miss H entered into a debt management plan a short time later. That led to the 
loans with Ulster Bank being recorded as in default. 
Last year, Miss M complained that Ulster Bank had lent irresponsibly when it approved the 
new loan in August 2019. Ulster Bank looked into Miss Ms complaint and issued a final 
response but didnt agree it had acted unfairly or made a mistake when it approved the loans 
in her name. 
Miss M referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and it was passed to an 
investigator. The investigator upheld Miss Ms complaint and said the frequency of loan 
applications shouldve caused Ulster Bank to carry out better checks before approving the 
loan in August 2019. The investigator upheld Miss Ms complaint and said if Ulster Bank had 
looked at Miss Ms bank statements before approving the loan it wouldve seen she was 
borrowing from various sources at an unsustainable level. The investigator asked Ulster 
Bank to refund all interest and charges applied to Miss Ms loan from inception onwards. 
Ulster Bank accepted the investigators recommendations but Miss M asked to appeal. Miss 
M said she feels the final loan she took out with Ulster Bank impacted her ability to make 
repayments across all her loans with other creditors. Miss M says that as a result of Ulster 
Banks loan she had to enter a debt management plan which she is still repaying. As Miss M 
asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
Ive looked at all Miss Ms loan applications and bank statements going back some years to 
get a picture of her circumstances. I understand Miss Ms complaint focuses on the August 
2019 loan, but Ive factored in that this was the fifth loan shed applied for with Ulster Bank in 
a period of around fifteen months. Ulster Bank has told us Miss Ms previous loans were all 
well handled with repayments being made on time. But I agree with the investigator that the 
circumstances of Miss Ms final application, in August 2019, shouldve caused Ulster Bank to 
consider carrying out more comprehensive checks  like verifying her income or looking at 
bank statements. 
Ulster Bank has provided bank statements covering the entire lending relationship. I can see 
that Miss Ms income was in line with the figures provided in her application. And whilst I can 
see an increasing number of outgoings in respect of other credit Miss M obtained while she 
was also borrowing from Ulster Bank, I think its fair to note the loans appeared affordable in 
terms of the disposable income available. But I think the fact Miss M applied for a second 
loan of £3,500 within a month of successfully obtaining another loan of the same amount 
shouldve indicated to Ulster Bank that she mayve become dependent on credit to make 
ends meet. 
As Ive said above, Ulster Bank had access to Miss Ms bank statements so couldve used 
that option to look at her circumstances. Had it done so, I think it wouldve seen an increased 
level of borrowing and monthly repayments being made. And I think that, in addition to the 
level of borrowing Miss M already had with Ulster Bank, wouldve led it to decline further 
lending. I agree with the investigator that Ulster Bank lent irresponsibly when it approved 
Miss Ms loan in August 2019. Our investigator asked Ulster Bank to refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the 
loan it approved in August 2019 and it agreed. I understand Miss M feels the final loan was 
the key reason repayments werent made to other debts she had. But I think its fair to note 
Miss M contacted Ulster Bank at the end of 2019 to say she wouldnt be able to make the 
next repayment due to a change in her job. And whilst I agree Ulster Bank did lend 
irresponsibly, other creditors were responsible for ensuring repayments were affordable by 
completing lending assessments. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but Im satisfied the settlement set out by the investigator in 
their findings is a fair and reasonable way to resolve her complaint and in line with our 
approach. As Im satisfied Ulster Bank has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not increasing the award further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct National Westminster Bank Plc 
trading as Ulster Bank to settle as follows: 
Add up the total amount of money Miss M received as a result of having been given the loan 
in August 2019. The repayments made should be deducted from this amount.
a) If this results in Miss M having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b)  If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Ulster Bank should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss M if it hasnt done so already.
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ms credit file regarding this loan once 
any outstanding balance has been settled.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Ulster Bank to take off tax from this interest. Ulster Bank 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman