DRN-2695210
The complaint
Mr M complains that Western Circle Ltd  trading as Cashfloat and paydayloansnet (PDNET) 
lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr M says that he was very badly in debt at the time he applied for the two loans with 
Western Circle. Using information from Western Circles records Ive created a brief loan 
table. 
Loan Approved Repaid Amount Instalments Scheduled repayments 
(rounded)
1 08/12/2018 20/12/2018 £400 3 £209
2 20/12/2018 09/09/2020 £600 3 £292
In Mr Ms applications he gave details of his employers, his four weekly salary of £2,700, that 
he was living with his parents, he had no partner and no dependents. He gave relatively low 
living costs which fitted that picture: rent of £100 a monthly, bills of £50, travel expenses of 
£50 and food/ groceries of £50. He also declared that his commitment to loan repayments 
was £1,100 a month. 
Western Circle said that he had sufficient disposable income to make the repayments on 
his loans from Western Circle, as well as pay his essential living costs and repayments on 
previous outstanding credit.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think that Western Circle needed 
to do anything to put things right. Mr M disagreed and explained that it ought to have looked 
at his bank statements, interviewed him more thoroughly and taken account of his gambling 
addiction. He also said that the proximity of the two loans ought to have  shown that he was 
struggling to money manage and clearly was in some financial trouble.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Western Circle had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the 
amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. 
Its checks could have taken into account a number of different things, such as how much 
was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income and expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Western Circle should have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
the borrower coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M, but that does not apply here as 
two loans approved does not lead me to think that there was a pattern of lending.
Western Circle was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being the ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. I have set out in the what happened 
section of this decision some of the details of the loan applications. 
Mr M has explained  I believe that my active loans and total outgoing costs would have 
clearly shown to a responsible lender that there was a bigger issue behind the scenes.
For Loan 1, as a new customer and for a relatively modest sum of £400 over a relatively 
short period (3 months) then Western Circle need not have done more. I realise that Mr M 
would have preferred for Western Circle to scrutinise his bank statements, but for the first 
loan and as a new customer carrying out a full financial review of his finances was not 
required. And Mr M had been up-front about his loan repayments so it was aware of them. 
Western Circle was entitled to rely on the information he gave it at those early stages of the 
lending relationship.
Loan 1 was repaid early and I do not think that any indication of inability to manage money 
was likely to have been gleaned from that action. So, Mr Ms second loan application for a 
slightly larger sum was not likely to have caused any concern or prompted Western Circle to 
have done more than it did. The term was scheduled to be three months which is not lengthy 
and the figures Mr M gave them indicated he could afford it. Applying the FCA regulations and considering all the circumstances of these applications, 
including the information Mr M gave to Western Circle, then it would have been 
disproportionate to have expected it to have done more. I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman