DRN-4080604
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Insure Group Limited (Insure Group) mis-sold her home 
emergency policy during policy renewal.
What happened
Ms M took out home emergency insurance with Insure Group in 2021 and renewed the 
policy in early February 2022. She later took out alternative cover with another insurer so 
that there was duplicate cover for a time, until she cancelled her policy with Insure Group in 
autumn 2022. In the meantime, Ms M experienced problems with work carried out under the 
Insure Group policy during January, February and March 2022.
Ms M thought that Insure Group had mis-sold the policy on renewal and that when shed 
telephoned, it advised that she couldn't cancel the policy when she had an ongoing 
complaint. She carried on paying her premiums on this basis. Ms M now wanted her 
premiums refunded from February 2022 to November 2022 and also wanted her cancellation 
fee refunded. Insure Group didnt think it had acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining to 
do so. Ms M therefore referred her complaint to this service.
The relevant investigator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. She didnt consider that there was 
evidence that Insure Group had mis-sold the policy on renewal. She said that even if Ms Ms 
call was from a withheld number, it was likely that there would have been notes or some 
record of a call, as there had been for other calls about the policy.
Ms M remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether Insure Group mis-sold a home insurance 
policy to Ms M on renewal or acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner. I dont consider 
that it did, and Ill explain why. In deciding this matter, Ive also considered the parties 
submissions which can be summarised as follows.
Ms M said that shed called in January 2022 to say that she didnt want to renew the policy 
as she thought it was too expensive. She then called Insure Group again and told them I 
would not use their services again and had asked: to complain do I need to renew the 
policy and was told I needed an active policy for a complaint to be looked into however the 
computer systems were down. Ms M said she rang back again later to discuss the best 
price. 
Ms M said she spoke to different people on each occasion, but in summary, was adamant 
that shed been told she needed an active policy in order to complain and considered this to 
be a mis-sale. In addition, she said shed taken out identical cover with a competitor of 
Insure Group in March 2022. She thought that this logically proves I was told I had to keep a 
live policy with them to complain because why else would I pay double for exactly the same 
service. She said; why would I pay over a couple of hundreds of pounds for something I 
was not going to use. She added that by its own admission, Insure Group was unable to 
trace the call due it having been made on a withheld telephone number, and Insure Group 
didnt have the technology and therefore ability to trace calls from a withheld number and 
also as its computer system had been down.
Ms M had paid premiums of nearly £30.50 per month from February 2022 up until November 
2022 as well as a £35 cancellation fee. Ms M said she only cancelled the policy once this 
services investigator told her that she didnt have to have an active policy in order to pursue 
her complaint. Ms M said that she struggled to pay bills, so having to pay for policies wasnt 
easy. In July 2022 Ms M obtained a new bank account number due to an issue with her 
original account. She said she didnt cancel her direct debit to Insure Group at that time, as 
she still believed she had to have an active policy in order to pursue her complaint.
Turning to Insure Groups comments about the matter, it said that in December 2021 there 
was a discussion through the online chat facility where the customer advised she had lost 
the policy documents and requested these to be resent. Later that same day, Ms M phoned 
stating that she wished to make a claim for her boiler. A telephone conversation about 
renewal then took place at the end of January 2022. It confirmed that the renewal was 
currently in a cancelled state, and that Ms M had asked for the best quote available, which 
the agent provided. At this point, it said that Ms M asked if shed be able to cancel at any 
time during the policy. 
The agent had explained there was a right to cancel with no financial penalty within the 14-
day cooling off period, but that there would otherwise be an administration fee of £35. Ms M 
then decided to reinstate her policy. Insure Group said it was unable to find any evidence 
that Ms M was told that she was required to have an active policy in order to pursue a 
complaint.
Ive carefully considered the matter. I recognise that it was entirely feasible that Ms M had 
made a call that wasnt recorded when Insure Groups computer systems were down. Ive 
listened however to the renewal telephone call and there is no hint or reference to a previous 
call in which a representative may have said that Ms M would need to renew her policy to 
pursue a complaint. Indeed, the telephone recording shows that Ms had cancelled the policy 
due to its cost. Once given the figures again, Ms M decided of her own volition that she did 
wish to renew her policy with Insure Group after all. The telephone call indicated that her 
concern around renewal was due to cost rather than about keeping a policy in place in order 
to pursue a complaint.
Ms M did ask about being able to cancel the policy and the agent explained the cancellation 
policy, to include the cooling off period and the subsequent period. Ms M accepted the 
quote on this basis. Ms M didnt cancel the policy once work had been completed. There is 
then no evidence of further communication with Insure Group about the policy until July 
2022. At this point, the issue of cancellation was again raised because a late payment 
charge was raised by the finance provider, however Ms M didnt take the opportunity to 
proceed with cancellation at this point.
In all the circumstances, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint against Insure Group. I accept that 
Ms M may have been under the impression that she should continue to pay premiums in 
order for works to be completed or in order to pursue her complaint about the works. I also 
accept that this impression may have arisen in a discussion with someone, however I cant 
say that any such impression had been given by Insure Group itself or its representative. 
Unfortunately for Ms M, the available telephone recording after the event doesnt support to her case. Ms M has clearly and eloquently expressed her views throughout and whilst I have 
every sympathy for her difficult personal circumstances, I dont uphold her complaint on this 
occasion. On the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that Ms M had been capable of and in 
a position to cancel the policy at any time. In addition, I cant say that it was unfair that Insure 
Group charged Ms M a cancellation fee when she eventually cancelled her policy, as this 
was clearly explained on renewal. 
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment for Ms M, however it is hoped that this 
decision goes some way to assist in drawing a line under the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint and I dont require Insure 
Group Limited to do any more in response to her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman