DRN-4431386
The complaint
Mr D complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has turned down 
an incapacity claim Mr D made on a group income protection insurance policy.
Mr Ds represented by Mr G.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So I havent set it out in 
detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key events.
Mr D is insured under his employers group income protection policy. The policy provides 
cover in the event that Mr D is unable to work in his own or any suited occupation, as a 
result of illness or injury. The deferred period is 26 weeks.
In December 2022, Mr D was signed-off work with anxiety and depression. And he 
subsequently suffered a fractured ankle. In March 2023, his employer made an incapacity 
claim on his behalf.
L&G looked into Mr Ds claim to determine whether it felt hed shown he met the policy 
definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period. One of L&Gs clinical vocational 
specialists (VCS) carried out a telephone interview with Mr D. The VCS concluded that Mr D 
was fit to undertake a suited sedentary role. And they felt Mr Ds absences were linked to 
stress triggers. 
On that basis, L&G didnt think there was enough medical evidence to show that Mr D was 
clinically limited or functionally restricted from performing his own or any suited occupation. 
So it didnt think Mr D had met the policy definition of incapacity and it turned down his claim.
Mr D was unhappy with L&Gs decision and Mr G asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds  complaint should be upheld. Briefly, he 
considered the available evidence. And he felt it had been fair for L&G to conclude 
that Mr D hadnt shown he met the policy definition of incapacity during the deferred period. 
Therefore, he thought it had been reasonable for L&G to turn down Mr Ds claim.
Mr G disagreed on Mr Ds behalf and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr D, I dont think it was unfair for L&G to 
turn down his claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr D that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint  
and his submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and sent. Im very 
sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr D needing to make a claim and I dont 
doubt what a worrying and upsetting time this has been for him.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And  
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive considered, amongst other things,  the 
terms of this policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether L&G handled Mr 
Ds claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mr Ds 
employers contract with L&G. Mr Ds employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity 
benefit, given hed been signed-off work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for 
L&G to consider whether Mr Ds claim met its definition of incapacity throughout the 26-week 
deferred period. Ive turned then to look at L&Gs suited occupation definition of incapacity. 
This says:
Suited occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury so that 
he is unable to undertake all occupations which we consider appropriate to his experience, 
training or education.
This means that in order for L&G to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that its a 
policyholders illness or injury which results in them being unable to undertake all 
occupations which it considers appropriate to their experience, training or education. So in 
Mr Ds case, L&G needs to be satisfied that it was an illness which prevented him from 
undertaking his own or a suited occupation throughout the entire 26-week deferred period 
(and afterwards).
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim  
on their policy. This means it was Mr Ds responsibility to provide L&G with enough  
evidence to demonstrate that an illness had led to him being incapacitated in line with the  
policy terms.
L&G assessed the evidence Mr D provided in support of his claim and concluded that it  
didnt indicate he had a functionally impairing mental health condition or that he met the 
relevant policy definition of incapacity. So Ive next looked at the available medical and other 
evidence to assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for L&G to draw.
When Mr Ds employer first made a claim on his behalf, a member statement and 
questionnaire was submitted to L&G. Ive looked closely at the questionnaire, to understand 
what Mr D understood to be the cause of his illness. He stated that hed first experienced 
symptoms of the condition in November 2021 and he stated that the following symptoms 
were stopping him from working:
Anxiety and depression endured symptoms including chronic sleep problems, low mood, 
panicy [sic] state, always feeling tired but unable to sleep, issues concentrating.
Mr D added that hed previously suffered from symptoms of the condition, stating:
Issues first started to occur after a work related event where the first time I started to receive 
treatment for anxiety and depression being in November 2021, the anxiety and depression 
has gone up and down levels over this time until my most recent absence where my 
symptoms have become much worse.
Mr D had undergone self-CBT and he was prescribed anti-depressant medication. Hed 
been signed-off work by a mental health nurse, whod stated that he was unfit for work due to anxiety and depression.
Subsequently, Mr D underwent a telephone interview with L&Gs VCS. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for L&G to ask a VCS to try and gain a wider understanding of how Mr Ds 
diagnosis and symptoms would affect his ability to work and whether they restricted his 
functional impairment. Ive set out what I think are the VCS key findings below:
The member explained that his anxiety started around November 2021 due to an issue at 
work.
He has had several short stints of work due to his mental health since then. These were 
triggered by both work and life stressors at the time Two life stressors impacted on the 
members [sic] mental health. Prior to these events he reports he was struggling to get by at 
work due to his mental health. He was able to work but he reports he was struggling in 
general. The life stressors just pushed him too far and he felt he could not keep going to 
work due to his mental health
Based on the members reporting at assessment, it is unclear what would prevent the 
member from undertaking a suited role. The member reports a varied and unspecific typical 
day which is not indicative of significant functional restriction. Whilst the member reports a 
history of anxiety stemming from a work- related incident, he explained that he was coping at 
work prior to the recent stressful events that occurred in his personal life in December 2022. 
The member reports multiple absences from work due to different stressors at each point in 
time
It is of note that since being absent from work, the members activities of daily living do not 
appear significantly impacted or restricted.
Given the circumstances and reported triggers, I do not think there will be a medical solution 
to the situation. Hence it follows that the priority now should be for management and the 
member to address any issues at work and determine whether it is possible to reach an 
agreement regarding the circumstances in which he would feel able to return to work
It is my opinion that the member is fit to undertake a suited sedentary role and that these 
absences are related to stress triggers.
L&G assessed the available medical and other evidence. And it concluded that the evidence 
didnt indicate that Mr D was suffering from a mental illness which prevented him from 
carrying out his own or any suited occupation. Instead, it felt that Mr D was likely suffering 
with a reaction to personal stressors and that there wasnt evidence to suggest that he was 
suffering with a substantial or pervasive mental health condition of a severity which affected 
his day-to-day ability to function.
Following L&Gs initial decision to decline Mr Ds claim, he provided a letter from his mental 
health nurse, dated May 2023. This letter stated:
Mr D is currently being treated for anxiety and depression and at present is prescribed (anti-
depressant) once daily.
Mr D has requested a letter from myself to confirm this as he reports he was recently 
assessed by legal and general [sic] who felt it was stress rather than depression and 
anxiety.
However, despite this letter and Mr Ds appeal, L&G maintained its stance.Ive thought very carefully about everything thats been said and presented. I must make it 
clear that Im not a medical expert and therefore, my decisions must necessarily be based 
on an assessment of the available medical evidence. Its clear that Mr D was suffering from 
symptoms which can also be indicative of a significant mental health condition. But Mr D 
specifically stated that the trigger for his illness was a reaction to life stressors. And Ive 
borne in mind that a VCS concluded that Mr D was fit to work in a suited sedentary role. 
I appreciate Mr D was medically signed-off work by a medical practitioner. But I dont think 
this means L&G is bound to conclude that he met the policy definition of incapacity. Its clear 
that Mr Ds fit notes cite depression and anxiety (and latterly, a broken ankle) as the cause of 
his absence. But the notes dont indicate how Mr Ds symptoms affected his ability to work in 
any suited occupation or how they affected his functional impairment. Nor do I think the 
mental health nurses letter explains how Mr Ds symptoms affect him or the impact of his 
condition on his ability to function. And I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to find that 
there wasnt enough objective medical evidence to show that Mr D was incapacitated in line 
with the policy terms. This means I dont think it was unfair for L&G to conclude that Mr D 
hadnt shown he met the policy definition of incapacity during the deferred period.
Mr G has told us that Mr D now has further medical evidence to support his claim. As the 
investigator explained, as it doesnt appear that L&G has had an opportunity to consider and 
assess this evidence, it isnt something I can take into account here. Thats because, in the 
interests of fairness, L&G must be given a chance to review any new evidence before we 
can comment on it. If Mr D is unhappy with the outcome of any further review of his claim 
based on the new evidence, he may be able to make a new complaint about that issue 
alone.
Overall though, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Ds position, I find it was fair 
and reasonable for L&G to turn down his income protection claim based on the evidence it 
had available when it issued its final response to his complaint in June 2023.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman