DRN-1829806
The complaint
Miss M complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited ("L & G") declined her claim under 
a legal expenses insurance policy. She wants matters put right.
What happened
Miss M had a legal expenses insurance policy with L & G. She had work carried out on her 
property in 2013 (after agreeing a contract for the work in 2011), but felt that it was 
substandard. On 12 April 2019, she made a claim under the policy to get legal assistance to 
deal with the issue, but the claim was declined. This was because the policy required that 
the insured event happened within the period of insurance and the first event in the chain 
that led to the claim was the "date of occurrence". In Miss M's case, L & G said this was 
when the work was carried out in 2013 but as the policy didn't start until 9 January 2017, the 
date of occurrence was before the period of insurance.
Miss M complained to L & G. It said its decision to decline the claim was correct and Miss M 
should contact her previous insurer from 2013.
Miss M complained to us. The investigator's view was that L & G wasn't at fault. She said 
that it was clear that the claim predated the policy as L & G had explained, and said Miss M 
should contact her previous insurer for help. The investigator also pointed out that the policy 
excluded claims about the building or extension of a property or if the contract underlying the 
claim wasn't made during the period of insurance.
Miss M disagreed. She felt the investigator had been incompetent and the policy was full of 
small print. Miss M said the insurance industry rules had been ignored by this service and it 
wasn't fair to mention other possible reasons why the policy wouldn't cover the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When I refer to L & G, I'm also referring to 
its agents.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that L & G has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the policy itself and what it says as this is the basis of the legal 
agreement between the parties. The policy says that to be covered, the insured event must 
take place while the policy is in force. And it does say that the date of occurrence of an 
insured event is the date of the first event, not when a decision is taken to sue as Miss M 
argues. This position is not in breach of the regulations that regulate insurers and the policy 
provisions are fairly standard for legal expenses insurance policies (which may be why L & G 
and the investigator suggested that Miss M contacts her previous insurer).
The policy under which Miss M has claimed started in January 2017. But Miss M herself 
says that she had problems with the work done since about 2014, and she's been getting the builder to keep coming back to try to resolve the problem. Miss M also says that she'd 
changed her insurance provider a couple of times between 2013 and 2019. Given the 
circumstances, it isn't unfair or unreasonable for L & G to say that the claim pre-dates the 
policy and isn't covered. The fact that Miss M decided to take legal action in 2019 doesn't 
change the position that the first event was when the work was undertaken, or at the latest 
when Miss M became aware of the problems in 2014; this is before this policy was in force.
And the policy does exclude claims about the building or extension of a property or if the 
contract underlying the claim wasn't made during the period of insurance, both of which 
would exclude Miss M's claim in the circumstances. I can't say that it's unfair or 
unreasonable to apply the exclusions as they are clearly set out in the policy. By mentioning 
these exclusions, the investigator has given Miss M a chance to consider these points in 
order to respond for my decision. It isn't unreasonable or unfair for an insurer to set out what 
risks it will and won't cover, as long as they're set out in the policy - not every possible legal 
claim is covered. The policy has been set out in a way that does clearly tell policyholders 
what is and isn't covered in my view. But as the claim predates the policy, the point about 
the exclusions isn't critical. The insured event in Miss M's case is before the policy was 
started and it was fair and reasonable for L & G to decline the claim for that reason.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 
2 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman