DRN-3778691
The complaint
Mr B complains that the value of his Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) pension at 
retirement is not what he was led to believe it would be when it commenced. 
Mr B believes his pension was meant to provide an income of £6,700 per annum in 
retirement, with the actual value being materially lower than this.
What happened
In late 2004 Mr Bs employer closed their defined benefit (DB) pension scheme. This was 
replaced with a Group Company Stakeholder Pension. This new scheme was to be 
administered by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva).
Mr Bs employer had utilised the services of an advisory business, Firm A, to help set up 
the new pension scheme. Whilst Mr B has registered a separate complaint about Firm A, this 
decision focusses solely on the issues raised against Aviva.
Mr Bs Aviva pension commenced in November 2004 with all the premiums being invested 
into the Balanced Managed S2 Fund. The policy was set up to run until March 2021 to 
coincide with Mr B reaching 65 years of age.
The documentation issued in November 2004 showed that the policy included the 
Lifestyling feature. This is a process whereby the pension monies would be gradually 
moved away from riskier investments to lower risk funds as Mr B neared retirement, this is to 
protect the amount built up from sudden falls in value.
This initial documentation also explained how the premiums would be invested, how 
changes could be made to contribution levels, and how the pension investments could be 
changed. This documentation does not indicate any guarantees were applicable to the 
pension.
The illustration also provided projections on what the pension fund may be worth at 
retirement giving values between £85,000 and £155,000 depending on increases in earnings 
and investment performance over time. The illustration is clear that these figures are only 
examples and arent guaranteed  theyre not minimum or maximum amounts.
In addition, this illustration confirmed that for arranging the plan Aviva would pay Firm A 
commission based on the size of contributions and the length of the plan term.
Premiums were paid into the policy by both Mr B and his employer, with Aviva sending 
statements each year. These statements showed how the pension had performed over the 
previous year and provided projections on what Mr Bs pension fund may be worth at 
retirement.
The first annual statement was sent to Mr B in November 2005. This showed that 
contributions had totalled around £3,200 with the actual value being around £3,500. The 
statement provided benefit projections at retirement based on certain assumptions. These 
assumptions included ongoing contributions until age 65, investment growth of 7% each year 
and an inflation rate of 2.5% per annum. Based on this, annual income at retirement was 
projected to be around £3,000 with the document stating that this is only an estimate and 
isnt guaranteed.
The statement was also clear that the amounts shown may differ significantly from the actual 
pension value when Mr B retired and explained that the pension would depend on numerous 
factors including how much was paid in, how the underlying investments performed, if tax-
free cash was taken and the type of annuity chosen at retirement.
Follow up statements were sent to Mr B by Aviva on each policy anniversary which provided 
updated values and projections. These projections changed over time as assumptions on 
investment growth and inflation were updated to better reflect the changing economic 
outlook. The statements also showed when underlying investment funds were changed in 
line with the Lifestyling option that had been chosen in 2004. 
At each stage Aviva sent the relevant updates to Mr B with each of the projections provided 
stating that the figures were examples only and not minimums or maximums with actual 
benefits in retirement being based on contribution levels and investment performance.
In June 2021 Aviva responded to a complaint by Mr B regarding the value of his pension.
Aviva explained that the pension had been invested as per the application form submitted to 
them in 2004 with changes being possible should Mr B require. Aviva explained that whilst in 
general investments go up in value over time, there was no guarantee as to what Mr Bs 
pension would be worth at any point in time. Aviva did not uphold the complaint and provided 
Mr B with the information necessary to refer the complaint to this service. This outcome was 
re-affirmed in an additional response in October 2021.
In May 2022 Mr B referred his case to this service. This was initially in relation to a complaint 
made against Firm A however was subsequently expanded to include the complaint points 
against Aviva. Despite the timescales involved, Aviva agreed to this service considering Mr 
Bs complaint.
Our investigator looked into things and did not believe Aviva had done anything wrong. The 
investigator noted that the pension was invested as per the application form with there being 
no evidence Aviva provided any advice in relation to the pension. In addition, statements had 
been provided each year which informed Mr B he could alter the underlying investments 
should he wish, with warnings being provided that the policy had no underlying guarantees 
attached. 
Mr B did not agree. As well as disagreeing with the findings issued, Mr B noted additional 
concerns around the charges levied on the policy and the fact that lump sums which had 
been promised had not been provided by the pension. 
Our investigator noted that these new issues around charges and lump sums could not be 
considered at this stage as they would need to be referred to Aviva in the first instance. With 
no agreement reached, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to re-iterate here that I am only considering the complaint registered against Aviva, and not the complaint against Firm A.
Additionally, I would like to confirm that as per the information given by our investigator, this 
decision can only consider the original complaint point raised with this service  the 
performance of the Aviva pension. I would repeat here that this decision cannot consider the 
new issues raised by Mr B regarding charges or missing lump sums. 
There is no evidence on file that Aviva provided any regulated advice to Mr B in relation to 
this pension. Whilst general information about the pension may have been provided in 2004, 
this itself does not constitute advice. 
As part of the setting up of the new policy, Aviva were required to provide illustrations to 
show what the policy may be worth in future. However, as above, the provision of these 
documents does not mean Aviva provided any regulated advice. Additionally, having looked 
at the documents issued to Mr B, they clearly show that there were no guarantees as to what 
the pension would be worth in future or what benefits may be provided in retirement.
The documents are clear that the value of the pension would depend on the level of 
contributions made into the plan and the performance of the investment funds into which the 
premiums were invested. As above, there is no evidence that Aviva provided any advice to 
Mr B regarding the pension itself or the underlying investment fund. As such, they cannot be 
held accountable for the suitability of either the pension or the investment fund. 
Avivas responsibility was to administer the policy as per the terms and conditions and invest 
the contributions as per the policyholders wishes. Having looked at the paperwork on file, 
including the 2004 application form, there is no indication Aviva have done anything wrong. 
The premiums were invested correctly into the Balanced Managed S2 Fund as per the 
application form, with subsequent changes made to incorporate the Lifestyling option 
selected by Mr B at outset.
The complaint made by Mr B states that he thought the pension would provide an income of 
£6,700 per annum in retirement, however the documentation from 2004 does not show any 
type of guarantee was in place. The value of the pension, and what it may be worth at 
retirement has been sent to Mr B each year in his statements. Each of these statements is 
clear that the values projected are not guaranteed, and that the final amount provided by the 
pension would depend on several factors including contribution levels and investment 
performance. 
I appreciate that Mr B is disappointed with the value of the pension and that its current value 
is not as high as some of the projections that were provided at outset. However, those 
projections were only ever based on a series of assumptions with the documentation clear 
that those values could change over time.
Having looked at the documentation issued in 2004, and the annual statements sent to Mr B 
each subsequent year, I can find no evidence Aviva have done anything wrong. Aviva did 
not give any advice in relation to the pension or underlying investment fund and have 
administered the policy correctly over time. The contributions were invested into the fund 
chosen by Mr B at outset, with subsequent changes made to the funds in order to implement 
the Lifestyling option selected.
As such I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
As per the rationale above, I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman