DRN-2953872
The complaint
Mr N complains that MCE Insurance Limited failed to take payments for his motor insurance 
policy, and that he experienced distress and inconvenience as a result.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr N took out a motorbike insurance policy with MCE. The premium for 
the policy was payable by monthly instalments. Mr N set up a continuous payment authority 
to make the payments. 
In February 2021 MCE emailed Mr N to say that his payment had been missed. It said that if 
he didnt make the payment within 14 days his policy would be cancelled. And it charged him 
a default fee of £30. 
Mr N has provided evidence that he had enough money in his account at the time to make 
the payment. And he says he contacted his bank, which told him that no payment had been 
requested. 
Mr N contacted MCE and made the payment manually. He complained to MCE about the 
inconvenience hed been put to. And he pointed out that it had his correct bank details and 
hed had enough money in his account, so the payment should have gone through with no 
problem. 
MCE responded quickly, but said it wasnt upholding Mr Ns complaint. It said that despite 
no error being made by MCE it was willing to remove the £30 default fee. But it wouldnt 
remove any further fees if further payments were missed.
Then in March 2021 the same thing happened. MCE again emailed Mr N to tell him that his 
monthly payment had been missed. It again charged him a default fee of £30. And it again 
threatened to cancel the policy if payment wasnt received within 14 days. Once again Mr N 
phoned MCE and made the payment manually. 
Shortly after making the March 2021 payment, Mr N complained to this service about the 
problems hed experienced. He said hed had to spend a lot of time contacting MCE and his 
bank about the issues. And he said MCEs threats to cancel the policy had caused him 
distress and anxiety.
MCE upheld Mr Ns complaint about the missed payment in March 2021. It explained that 
this was because it had been experiencing system issues, and had tried to take the payment 
from the wrong card.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ns complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he thought that the system issues that caused the problem with the March 
payment were almost certainly the cause of the problem with the February payment too. He 
pointed out that although MCE had refunded both the £30 payments, it hadnt apologised to 
Mr N. He didnt think MCE had handled Mr Ns complaints well. He accepted that MCEs 
actions had caused worry and inconvenience to Mr N. And he said it should pay Mr N £100 
to compensate him for that.
MCE disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for similar 
reasons.
In response to Mr Ns complaint about the March payment, MCE explained that it had been 
having system issues and hadnt attempted to collect the payment from the right card. It said 
it had agreed to refund the default fee applied to your March instalment for any 
inconvenience caused. But the default fee wouldnt have been charged in the first place if 
MCE had tried to collect the payment from the correct card. So it was only right that it 
refunded it. Id have expected that to be done as a matter of course. The refund couldnt 
reasonably be regarded as being in acknowledgment of the inconvenience, as MCEs letter 
suggested. 
Like the investigator, I think its highly likely that the problem collecting the February payment 
arose from the same cause as the problem with the March payment  MCEs failure to use 
the correct card details when requesting the payment. MCE hasnt disputed this. So I think 
its likely that the problem with the payment was MCEs fault both times. Mr N was put to the 
trouble of having to contact MCE about the missed payment in two consecutive months. He 
also spent time contacting his bank about the issue. 
I can understand how receiving emails threatening to cancel the policy would have been 
worrying for Mr N, especially when hed done everything he needed to do to make sure that 
the payments were made. I acknowledge that MCEs pointed out that the emails were 
automatically generated. But MCEs responsible for the content of those emails, and for 
ensuring that mistakes arent made which result in their being sent inappropriately. And this 
happened twice in two months in Mr Ns case.
As the investigator commented, MCE hasnt apologised for its mistakes. Instead, its 
presented the refunds of the two £30 default fees as some form of concession to Mr N, even 
though they shouldnt have been charged in the first place.
Having thought carefully about everything that both Mr N and MCE have said, I consider the 
£100 recommended by the investigator to be fair and reasonable compensation. This 
reflects the distress and inconvenience that MCEs caused Mr N by the mistakes it made in 
collecting the payments, and by the way its handled his complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, MCE should pay Mr N £100 to apologise for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of its actions. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require MCE Insurance Limited to put things 
right by paying Mr N £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman