DRN-4270554
The complaint
Mrs C  complains that Step One Finance Limited irresponsibly lent her a second charge 
mortgage (secured loan). She says that Step One didnt carry out proper checks and didnt 
identify that she was spending compulsively on gambling which would have impacted her 
ability to repay the loan.
What happened
Mrs C  took out her loan with Step One in August 2020. She borrowed around £30,500 
including fees over 30 years at an interest rate of 8.9% fixed for five years, with a monthly 
payment of around £245. The purpose of the loan was to consolidate existing unsecured 
debt. Mrs C didnt approach Step One directly; the loan was recommended to her by a 
broker Ill call F.
Step One assessed the application. It noted that Mrs C had unsecured debt which she would 
be consolidating, but had no missed payments on either her main mortgage or her 
unsecured debt. It checked her income and expenditure and concluded the loan was 
affordable. As well as considering Mrs C's credit record, Step One also verified her income 
via payslips, and looked at one months bank statement. Step One also spoke to Mrs C 
before agreeing the loan and asked her whether she had any health or other issues which 
would impact her ability to repay the loan  Mrs C said she didnt.
In 2022, Mrs C complained to Step One. She said the loan shouldnt have been given to her. 
She said that at the time she applied for the loan she had mental health problems and a 
gambling addiction. Shed since been unable to keep up with the payments. She said Step 
One should have identified this at the time of the lending decision and not given her the loan.
Step One said it hadnt lent irresponsibly. It had checked Mrs C's income, expenditure and 
commitments and the loan was affordable. It had asked her whether there were any issues 
impacting her ability to repay the loan and she had said there werent. It had no reason to 
know of any health or gambling issues. It said Mrs C had taken out further credit since this 
loan, which may have contributed to her financial difficulties. But it wasnt responsible for 
that. It said it was willing to work with her to assist her in repaying the loan.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint. I said:
In reaching my view of this complaint, Ive considered the rules of mortgage regulation as 
they were at the time, including the obligations on a lender to lend responsibly having carried 
out a full affordability assessment. Ive taken into account what Mrs C, via the broker, told 
Step One as well as what Step One knew or ought to have known through its own enquiries.
Mrs C gave Step One her payslips. Her employment income appears accurately recorded. 
However, I understand Mrs C  also owned a rental property at the time  the rental income 
(and any expenditure in relation to that property) is not included.
Ive also considered what Mrs C said about her expenditure. Mrs C didnt provide a copy of 
her bank statement, but she did provide a series of screenshots of her banking app. Step 
One has provided us with its underwriting file, showing a months worth of transactions.
In the month provid ed, there were payments to:
Description Instances Total
An e-money provider 16 payments on 6 days £3,227.43
An e-money provider 4 payments on 2 days £335.30
An e-money provider 7 payments on 2 days £1,390.17
An e-money provider 13 payments on 4 days £3,800.32
A cryptocurrency firm 3 payments on 1 day £548.64
While there is nothing on Mrs C's bank screenshots to suggest any of these are payments to 
online gambling sites, Im aware from evidence provided on another complaint Mrs C has 
brought to us that until gambling payments from credit cards were banned, Mrs C gambled 
using credit card funds. And once that ban was in place, she moved to using e-money 
providers.
As I say, there is nothing on the banking screenshots provided to Step One that suggests 
these are obviously gambling related. However, the screenshots do show that Mrs C was 
making regular, and very large  especially compared to her income  payments to e-money 
providers. In my experience, such a pattern of payments can be suggestive of gambling. And 
in any case, as a responsible lender considering whether this loan would have been 
affordable to Mrs C, Id have expected Step One to have questioned what these payments 
were and considered whether such a size and frequency of payments were relevant to 
affordability  especially as they didnt reflect Mrs C's declared expenditure.
The rules of mortgage regulation require a lender such as Step One to seek evidence of 
income, and information about expenditure. None of these payments, or any other matter of 
concern, was declared in Mrs C's expenditure form. The rules say Step One may rely on 
information about expenditure provided by Mrs C  unless, taking a common sense view, it 
has reason to doubt what its told. Based on the banking screenshot showing the 
expenditure Ive set out above, which was information in Step Ones possession at the time, 
Im satisfied there were, on a common sense view, good grounds for doubting the accuracy 
or completeness of the expenditure information it was given.
Ive then gone on to think about what Step One ought, acting fairly in line with the rules, to 
have done in response to that doubt. In my view, it ought to have asked Mrs C to explain the 
transactions, and ought to have asked for further evidence of expenditure  such as bank 
statements going back more than one month.
Ive said above that Mrs C  has made another complaint about lending by her current account 
provider. As part of the evidence on that case, we have Mrs C's bank statements. They 
show that these transactions are not out of character  they reflect other transactions in the 
months before and months after the loan application.
Those statements also show that Mrs C was funding this expenditure in part by transfers from other bank accou nts in her name, in part by transfers from people who appea r to be 
family memb ers (in which context, she told Step One that one of the debts to be 
consolidated was an £8,000 family loan )  and in part by borrowing elsewhere.
For example, the banking screenshots in the underwriting file Step One has sent us start on 
18 June 2020. Mrs C's bank statements show she received £24,000 in an unsecured loan 
from another provider on 17 June 2020. This loan was not declared to Step One, was not in 
the list of loans to be consolidated by Step Ones loan and  because it was so recent  did 
not appear on her credit file. But it would have been discovered, and taken into account, had 
Step One carried out the further enquiries it ought to have been prompted to by the content 
of the banking screenshots it did consider. Mrs C transferred around £15,000 of that loan to 
her other accounts, and used £6,000 to pay off a credit card.
The screensh ots on Ste p Ones file do show a payme nt of £7,50 0 into her account from 
anothe r bank on 26 June 202 0. The payment is in the name of the bank  not a custome r of 
that bank  and Im aware from the other case that this was in fact another personal loan 
taken out by Mrs C. This loan was not on the list of debts to be consolidated by the Step One 
loan. Despite this loan showing on the screenshots in Step Ones possession, it does not 
appear to have questioned why Mrs C had taken it out so close to the Step One loan.
The screensh ots also show a third personal loan with a different bank, again for £7,500, 
taken out on 6 Jul y 2020. Again, Step One does not appear to have questioned this loan 
payment  even though its on the screenshots th at were in its possession at the time.
No expected payments for any of these loans  the two £7,500 loans taken out in July 2020 
and the £24,000 loan taken o ut in June 2020  appear on the expenditure information 
considered by Step One.
In my view, Step One ought to have been aware of both of the £7,500 loans. The payments 
into Mrs C's bank account showed on the screenshots it had. And it ought to have been 
aware of the £24,000 personal loan  since the e-money transactions ought to have led it to 
look more closely and at a longer period of Mrs C's bank statements.
In this connectio n, I note that the underwriting file Step One has given us only shows one 
months worth of banking screenshots, as Ive set out above.
However, Mrs C  has given us an email from the broker, F, which says that Step One 
requires two months bank statements not one. The broker comments I have tried to 
override this point but they [Step One] wont budge. I dont know whether F didnt pass the 
statements on to Step One, or whether Step One changed its mind about needing them, or 
whether Step One received them but didnt consider them or include them in the 
underwriting file sent to us. But this is further evidence that Step One ought to have 
considered a wider picture than the one months screenshots included in the underwriting 
file.
I dont think its enough for Step One to say it relied on what Mrs C told it about her 
expenditure, and that she didnt declare any reasons why the loan might be problematic 
when it spoke to her. Its not enough to rely on what the applicant says alone when, as here, 
there were clear grounds, on a common sense view, for doubting it. Nor is it enough to say 
that Mrs C's financial difficulties were caused by her taking out other loans around the same 
time as this loan rather than by this loan  that may be true, but as Ive set out, Step One 
knew or ought to have known about those other loans and should have taken them into 
account in deciding whether to lend.
Step One ought to have considered these loans not just from the point of view of whether the monthly payments on those loans would make this loan unaffordable, but also whether they 
were suggestive of a spiral of debt Mrs C wasnt managing  which is relevant to the broader 
question of whether this loan was sustainable and whether it was responsible to lend. Its 
difficult to see any other reasonable explanation for Mrs C consolidating £30,000 of debt with 
this loan, and also having taken out another £39,000 of debt weeks before this loan 
completed.
Step One also says that it only requested, and considered, Mrs C's banking screenshots for 
the purpose of verifying her income. That may well be the reason why it requested them. But 
I dont think its reasonable to say that once it had them in its possession, it should have 
ignored the other information they contained when that information ought to have given Step 
One considerable concern about whether it was appropriate to lend.
Im therefore satisfied that there was enough information in Step Ones possession  the e-
money expenditure and the two £7,500 loans  that ought reasonably to have led it to  
conclude that the expenditure information it used to determine affordability wasnt accurate, 
and that this loan might not be sustainable for Mrs C. And that information ought reasonably  
to have led it to make further enquiries, which would have revealed both the £24,000 loan  
and that the expenditure was not isolated.
Step One says that Mrs C has largely been managing this loan  which shows it wasnt 
unaffordable. But I dont agree about that. She has missed payments  including taking a 
coronavirus payment deferral almost immediately after taking it out. And shes explained that 
shes (rightly) prioritised this loan as one secured over her property while taking debt advice 
and reaching arrangements with her unsecured creditors. Had Step One not lent this loan, 
she would have had the chance to do that with the unsecured debt consolidated into it too.
In my view, Step One ought reasonably to have considered the information Ive set out above 
which was in its possession or which it ought reasonably to have obtained. Having done so, it 
ought reasonably to have taken into account the e-money expenditure and the monthly 
payments for these three personal loans. And had it done so, Im satisfied that  acting fairly 
as a responsible mortgage lender  it would have concluded that this loan was not affordable 
or sustainable for Mrs C , and as a result it would never have lent. It follows that Step One 
lent irresponsibly.
To put matters right, I dont think it would be fair to say Step One should write off the loan 
balance  Mrs C borrowed this money and had the benefit of it. It appears the loan was not 
used directly for gambling transactions; rather, it was used to repay existing unsecured debt 
and Ive no evidence that unsecured debt was itself irresponsibly lent.
Instead, Step One should treat all payments Mrs C has made to date as payments towards 
the capital. It should remove all interest and fees it has charged, including the initial lender 
application fee. I dont direct Step One to remove the broker fee, since it didnt charge that 
fee and the broker was already involved before the application to Step One was made. Any 
complaint about the fee charged by the broker would need to be dealt with in a separate 
complaint to the broker.
This will reduce the outstanding loan balance to around £24,000. Step One should then work 
out the monthly payment Mrs C needs to make over the remainder of the term to repay the 
remaining capital  with no further interest or fees being charged. It should also remove any 
information about this loan from Mrs C's credit file. Step One will also need to act fairly and 
sympathetically in recovering the outstanding capital from Mrs C in the event the reduced 
monthly payment of capital only is unaffordable for her.
Finally, I think this lending decision caused Mrs C substantial upset by adding to her indebtedness  and securing it over her property, which makes it more difficult fo r her to 
reach the same sort of arrangement shes reached with other creditors. I think £500 is fair 
compensation for the resulting d istress and inconvenience in all the circumstances.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs C  asked me to consider directing Step One to write the loan balance off. She said she 
did use the money she borrowed for gambling rather than consolidating debts  the debts 
that she was supposed to have consolidated ended up being included in her arrangement 
with her unsecured creditors. She says that as a result she didnt have the benefit of what 
the loan was intended for. The loan is secured against her home but should never have 
been lent. 
Step One didnt agree with my provisional decision. It provided further evidence which it said 
showed:
It increased the expenditure it considered in its underwriting assessment following a 
review of Mrs C's bank screenshots, and questioned some of the information it  found. 
In particular, it asked about the money going out of the account, and Mrs C told it that 
the money related to a fundraising campaign she was running for the  benefit of the 
family of a recently deceased friend. She provided evidence of the  online fundraising 
campaign and Step One verified it for itself.
Step One therefore did check the information Mrs C provided. It had no reason to  
know that she was in fact paying substantial sums to gambling companies via
e-money providers. It said it didnt enquire further into the fundraising because doing  
so would be insensitive and potentially inappropriate.
All the debts Step One knew about were consolidated into this loan. It believes  Mrs C  
deliberately concealed the most recent borrowing by not declaring it in the  application, 
and because it was so recent Step One could not have seen it on her  credit file.
One of the recent £7,500 loans was later recorded on Mrs C's credit file as having  
been repaid 11 days after it was taken out, and before the Step One loan completed.
It has not been able to find any evidence of a second £7,500 loan on her credit file,  so 
questions whether that payment was a loan at all, or whether it was also repaid  within 
a short time and so didnt appear on Mrs C's credit file at all.
It now appears the £24,000 was not a personal loan but a further advance on a  
mortgage secured on a different property  Mrs C had not declared her ownership of  
this property or the associated mortgage on her application. And according to Land  
Registry and credit file records she sold that property in 2021, realising £60,000 of 
equity none of which was used to pay this loan.
Step One said it did not see this loan at the time because it was not recorded with the  
particular credit reference agency it used. It only discovered the existence of this 
property in 2021 when Mrs C said she would use part of the sale proceeds to repay  
coronavirus payment deferrals. The checks it carried out at the time of lending were  
reasonable, and didnt allow it to discover this loan.
Step One does not agree it can be held responsible where a customer has concealed  
or withheld information. And to uphold a complaint in such circumstances risks  
encouraging application fraud.Step One does not think it appropriate for me to consider evidence received by the  
Financial Ombudsman Service in respect of another complaint.
Step One said it made a reasonable underwriting decision based on the information it  
had at the time  including a clean credit file with no gambling activity visible,  
reasonable expenditure and a reasonable explanation for large payments.
It said it was willing to offer Mrs C  reasonable forbearance if she is in financial  
difficulties. But it did not agree that this complaint should be upheld.
Mrs C  said the fundraiser raised around £1,200. Ive checked and when it ended the total 
was around £1,700, so this is consistent with it being at around £1,200 at the time of the 
lending decision. We asked Mrs C to provide statements or transaction histories from the e 
money providers but she was unable to do so. She said she didnt tell Step One about the 
other property because she was worried the loan would be turned down. She said she was 
in a bad place with a gambling addiction at the time, and Step One should have done more 
checks to stop her taking out the loan. She said the further advan ce on the mortgage was 
also spent on gambling. 
More recently, Mrs C  said, she has recovered from her addiction and got her finances back 
under control. She now only has the main mortgage and this loan secured on her property, 
and her unsecured debt is in a debt management plan. She hasnt made any payments to 
this loan pending the resolution of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also reconsidered my provisional findings, and taken into accou nt the furthe r evidence 
and argument that has been provided since.
I dont agree that its not reasonable to take into accou nt evidence weve been provided with 
on another complaint, if its relevant to this complaint. In thi s case, the evidence I was 
referring to isnt directly relevant to Step Ones lending decision, since it pre-dates that 
decision. But the evidence  Mrs C's bank and credit card statements  corroborates her 
account that she made extensive payments to gambling websites which, by the time of this 
loan, had been replaced with payments to e-money providers rather than direct to gambling 
sites. 
And they are evidence that, if it had acted on the common sense doubts it ought to have had 
based on the information in its possession, it would have obtained itself at the time. I based 
my provisional decision on information Step One did have  or ought reasonably to have 
had, if it had made the further enquiries I think it ought reasonably to have made.
It did have one months worth of screenshots from Mrs C's bank account. And I remain 
satisfied that it ought to have considered these, and that the information contained in them 
ought  on a common sense basis  have led it to question what Mrs C had said.
Step One says it checked the online fundraiser itself, and has provided a screenshot it took 
of it. I dont know the precise balance at the time (it hasnt provided that part of the 
screenshot), but it must have been no more than the £1,700 that was the final total. This 
cannot therefore explain the more than £9,000 in payments the banking screenshots showed 
to e-money and cryptocurrency providers. And I dont think that Step One considered this to 
be a sensitive matter was a reasonable explanation for not enquiring further into this discrepancy.
And while the other property and mortgage might not have shown up on the particula r credit 
reference agency Step One used at the time, the £24,000 further advance did show on the 
banking screenshots Mrs C had, as did one of the £7,500 loans. One of those loans might 
have been paid off before the Step One loan completed  but that is something Step One 
has discovered now, not something it took into account at the time. Had it asked Mrs C for 
further information about her finances in light of the questions it ought reasonably to have 
asked having considered the banking information it had, I think it ought reasonably to have 
discovered the other loan too. 
Overall, Im satisfied that there was enough information in Step Ones possession at the time 
it made the lending decision that ought reasonably to have led it  on a common sense basis 
 to question whether the information it had been given was accurate. It ought reasonabl y to 
have led Step One to make further enquiries, which would have led to it discovering further  
matters of concern  including Mrs C's recent additional indebtedness which she hadnt  
declared, as well as her high spending to e-money providers. Taking into account what it  
knew or ought to have known, I think it ought reasonably to have substantial concerns about  
the accuracy of what Mrs C had told it, and it ought reasonably to have questioned whether  
this loan was affordable or sustainable for her. In my view, taking those factors into account,  
it wasnt  and it follows that Step One didnt lend responsibly.
Ive also considered Step Ones point that it seems Mrs C actively concealed, or didnt 
declare, some of these matters despite being asked about her income, expenditure and 
debts as part of the application. I understand its concerns about this. But separate to 
Mrs C's obligations to give accurate information, Step One had its own obligations. It had to 
consider the information it did have, and while a lender is generally entitled to rely on 
information about expenditure its given by an applicant, it shouldnt do so without further 
checks if there are common sense grounds for doubting it  as there were here. 
Even if Mrs C  didnt give Step One a full picture in making her application, it still ought to 
have checked what it had been told carefully, and if it had done so it would have discovered 
many of the matters Ive set out. Thats one of the reasons underwriting checks are 
important. Had it acted on the information it had in its possession, it wouldnt  acting fairly  
have lent. 
However, I dont think it would be fair to write off the loan balance. It wouldnt be fair for Step 
One to recover interest on, or fees for, a loan it should never have lent. But it did lend the 
capital to Mrs C and its fair and reasonable that she pays it back.. I understand Mrs C feels 
that she didnt benefit from the loan in the sense that it, or the debts it repaid, were largely 
spent on gambling. But she did receive the money and make use of it, and it repaid debts 
she already had  without this loan she would still have had those debts. I think its fair and 
reasonable that she repays what she borrowed  but that Step One shouldnt be entitled to 
charge interest on money it shouldnt have lent.
Putting things right
To put things right, Step One should remove all interest, and all fees it has charged including 
the lender application fee which were added to the loan balance, and not charge future 
interest. It should treat all payments Mrs C has made to date as being payments to capital 
reducing the balance. It should then contact Mrs C to reach an affordable payment 
arrangement for the outstanding balance. 
Mrs C  will need to co-operate with this process and provide information about her income 
and expenditure as the remaining capital balance will remain secured over her property and will need to be repaid.
Finally, Step One should remove all records relating to this loan from Mrs C's  credit files, 
because had it acted fairly the loan would not have been lent  so it wouldnt be fair for her 
credit file to reflect lending she shouldnt have been given. And it should pay Mrs C £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its lending decision  Ive taken 
into account that Mrs C clearly wanted this loan and took steps to improve her chances of 
getting it. But nonetheless it should not have been lent to her, and its existence has made it 
more difficult for her to resolve her overall financial problems than would have been the case 
had the debt it consolidated remained unsecured. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Step One Finance Limited to put 
matters right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman