DRN-3914988
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the service provided by Chubb European Group SE (CEG) after 
purchasing insurance for her smart watch.
What happened
Chubb European Group SE are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint 
concerns the actions of the agent, company E. As Chubb European Group SE have 
accepted they are accountable for the actions of company E, in my decision, any reference 
to Chubb European Group SE includes the actions of company E. 
Mrs D purchased insurance for her smart watch on 24 April 2022. The purchase of insurance 
was non-advised and took place over a call. 
Part of the sales process involved Mrs D being sent information through an online portal to 
review what she was agreeing to purchase. Mrs Ds online basket included a smart watch 
and insurance for the watch. 
The online portal also included four pages of sales agreement documents, including the 
sales terms and conditions, full cover insurance summary, multi-plan saving details, and 
direct debit agreement. The full cover insurance summary explained Replacement devices 
will be from refurbished stock. And If your claim is successful, well aim to replace your 
device the next day. 
Mrs D was sent full terms and conditions for her insurance by post in a welcome pack on the 
same day. Mrs D says she never received this information. 
The terms and conditions explained:
The replacement Mobile Phone or Connected Device will be of the same or similar 
specification, but it may be a different model or operating system. The replacement 
will be from refurbished stock that has been tested and is fully functional.
Once Your claim has been accepted We will arrange the delivery of the 
replacement for a time and day, from a range of available options.
In May 2022 Mrs Ds watch was accidentally damaged. She contacted CEG to make a claim 
under her insurance policy. Mrs D was told she would be sent a replacement watch from 
refurbished stock. Mrs D complained to CEG as she wanted her watch to be repaired, or for 
a new replacement watch to be provided. 
CEG responded to Mrs Ds complaint saying that theyd acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of her policy, and so wouldnt be doing anything more in settlement of her 
complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mrs D referred her complaint to this service.
The investigator found that the service provided by CEG was reasonable. Mrs D didnt 
agree. As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Refurbished stock information not explained at the point of sale
Mrs D says I shouldve at least had a conversation about refurbished stock. Mrs D says 
she doesnt wear anything second hand, and so wouldnt have taken out insurance with 
CEG knowing theyd only issue a replacement from refurbished stock in the event of a claim. 
Ive considered whether CEG did enough to allow Mrs D to make an informed decision about 
whether to purchase insurance. Having considered the evidence, Im persuaded they did. 
I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs D. But I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mrs D spoke to a representative about the option to purchase insurance with her smart 
watch. During this call, Mrs D was provided with access to an online portal with details of her 
purchases, and four pages of sales documents. CEG have provided screenshots of the 
information Mrs D wouldve seen on the portal at the time of sale. They have also included 
an audit trail for each page viewed by Mrs D at the time. 
Mrs D agrees she purchased insurance during a phone call with a representative. She has 
also confirmed she reviewed documents on an online portal. Although Mrs D disputes the 
key terms that were provided, I think its fair to say that Mrs D had access to reviewing 
information on the portal at the time she purchased insurance for her watch. 
Mrs D feels strongly that she did not receive any information about refurbished stock at the 
time she took out insurance with CEG. I dont doubt that what Mrs D has told me is how she 
remembers it. Ive seen that the audit trail shows that the Full cover insurance document 
was viewed at the same time that the sale of the smart watch and insurance took place. This 
document explained Replacement devices will be from refurbished stock. I think CEG 
reasonably highlighted to Mrs D that refurbished stock would be used in the event of a claim. 
CEG say full terms and conditions wouldve been posted on the same day within a welcome 
pack. The full terms and conditions explained The replacement will be from refurbished 
stock that has been tested and is fully functional. They have also explained the terms and 
conditions document wouldve been personalised to include Mrs Ds name and address at 
the time of being created. I have seen a copy of this document. 
I havent seen any evidence to say that CEGs process for sending documents would not 
have been followed in this case. So although I accept Mrs D may not have received it, I think 
CEG did most likely send a welcome pack to Mrs D, and this document further highlighted 
the replacement device process.  
I accept that there has been some confusion in the information Mrs D has been told about 
how her policy was sold. But the evidence Ive seen persuades me that Mrs D wouldve had 
sight of documents confirming what she was agreeing to buy, and a summary of the insurance terms and conditions for the insurance she was purchasing. The online sales 
portal reasonably highlighted Replacement devices will be from refurbished stock. This 
wording was provided in one of four documents available on the portal. So I dont agree this 
wording was particularly difficult to find, or disguised within large amounts of text. 
For the reasons provided I think CEG did enough to explain the type of replacement device 
that would be provided, and Mrs D was able to make an informed decision about the 
suitability of the insurance for her. So I wont be asking CEG to do anything more in 
settlement of this complaint. 
Repair option not provided
Mrs D says the least they can do is repair the watch Mrs D says she was told the reason 
why repair of her watch could not be offered was because she was not in the catchment 
area for an authorised tradesperson to complete the repairs. 
CEG have been unable to provide call recordings. Although call recordings wouldve been 
helpful in determining exactly what Mrs D was told, I have looked at the complaint response 
provided to Mrs D and the complaint notes showing the investigation carried out by CEG.
The complaint notes record She's unhappy as her insurance policy includes accidental 
damage but we can't repair as it's not on the repair list. She does not feel like receiving a 
refurbished watch is fair as the one she has is just damaged and not faulty and rep device 
she'll receive will be from probably a faulty phone Repairs are not offered under insurance 
for this policy and a refurbished replacement must be exchanged. This is stated in terms and 
conditions included in welcome pack
Although repair of Mrs Ds watch was discussed during her call with a CEG representative, I 
think the complaint notes and final response letter of 5 July 2022 made it clear to Mrs D that 
the reason for offering a replacement was because this was in line with the terms and 
conditions of her insurance policy. 
The terms and conditions for Mrs Ds policy explained Once Your claim has been accepted 
We will arrange the delivery of the replacement for a time and day, from a range of 
available options. I have also seen that the Full cover insurance document explained If 
your claim is successful, well aim to replace your device the next day.
Both these documents explain that the outcome of a claim thats accepted would be 
replacement of a watch- not repairs. Im satisfied that the complaint response sent to Mrs D 
also confirmed the correct reason for offering Mrs D a replacement watch. 
So although Mrs D may have been of the view that CEG couldve offered to repair her watch, 
I think CEG did enough to make it clear how Mrs Ds claim would be dealt with and the terms 
and conditions relied on in support of this. So I wont be asking CEG to do anything more in 
settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman