The complaint
Miss R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy when she took out a credit card in April 1995.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in April 1995. Miss R says she was 
advised to take out the policy when she applied for the credit card in a Barclays branch. She 
says she didnt know anything about the policy; the costs of it werent explained; and she 
wasnt told about the policys terms and conditions and exclusions.
The policy cost 70p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a successful 
claim, it would repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve 
months. The policy covered Miss R in the event she wasnt working due to accident sickness 
or unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. She said that because Miss R was working less than 
16 hours a week, the advice Barclays gave her was unsuitable; she said that the 
circumstances under which Miss R couldve made a successful claim under the policy were 
quite limited.
Barclays says it didnt advise Miss R to purchase the PPI; it says she completed a postal 
application and chose to take the policy. And it believes Miss R was working more than 16 
hours each week; so she couldve made a successful claim on the policy had she needed to.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2020. In this I explained that I didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. I said:
I think Barclays made Miss R aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it 
 although I can understand why she can no longer remember this more than 25 years later.
I say this because Ive seen a copy of the application form, and can see that she selected
PPI before signing the application form in April 1995.
I dont have any way of knowing with certainty that Miss R made the ticks, but, on balance, 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that she chose to purchase PPI. And as the PPI 
wouldve appeared on her monthly credit card statements, then had the PPI been added to 
her account without either her knowledge or her consent, I wouldve expected her to query or 
challenge this in the first few months after the account was opened.
So, taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied the PPI was optional and that Miss R 
chose to purchase it.
DRN-1925988Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss R  she chose to buy it herself on a postal 
application form  so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. Miss R needed to make 
that decision herself.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Miss R chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type 
of cover. She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations which might have 
made it unattractive to her  she told us she was employed and in good health  so she 
wouldnt have been affected by any terms relating to existing health conditions or unusual 
working practices.
We asked Miss R some questions about her employment in 1995. She told us she worked 
part-time, and averaged 20 hours paid work each week. So, Im satisfied she couldve 
benefited to the full extent of the policy; the circumstances under which she could claim were 
not limited as our adjudicator believed.
It seems that the PPI wouldve been useful for her if she wasnt working because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment  this policy wouldve paid out in addition to any 
employer benefits to which she may have been entitled. It would also have allowed her to 
use the three months savings she says she had for other more pressing matters at what 
would be a stressful time.
Miss R told us she couldve relied on her family and friends if the need arose and Ive 
considered this very carefully. But I have to tell Miss R that there could be no guarantee that 
her family or friends circumstances would allow them to help her for an unknown liability at 
some unknown point in the future. So I think the policy wouldve been useful to her.
The policy was also competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Miss R would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think she would still have taken out the policy. And as it was a regular premium 
policy, had Miss R decided she no longer wanted it, or could no longer afford it, then she 
couldve cancelled it at any time without penalty. 
Ive taken into account all of Miss Rs comments, but at the moment, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Rs complaint. 
I issued my provisional decision in May 2020 and I invited both parties to let me have any 
further information they wanted me to see before I issued my final decision. And as neither 
party has provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings.
 
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27July2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman