DRN-3163478
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse him for transactions on his debit 
card which he says he didnt authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Most months between July 2018 and June 2019 payments were made using Mr Ts HSBC 
debit card. These payments were all to a merchant Ill refer to as M and they were typically 
for around £160. 
Mr T says he had signed up to a free trial with M and provided his card details when doing 
so. But he says he cancelled within the free trial period and so never should have been 
charged. He says he only noticed this later when doing his end of year accounts. When Mr T 
raised this with HSBC, they raised a chargeback claim for all the payments that fell within the 
card scheme operators time limits. This resulted in the final three payments being refunded. 
But they said there was nothing further they could do to assist. 
Mr T complained and the matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to review his complaint. I wrote to Mr T informally, explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold 
his complaint. Part of my email said:
The crux of your complaint is that you say you provided your card details for a free trial with 
[M]. You say that after the first payment came out you cancelled the membership with them. 
So you didnt agree to or authorise the subsequent payments that were taken most months 
until June 2019.
When you informed HSBC of this, they raised a chargeback which wasnt defended and so 
the payments that were eligible under the scheme rules, by that I mean were within time 
(120 days from date of transaction) were reimbursed. But you are still out of pocket for the 
remaining transactions and would like HSBC to refund these.
As our investigator explained, generally customers will only be liable for authorised 
transactions. If a payment isnt authorised, then a customer wont normally be liable for it.
In a call with our investigator in October 2021 you said that you were aware that the service 
was a membership. You also said that you cancelled this within an initial 30-day period or in 
November 2018. You said you couldnt remember for sure but the cancellation was done 
either through an online chat, or on the phone.
Based on what youve said, I think its most likely that you entered into a Continuous 
Payment Authority (CPA) with [M]. This is a common model where you agree to a 
subscription service (often after a free trial) and authorise a merchant to take ongoing 
payments. Your testimony supports that you were aware of a free trial followed by payments 
becoming due. I say this because had you not been aware of future payments being taken 
there wouldnt have been a need to cancel. And even if you were to argue that the CPA 
wasnt made clear Id need to see evidence to support that was the case  which I havent. 
So, in the first instance on balance Im satisfied that you agreed to a CPA and therefore 
authorised the disputed payments. But that isnt the end of the story. If you withdrew your 
consent, then further payments that are taken would be deemed unauthorised.
Ive thought carefully about this. Understandably it isnt easy to provide a detailed 
recollection of events from so long ago. But Im not currently persuaded that you instructed 
[M] to stop your payments and withdrew your consent. Beyond your testimony, there is no 
documentary evidence that this is what happened. Often there will be some sort of email 
confirmation, or notification that a trial period of membership has come to an end. Youve not 
(to date) supplied such evidence.
Further to this, the payments were showing on your statements and I can see that you 
accessed your online banking numerous times within the relevant period. I know youve said 
you didnt notice any of them until you were doing your accounts just prior to reporting this to 
HSBC. But I think its unlikely you wouldnt have noticed these payments (which werent for 
insignificant amounts) that took place most months. If you believed youd cancelled its 
difficult to understand how the payments that went on for nearly a year werent noticed and 
challenged sooner.
Given that Im intending to conclude that these were authorised payments (and Im not 
persuaded youve evidenced you withdrew your consent), the only option available to HSBC 
to assist was the chargeback scheme. But as they successfully obtained reimbursement for 
the payments that had been raised in time, I cant fairly criticise them for not having done 
more.
Ive also considered what youve said about two-factor authentication. It isnt for us to tell a 
business what systems they ought to have in place. Ive found above that its most likely you 
entered into a CPA and in doing so authorised both the initial and subsequent payments 
from your account. As such, I think it is fair for HSBC to hold you liable for them. I dont think 
HSBC not introducing further systems that youve mentioned sooner, makes a difference to 
the outcome of this complaint...
Mr T still disputes that this is a fair outcome. He provided a response to my email which Ill 
go on to address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T is adamant that he cancelled the free trial with M. He says this took place before the 
first payment was even taken. He also says this took place during an online chat which is 
why he cant evidence it. And that although he logged on to his online banking, he never 
spent long using it and so didnt, at the time, see any of the payments he later disputed. He 
insists he is a victim and that he ought to be reimbursed. 
I accept that broadly speaking there are two possibilities here. Firstly, that what Mr T is 
saying is correct, and that he did withdraw his consent with M, but he just isnt able to 
evidence this. Or that he didnt. I acknowledge its almost impossible to know this with a high 
degree of certainty. So, I need to make my decision based on the balance of probability, as 
to what I think is most likely to have happened. Ive considered all that Mr T has said, but Im not persuaded to change from the outcome 
Ive previously explained. I remain satisfied that its most likely Mr T entered into a CPA and 
in doing so he consented to the payments that were subsequently taken. 
Mr T says he withdrew his consent when he cancelled during the free trial period. But this 
isnt supported by any other documentary evidence. I dont think it would be fair to rely solely 
on Mr Ts testimony to uphold this complaint and to direct HSBC to make a significant 
payment on that basis. I have to consider all the available evidence and arguments. 
And for the reasons Ive explained, I know Mr T visited his online banking numerous times. 
Notwithstanding his comments about how long he was logged on for, I dont think it is 
plausible that he never checked his statements at all and didnt see any of the disputed 
payments until shortly before reporting the matter. Mr Ts statements show that it wasnt 
unusual for his balance to be down to tens of pounds prior to his wages arriving in the 
account. This, for me, makes it even more implausible that he wouldnt have noticed 
numerous payments of around £160 leaving.
Overall, I think its more likely than not that Mr T knowingly entered into a CPA with M and in 
doing so he authorised all the payments that were then taken and Im not persuaded by his 
testimony that he withdrew that consent. As such HSBCs actions in holding him liable for 
those transactions are fair and reasonable. And I dont think HSBC could have done more 
than they did to try to assist Mr T to recover his payments through the chargeback scheme.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman