DRN-2372932
The complaint
Mr A is complaining Admiral Insurance Company Limited caused further damage to his car 
after he made a claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr As car was damaged in an accident so he contacted Admiral to claim for the damage 
incurred. Admiral declared the car a total loss. Mr A asked if he could retain the cars 
salvage which Admiral agreed to. However, when the car was returned to him, Mr A says 
there was further damage inflicted to it. In particular he highlighted the following:
1. Front passenger door was badly scratched;
2. Front bumper had damage to the right-hand side;
3. Seal on the drivers door was damaged;
4. There was damage to the wing mirrors;
5. The car was missing around £30 worth of fuel; and
6. The car was returned dirty.
Admiral largely upheld Mr As complaint. It accepted its agent had damaged the mirror and it 
offered him £690.25 to pay for the cost of repairing this. It also acknowledged the loss of fuel 
and the car was dirty. So it offered £30 for the loss of fuel and £30 to get the car valeted. It 
said there wasnt anything to specifically show the door seal wasnt damaged before the 
accident. But it said it was willing to give Mr A the benefit of the doubt on this. And it offered 
him a further £117.67 for this.
Admiral also acknowledged its agent had damaged the front bumper. But it said the bumper 
would need to be replaced owing to the damage from the accident, so it didnt think Mr A had 
lost out because of this additional damage. It also acknowledged there were fresh scratches 
on the door. But it said the paintwork would need to be blended to match the rest of the car 
as part of the accident repair. And it thought this would repair the scratches. So it didnt think 
it needed to compensate him for either of these.
Admiral also offered Mr A £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused him.
Mr A didnt accept this as he still thought Admiral should pay to repair all the damage 
highlighted. He also didnt think £100 was a fair reflection of all the distress and 
inconvenience this matter had caused him. So he referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint. He said it was clear Admirals agent had 
caused further damage to both the front bumper and the passenger door. But he was 
satisfied Admiral had shown Mr A would have had to replace the bumper as a result of the 
accident damage regardless of the additional damage caused. So he didnt think Admiral 
needed to compensate for this. However, he thought there was additional work required to 
repair the door. So he thought Admiral should cover this. He also thought it should pay Mr A 
a further £50 in compensation.
Admiral initially agreed with the investigator and said it would pay a further £50 in 
compensation and cover the repair cost, subject to Mr A providing a reasonable repair 
estimate. However, Mr A said, due to the passage of time, he could no longer provide the 
repair invoice. The investigator explained this to Admiral and asked if it would calculate how 
much it thought it would cost to fix this. But Admiral responded to say its internal engineer 
had considered this but he didnt think it should have to pay anything as it reiterated this 
repair would have been required anyway. But it agreed to pay a further £50 in compensation. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Admiral has already agreed to cover the costs of repairing the wing mirrors and the door 
seal. Its also agreed to pay £30 to reflect the lost fuel and a further £30 so Mr A can valet 
his car. I havent seen anything to show that the amount its paid doesnt cover the losses 
Mr A has suffered in this respect. So Im not going to comment on this further, apart from to 
say I think its fair and in line with what I would have awarded.
The key issues remaining are the damage to the front bumper, damage to the passengers 
door and the amount of compensation offered for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr A. I shall deal with each point separately. 
Front bumper
Its clear from the photographs the bumper suffered further damage while in Admirals 
agents possession. But I need to think about whether Mr A has lost out as a result of this  
i.e. whether I think this has added to his repair cost. I dont think it has. 
Admirals repair estimate sets out the damage arising from the original accident wasnt 
repairable, so this meant it would need to replace the bumper to rectify the damage from the 
accident. Ive looked at the photos of the accident damage. And I cant say this is an unfair 
statement as the damage does seem to be extensive. So Mr A was always going to have to 
pay to replace the front bumper regardless of whether Admirals agent caused further 
damage or not. So I dont think this additional damage has increased his repair bill. So I 
dont think hes lost out in this respect. 
Passenger door
Its also not disputed further damage was caused to the passenger door. Admiral says it 
would have had to blend the paintwork on the door because of the accident damage. So it 
doesnt think this additional damage has increased the repair cost either. But I dont agree 
with this.
The photographs show there was very minimal damage, if any, to the door from the 
accident. The scratches Admirals agent caused were away from the accident damage. I do 
not dispute a degree of paintwork blending would have been required as part of the repair of 
the accident damage. But, given the extent of the scratches to the door, Im satisfied Mr A 
would have had to pay more to have this repaired.
Due to the passage of time, Mr A isnt able to provide a copy of the original repair invoice. 
But its clear hes lost out as a result of whats happened. Weve asked Admiral to tell us how 
much it thinks it would cost to fix the damage, but its not told us this either. So I need to 
think whats a fair way to redress this. 
I dont think it would require a significant repair, but it would naturally incur a cost. Im 
inclined to conclude £250 is a fair amount of money to compensate Mr A for the financial 
losses in this respect. So I intend to require Admiral to pay this. Distress and inconvenience
Admiral initially offered Mr A £100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter caused him. 
But I dont think this was fair. It was Admirals responsibility to safeguard Mr As property 
while it was in its possession. Its agent caused a reasonably significant amount of damage 
to his car. And it cant be disputed that this would have distressed Mr A a lot. Hes also had 
to spend a significant amount of time looking to resolve this. And I dont think £100 is fair 
compensation for this.
However, Admiral has now agreed to increase this compensation to £200. I think this is in 
line with what I would have awarded. So I think this is fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused. And I dont intend to award anything further.
Admiral didnt accept my provisional decision. It said Mr A hasnt provided anything to show 
hed incurred extra costs when repairing the door. It thought it would be reasonable to 
assume Mr A would have kept this information in case he wanted to sell the car in the future 
to evidence the repairs were carried out and to the correct standard. It said, as a result of no 
documentation being available, this service asked Admiral to set out how much it thought it 
would cost to repair the scratches. 
Admiral said its engineer didnt think there would be any extra costs involved in dealing with 
these scratches as he said it was necessary to blend the door to match the rest of the car as 
part of the accident repairs. So it thought Mr A would have to pay for these repairs 
regardless of the additional damage. It said the engineer is a qualified industry expert and it 
said theres nothing to contradict his opinion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Admirals additional comments into account. But Ive come to the same conclusion 
as I did in my provisional decision. Ive taken the engineers comments in respect to the 
damage to the door into account, but Im not persuaded theyre fair. 
Ive looked at the engineer report carried out on the accident damage. The report says left 
front door repair painting <50%. I understand when engineers calculate a blend refinish of 
an undamaged area its calculated at 50%. I understand this is because the preparatory work 
will already be done on surrounding panels, thus cutting down the labour time, as opposed 
to preparing a single panel for repair. 
However, in this case  owing to the damage caused to the door, I dont think its simply a 
matter of blending in the paintwork on an undamaged area. Avivas agent has caused 
damage on the door that needs to be repaired before the paintwork can be blended in which 
I think is inevitably going to increase labour cost and materials. Taking into account the 
estimated repair costs for carrying out a 50% blend, I still dont think £250 is an unfair 
reflection of the repair cost involved.
That said, I accept part of the original repair estimate included an allowance to do some 
blending to the paintwork. So I think Aviva can deduct this from the amount I suggested as 
repair cost. 
I note Aviva has said Mr A hasnt given any evidence of a repair bill. But Im satisfied my 
provisional decision set out why I dont think its unreasonable Mr A isnt able to provide a copy of the original repair invoice. And I still think Mr A has lost out as a result of the 
additional damage caused to the door.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that uphold this complaint. And I 
require Admiral Insurance Company Limited should do the following to put things right:
1. Pay £690.25 to cover the cost of repairing the mirrors if it hasnt already done so; *
2. Pay £117.67 to cover the cost of repairing the internal door seal if it hasnt already done 
so; *
3. Pay £30 so Mr A can have his car valeted if it hasnt already done so;
4. Pay £30 to replace the fuel that was used by its agents if it hasnt already done so;
5. Pay £250 to cover the additional costs Im satisfied would have been required to fix the 
damage to the passengers door. It can deduct any amount it has already paid towards 
blending the paintwork on that door; and
6. Pay Mr A £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him if it hasnt already done so.
* Admiral should pay Mr A 8% simple interest on these payments from the date he incurred 
them until he gets it back. If it thinks its required to deduct income tax from this payment, it 
should give Mr A a certificate to show how much its deducted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman