DRN-2939035
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) unfairly declined a claim 
submitted under their critical illness policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of some key events here. 
Mr and Mrs W took out a critical illness policy in 2000. The policy offered a £26,000 lump 
sum benefit in the event either Mr or Mrs W were diagnosed with a listed critical illness 
during the policy term. 
Mr W suffered a heart attack in September 2020. He made a claim to Phoenix but was 
disappointed when this was declined on the grounds that his condition didnt meet the policy 
definition of heart attack. Mr W complained to Phoenix. 
Phoenix reviewed Mr Ws claim but maintained it didnt meet the policy definition of a heart 
attack, which states: 
4.2.3 Heart Attack
The death of a portion of the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply as 
evidenced by an episode of typical chest pain, new electrocardiograph changes and by the 
elevation of cardiac enzymes. The evidence must be consistent with the diagnosis of a heart 
attack. 
Phoenix referred to the results of tests Mr W had carried out at the point of his 
hospitalisation. It said there was no evidence of death of the heart muscle, ECG changes or 
raised enzymes that would be consistent with a heart attack. The chief medical officer 
considering the claim (who Ill refer to as Dr G) suggested that Mr W had most likely 
suffered from an episode of unstable angina, rather than a heart attack. Phoenix therefore 
rejected Mr Ws complaint and confirmed the claim would not be paid. 
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to our service. Mr W provided a second opinion from 
a consultant hed instructed through an online medical consultation company, who Ill refer to 
as Dr M. Dr M conducted a desk top review of Mr Ws medical records and confirmed that, 
in his opinion, Mr W had met the diagnostic criteria for a heart attack. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and felt Phoenix should have accepted Mr Ws 
claim on the strength of the available medical evidence. She was persuaded that the 
evidence from Mr Ws treating consultant, who Ill refer to as Dr T, who first diagnosed the 
heart attack, alongside the supporting evidence from Dr M, demonstrated that Mr W met the 
policy definition of a heart attack. She recommended that the claim therefore be paid, plus 
interest. She also recommended Phoenix pay Mr W £100 compensation. 
Phoenix disagreed with our investigators conclusions. Dr G maintained that Mr W didnt 
meet the policy definition of a heart attack. Specifically, he referred to the final part of the 
definition and said that the evidence was not consistent with the diagnosis of a heart attack. 
He suggested that Dr T and Dr M had not correctly applied the Fourth Universal Definition of 
Myocardial Infarction (2018) when reaching their conclusions. As there was no agreement, 
the case has been passed to me to consider for a final decision. 
I reviewed the case and agreed broadly with the conclusions our investigator had reached. 
But I thought the compensation needed to be increased. I thought Dr Gs suggestion that 
Mr W had been wrongly diagnosed had caused Mr W a significant amount of concern and 
worry. It also led him to seek a further medical opinion on his condition and questioned 
whether the medication hed been prescribed was appropriate. I wrote to Phoenix to explain 
why I thought the compensation should be increased to £400, as I thought that better 
reflected the considerable distress Mr W had suffered by having his claim wrongly declined. I 
invited Phoenix and Mr and Mrs W to respond with any further points they wanted me to 
consider before I issued a final decision. Neither party responded, despite being given 
additional time. As Ive been provided with no further information or comments, Ive reached 
my conclusions based on the information already held on file.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the similar conclusions to our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. I consider Phoenix should reasonably have accepted Mr Ws claim based on 
the weight of medical evidence. Im therefore upholding this complaint, Ill explain why. 
For a claim to be payable, there needs to be enough persuasive medical evidence to support 
that Mr W meets the definition of heart attack thats set out within the policy wording. 
When theres conflicting medical opinions, as there are in this case, I must reach my 
decision based on the weight of evidence and what I find most compelling. Its not my role to 
reach a medical conclusion, but rather to determine whether the policy definition has fairly 
and reasonably been met. Having carefully considered the available evidence Im satisfied, 
on the balance of probabilities, that it has. 
What evidence is there that Mr W suffered a heart attack?
The policy definition requires that Mr W suffered a heart attack as evidenced by typical 
chest pain, new electrocardiograph changes and by the elevation of cardiac enzymes. 
Unlike some newer policies, this definition does not require the heart attack to be of a 
specified severity, only that a heart attack occurred with the term of cover. But the definition 
does specify that the evidence must be consistent with a diagnosis of a heart attack. 
Its accepted by both sides that Mr W suffered typical chest pain in the days leading up to his 
hospital admission. When admitted to hospital he underwent an electrocardiograph (ECG) 
which showed minor changes. While I note theres some disagreement between Dr G and 
Dr M about exactly what changes were detected, I think the important factor is that theres 
agreement across the medical evidence that there were changes. Dr G has suggested that 
the changes werent consistent, in themselves, with a heart attack diagnosis, but Ill address 
this further below. 
The main area of dispute appears to concern whether Mr W experienced an elevation of 
cardiac enzymes. Mr Ws discharge letter confirms that he had a slight increase in his troponin blood tests. 
The records show that on admission Mr Ws troponin (a type of cardiac enzyme) level was 
51ng/L, it later rose to 58ng/L before falling to 3ng/L five days later. Overall, Im persuaded 
by the evidence that Mr W did experience an elevation of cardiac enzymes. 
Ive carefully considered Dr Gs comments around whether the change in Mr Ws readings 
could be considered an elevation from a clinical standpoint. Hes noted that an elevation 
in medical terminology means a rise above normal. He noted that 58ng/L was the upper 
limit of normal for the specific hospital laboratory where Mr Ws test was carried out, 
although hes not provided the evidence to support this. Dr G argued that Mr W had 
therefore not experienced an elevation in his cardiac enzymes, only a variation. 
While Ive taken account of Dr Gs comments, its important to note that the policy does not 
define whats meant by elevation. As our investigator has explained, the policy terms and 
conditions are set at the outset and form the basis of how any claim will be considered. So, it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to allow Phoenix to seek to alter or expand upon the definition 
at the point it assesses a claim. As such, the fairest interpretation is to use the everyday 
meaning of the words used. In the case of elevation, I consider a reasonable everyday 
meaning of the word is an increase in the level or amount of something. As such, the fact 
that Mr Ws troponin level increased from 51ng/L to 58ng/L is, to my mind, an elevation. Im 
therefore persuaded that Mr W met this part of the definition. 
Is the evidence consistent with the diagnosis of a heart attack?
While Dr G has raised several specific points on why he doesnt consider Mr W met the 
policy definition of heart attack, his overarching point is that the available evidence is not 
consistent with the diagnosis of a heart attack. Hes specifically referred to the FUDMI in 
support of his argument. Hes suggested that neither Dr T or Dr M have correctly applied the 
FUDMI, and so he believes theyve reached incorrect diagnoses. 
While I appreciate Dr G has a professional interest in the application of the FUDMI in clinical 
practice, its important to note that the policy definition does not require Mr W to meet the 
diagnostic criteria set out in it. I note that Dr G is of the opinion that anything that doesnt 
meet the FUDMI diagnostic criteria is therefore not consistent with a heart attack. But for the 
purposes of assessing this claim I disagree. I think its pertinent that two appropriately 
qualified medical professionals have reached a diagnosis of heart attack when presented 
with all the evidence Dr G considered. Im therefore persuaded that the evidence must be 
consistent with the diagnosis, otherwise presumably a different diagnosis wouldve been 
reached. Whether the consultants have applied the FUDMI correctly or not is largely 
irrelevant for the purposes of assessing this claim. 
And whilst Dr G may have a professional interest in seeing the diagnostic criteria applied 
more consistently within clinical practice, I think this is an issue best pursued outside the 
realms of claims assessment. I would also strongly question the decision by Dr G to suggest 
an alternative diagnosis to Mr W, that of unstable angina instead of heart attack, when his 
role was not that of a treating clinician. Understandably the suggestion that Mr W had been 
wrongly diagnosed was incredibly worrying for him and led to him questioning whether hed 
been prescribed the appropriate medication and how the condition would ultimately impact 
him on a day to day basis. It was as a result of Dr Gs suggested diagnosis of unstable 
angina that Mr W sought the opinion of Dr M. 
Has the policy definition been met?
I feel its important to restate that its not my role, or indeed that of our investigators, to reach 
a medical opinion in cases like this. Instead were required to carefully assess the available medical evidence to determine whether we think, on the balance of probabilities, the policy 
definition has been met. 
A large proportion of Dr Gs comments seek to question the medical opinions reached by 
Mr Ws treating consultant and Dr M. Im not appropriately qualified to challenge the medical 
opinions provided, nor would it be appropriate for me to do so. Instead Ive thought carefully 
about the opinions reached, and who has given them. Ive factored in what evidence they 
had available when reaching their conclusion and have considered if theres any reason that 
would lead me to discount their opinions. Having done so, Ive seen no reason to discount 
any of the opinions provided. Ive also considered which opinions I feel should be afforded 
most weight. 
As with most cases of this nature I consider the most weight should be attached to the 
treating consultants opinion, which in this case came from Dr T. While we dont have a 
detailed narrative from Dr T, or any commentary on the policy definition, we do have a clear 
diagnosis of NSTEMI (a type of heart attack) that follows a series of diagnostic tests. The 
tests carried out address the various parts of the policy definition. As the treating consultant 
is the medical professional whos had the closest, and most relevant interaction with Mr W, 
led the medical investigation and is ultimately responsible for his care, I think its reasonable 
that his opinion carries the most weight. 
Im satisfied that Dr Ms evidence carries reasonable weight, given his qualifications as a 
cardiologist. His opinion has also been clearly supported by reference to the available 
medical evidence throughout. But I have factored in that he was only able to carry out a 
desk-top review
I also think Dr Gs opinion carries reasonable weight. While I appreciate hes not a 
cardiologist, I am mindful of his experience through his long career and role as a CMO. Hes 
also provided a detailed explanation of why hes not persuaded Mr W meets the policy 
definition. But again, he's only been able to carry out a desk-top review of the evidence. 
This leaves me in the position where I have two persuasive medical opinions, which includes 
that of the treating consultant, suggesting that Mr W suffered a heart attack, against one 
persuasive medical opinion suggesting that he suffered unstable angina. As such, while I 
can see some aspects are finely balanced, Im persuaded the weight of evidence supports 
that Mr W does meet the policy definition of heart attack.
I appreciate that at the point Phoenix originally declined the claim it didnt have the additional 
evidence from Dr M, which I consider further supports Mr Ws claim. But, given the weight I 
think should reasonably have been placed on Dr Ts opinion, I dont think it was reasonable 
for Phoenix to decline the claim on the strength of Dr Gs opinion.  
I consider Phoenixs refusal to accept Mr Ws claim caused him considerable distress. As a 
result of Phoenixs actions, he was left questioning the reliability of his medical treatment and 
advice, which was no doubt very worrying. Given that Mr W felt compelled to seek out a 
third-party opinion and was left wondering if hed been mis-diagnosed, I agree he should be 
compensated for his distress and inconvenience. I consider £400 is reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Phoenix should now accept Mr Ws claim. It should also add 8% simple 
interest to the sum payable from the date it provided its original claims decision until the date 
it makes payment. It should also refund any premiums Mr and Mrs W have paid since the 
claim should have been accepted.  It should also pay £400 compensation. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Phoenix Life Limited must:   
Accept Mr Ws claim and pay him the sum assured plus interest, at a rate of 8% 
simple per annum (less tax properly deductible) from the date it declined his claim to 
the date of settlement. 
Refund any premium payments Mr and Mrs W have made since the claim was 
declined plus interest, at a rate of 8% simple per annum (less tax properly deductible) 
from the date each premium was collected to the date of settlement; plus
Pay Mr W £400 compensation for the inconvenience he experienced since his claim 
was declined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman