DRN-3888439
The complaint
Mr S complains that AWP P&C SA delayed in dealing with his claim under his Missed Event 
insurance, and deducted a handling fee that they shouldnt have
. 
What happened
Mr S booked tickets for events on 17 and 20 June 2022 and bought Missed Event insurance 
from AWP as part of his purchase. 
Unfortunately, Mr Ss father in law passed away on 16 June 2022 and so he was unable to 
attend either event.  
Mr S submitted claims for these missed events to AWP straight away, but he experienced 
some difficulty with the portal, and the claims were eventually submitted on 5 July 2022.  
An acknowledgement was sent to him the same day, but Mr S says that he had to keep 
chasing AWP as he heard nothing.  
Mr S complained about the delay and lack of contact on 2 August 2022. The first claim was 
then settled on 18 August and the second was paid on 23 August.   
  
In their final response AWP apologised or the delay, provided some explanation, and paid 
£25 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr S was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. She thought that AWPs offer was too 
low and recommended AWP refund the £2.75 handling fee that had been deducted and pay 
a further £150 for distress and inconvenience. Mr S accepted this, but AWP didnt respond, 
and so the case has come to me to review.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
I can see that AWP have accepted that the claim took longer to process than they would 
have liked, and have said that there was a high volume of claims and not enough staff. So 
Ive thought about whether the compensation offered fairy reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
AWP havent provided us with any specific explanation about what happened to cause the  
delay in this case, or sent copies of the claim notes, and so I have accepted Mr Ss account 
that he had no communication and was having to chase AWP to get this matter resolved. I 
note that no updates were provided by AWP at all.  
I can understand that in the aftermath of dealing with a bereavement, the added frustration 
caused by having to chase AWP to find out what was happening, will have added to the 
distress and inconvenience experienced, and I think that AWP could have provided a better 
service here given that they will have been aware of the circumstances of the claim. So I 
agree with the investigator that an additional award should be made.  
I can also see that the handling fee has been deducted from the second claim. No 
explanation has been provided for this deduction and it isnt in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, so this should also be refunded.    
I understand that Mr S is also unhappy with the way AWP have handled his complaint, and 
the delay in responding to it. However, complaints handling isnt a regulated activity and so I 
cant look into this aspect of his complaint.  
Putting things right
I think that AWP should pay an additional £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay and refund the £2.95 handling fee.  
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right as 
above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman