DRN-2622274
The complaint
Mr W says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr W took out the PPI alongside a mortgage in July 2003.
The policy was free for the first 12 months and then cost Mr W a monthly amount of £34.91. 
If Mr W was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant  the policy would have paid out 
£700 per month for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to let Mr W know the policy was optional and it had to get his consent before 
it set up the PPI. Mr W says he didnt know he had the policy, but Nationwide says Mr W 
chose to have PPI and its provided paperwork from the time of sale for me to consider.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ws mortgage application form dated 7 April 2003. The wording says 
its strongly recommended that customers protect their mortgage repayments in case of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. I think the way its worded makes it clear Mr W had a 
choice, particularly when considered alongside other insurances mentioned on the same 
application form. For example, buildings insurance is described as being essential rather 
than recommended. I can see that PPI was selected and Mr W signed the document, 
confirming that he understood and agreed to the information on it.
There is also a copy of Mr Ws Mortgage Product Confirmation Document, which under the 
heading Selected Product says, You have been given information on a specific product 
and have made your own decision from this. It goes on to set out some of the basic details 
of the PPI cover and Mr W signed this document on 9 April 2003, separately from his 
mortgage application. So, I think Mr W was aware he had a choice about taking the PPI and 
that he chose to take it at the time. Its understandable if Mr W doesnt recall this now  
17 years later.  
Nationwide says it didnt give Mr W any advice and I havent seen anything to suggest it did. 
That means Nationwide didnt have to check the policy was suitable for Mr W, but it did need 
to give him enough information about the PPI, so he could decide whether to take it or not. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I dont think better information about the PPI would have made a difference 
to Mr Ws decision to take the policy. I say this because Mr W was eligible for the policy and 
he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the things that might have made it harder 
for him to claim on the policy, such as having a pre-existing medical condition or unusual 
employment circumstances. And, in my experience, the premium wasnt excessive in 
comparison to similar policies available elsewhere.
The mortgage was secured against Mr Ws home and so the consequences of him not being 
able to keep up repayments could have been serious. The policy would have paid out in 
addition to any employee benefits Mr W had and potentially for longer. And while Mr W says 
his partner could have helped him to make his repayments, circumstances could change 
which means his partners help could not always be relied on. So, I think the policy could 
have been useful to Mr W if he fell on hard times.
Overall, I dont think Mr Ws PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman