DRN-3714364
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont provide a full and immediate refund of his 
direct debits as required under the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme.
What happened
Mr C contacted Barclays in October 2021 requesting refunds of all direct debit payments 
made to Company A since 2006. However, Barclays only processed one refund.
When Mr C complained to Barclays they apologised and offered him £50 compensation. 
However, Barclays said that they couldnt provide all the refunds until they had more 
information and Mr C completed a questionnaire.
Mr C is dissatisfied that he is being asked to follow Barclays process and complete a 
questionnaire. This is because he feels it goes against the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme 
which states he should receive full and immediate refunds.
Mr C complained to our service and our investigator didnt uphold his complaint as he 
thought Barclays request was fair and reasonable.
As Mr C remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
I first looked at the Direct Debit Guarantee and whilst this does say:
If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit, by the organisation or your bank or 
building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount paid from your 
bank or building society.
it is clearly intended to offer protection for direct debit administrative issues such as incorrect 
dates or wrong amounts. This is indicated in the guidance examples. Also, the guidance 
says:
It cannot be used to address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation.
As pointed out by the investigator, Mr C is requesting a significant number of refunds over 
many years which indicates a contractual issue. Also, the following information from Mr C 
shows that this clearly isnt about an administration error for which the protection is intended:
I informed them once I became aware of the law that there never existed a contract and 
thus I had wrongly been sending them monies over the years that if I was aware of I would 
not have done. Upon becoming aware of this I understood any payments made to them 
previously were in error and hence why I used the direct debit guarantee to reclaim the 
payments made in error.
So, I think it is fair and reasonable for Barclays to ask Mr C to follow a process which 
enables them to fully consider all the circumstances prior to issuing any further refunds.
I looked at Barclays initial error and I also agree they have dealt with this in a fair and 
reasonable way.
So, considering all the above I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman