DRN-2572682
The complaint
Mrs N has complained about the condition of her car after Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited arranged repairs to it.
 
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
An unknown individual smashed both the two front side windows on Mrs Ns car. Admiral 
arranged for a glass replacement company, acting as Admirals agents, to repair the car. It 
did so but she was unhappy with a number of aspects of the repairs and service and 
complained. Admiral didn't think it had done anything wrong. 
Mrs N brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think 
Admiral had dealt with Mrs N fairly. So she said it should: 
Reimburse Mrs N the cost of having the cars door cards refitted, which was £60, and 
add simple interest to that sum. 
Pay Mrs N £100 compensation to address her distress and inconvenience.
Admiral accepted our investigators assessment of the complaint. Mrs N didn't so its been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it in part. My award to put things right is the same as our 
investigator recommended. Ill explain my reasons for each point of Mrs Ns complaint below. 
Signing of a job sheet
After Mrs N complained about the condition of her car following the repair, she took it back to 
Admiral to inspect. Following that inspection Admirals technician completed a job sheet on 
an electronic device. That job sheet had a section for Mrs N to sign. But the technician didn't 
ask Mrs N to sign it but added a signature in that section himself without explaining what he 
was doing to Mrs N. Mrs N only saw the signature, which she knew wasnt hers, when 
Admiral later sent her a copy of the job sheet. 
I understand that at the time Admiral inspected Mrs Ns car, Covid 19 and its transmission 
between individuals was a massive concern. Around that time, most businesses, including 
Admiral, were reviewing their practices in order to keep their staff and customers safe. And, 
before the pandemic, Admiral would have asked Mrs N to add a digital signature to the job 
sheet. But, as passing items between its staff and customers presented a health threat  the 
possibility of transmitting Covid between them - Admiral was no longer asking its customers 
to physically handle and sign the job sheet. That seems perfectly reasonable in the 
circumstances.
So instead of asking Mrs N to sign the job sheet, Admirals technician has added a signature 
himself in the section reserved for Mrs Ns signature. If an entry in that section was required 
in order to complete the job sheet electronically then that seems a reasonable step to take. 
But I think Admiral should have explained what it was doing and why to Mrs N. Had it done 
so, its unlikely the rogue signature would have come as a shock or surprise to Mrs N when 
she received a copy of the job sheet. But Admiral hadn't told her what it was doing. So I can 
understand why Mrs N found seeing a signature purporting to be hers, but which clearly 
wasn't, upsetting. So this is something I've taken into account when I've awarded 
compensation below. That said, I don't think that Mrs N suffered any loss because of the 
rogue signature on the job sheet.
Mrs Ns said that Admiral has committed an offence punishable by law. But while I'm not 
sure what offence Mrs N believed Admiral has committed I need to make it clear that it's not 
my role to determine whether or not Admiral has committed any offence. Further, as were 
not the insurance industry regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is - its also not 
my role to fine or punish a business for any breach of rules or regulations. So I don't intend 
to make any finding on whether or not Admiral is in breach of a law or rules. 
Seatbelt and windscreen
Mrs N told Admiral that after the repair her seatbelt wouldn't buckle up as it had previously. 
But I haven't seen any evidence that Admiral had any cause to adjust or interfere with the 
seatbelt mechanism while carrying out the repairs to the side windows. So Im satisfied that 
this isn't an issue it needs to take responsibility for.
As well as replacing the side windows Admiral also replaced the windscreen wipers on 
Mrs Ns car. Mrs Ns said that, shortly after Admiral had repaired her car she noticed a chip 
in her windscreen which she believed Admiral might have caused when replacing the 
windscreen wipers. However, I note that Mrs N didn't identify this chip when she went to 
collect her car. And it's possible that the chip happened soon after the repair. So I don't think 
there's enough evidence to say that the chip was caused by Admiral. And for that reason I'm 
not going to ask it to take any further action on that point. 
Door handle
When repairing the drivers door window Admiral identified that a temporary repair had been 
previously carried out to the door handle mechanism. Admiral took a video at the time to 
show that a cable had been glued back into position but had come away when repairing the 
window. Admiral said it couldn't replicate that temporary repair and instead used a cable tie 
to allow Mrs N to open and close her door. 
Mrs N didn't think that was fair. She said her door handle was operating normally before 
Admirals repair. So she thinks Admiral should at least accept part of the responsibility for 
making the door handle work as normal again. But I don't think that would be fair.
In order to repair the window Admiral would be required to remove the door card (the door 
panel inside the car containing the door mechanisms, including the handle). And it seems 
likely that when its done so the previous temporary repair has come away. But while the 
temporary repair most likely only failed when Admiral started repairing the window, I don't 
think it would be fair to make Admiral responsible for the cost of a full repair.  Thats because the damage to the door handle mechanism was something that was there 
before Admiral repaired the window. The previous repair was a temporary one which almost 
certainly would have required a proper and permanent repair at some point. That would have 
been something Mrs N  or the people that carried out the temporary repair - would have 
been responsible for, not Admiral. So I don't think it would be fair to hold Admiral responsible 
for the damage to the door handle simply because the temporary repair failed when the car 
was with its repairers. Thats something that could have happened at any time. It follows that 
I'm not going to instruct Admiral to take any further action with regard to the door handle. 
Poorly fitting door panels
After the repair Mrs N said that the door panels had gaps between the panels and the car. 
And shes shown us photos of the car before and after the repairs which show that those 
gaps weren't there before the repairs. So I'm satisfied that those gaps only became apparent 
after the repairs. Further shes shown us evidence from a local garage that, when the door 
panels had been refitted there were some clips missing from inside the door that would hold 
the panels in place. And it looks like these missing clips were causing the gaps between the 
panels. The local garage refitted the missing parts and the door panels now fit as they did 
before Admiral repaired the car.
Its not in dispute that Admiral would have removed the door panels when fitting the new 
windows. So it seems that the gaps were most likely caused when Admiral completed its 
repairs. In those circumstances I think it's fair that Admiral reimburses Mrs N the £60 she 
paid to correct the gaps. Admiral should add simple interest to that sum as set out below.
Compensation
As Ive said above, I think Admiral should have explained to Mrs N why it was adding a 
signature to its job sheet. And I can understand that Mrs N was upset when she found out 
that Admiral had added what was supposed to be her own signature without telling her what 
it was doing or why. But, her upset aside, I don't think this caused any loss or other 
detriment to Mrs N. Further Admiral shouldn't have returned the car to her with gaps 
between the door panels and the car. And this clearly caused some concerns for Mrs N 
which she had to put right herself. So to address Mrs Ns distress and inconvenience 
resulting from these issues I think Admiral should pay her £100 compensation. I think that 
sum is fair and reasonable in the circumstances as it's in line with awards we make in other 
cases of similar seriousness.     
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Reimburse Mrs N the £60 cost of having the door panels refitted. It should add 
simple interest to that sum, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date Mrs N paid for the 
repair to the date Admiral reimburses her. 
Pay Mrs N £100 compensation to address her distress and inconvenience.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman