DRN-2899548
The complaint
Mr B complains about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) increasing premiums on his motor 
insurance policy following an accident.
References to UKI include its agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr B was involved in a collision with a van while reversing out of his 
property. Both vehicles sustained minor damage. Mr B contacted UKI to tell them about the 
accident. As the damage to his vehicle was minor, Mr B said that he didnt want to make a 
claim for the damage. Mr B also said he didnt consider he was at fault for the accident.
 
Mr B didnt hear any more about the incident until two months later when he received the 
renewal notice for his policy, which included a significant increase in premium. Mr B 
contacted UKI and was told it was due to the accident he was involved with. Mr B was 
unhappy at the increase in premium and hadnt been told by UKI that the other party had 
lodged a claim following the accident.
UKI considered Mr Bs complaint. In their final response letter they acknowledged that when 
Mr B contacted them to report the accident they should have been clearer they would keep 
the incident open for 90 days in case a claim was received from the other party. UKI also 
acknowledged that while they normally wouldnt tell a policyholder if a claim was received by 
the other party, in Mr Bs case he was led to believe that he would be informed were this to 
happen. UKI offered Mr B £120 in compensation for any upset and inconvenience. On 
liability for the accident, UKI said that theyd used what Mr B told them about the incident 
when he contacted them, together with the other partys version of events, and concluded 
that Mr B was at fault. UKI added that they maintained that decision and Mr Bs no claims 
discount (NCD) would still have been affected had the liability been split.
Mr B was unhappy at UKIs response and complained to this service. The main elements of 
his complaint were that his NCD had been affected and his premium increased significantly 
and would be likely to be affected in the future. While offered compensation by UKI, he 
wanted UKI to acknowledge that he hadnt had the opportunity to provide his version of the 
accident when they received the claim from the other party. Mr B also wanted UKI to record 
the accident as no fault against him.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that UKI had handled the claim 
[from the other party] fairly and had considered the information they had about the accident 
from Mr B and from the other party. The investigator also noted that UKI had, under the 
terms of the policy, the right to handle claims and settle them, including those from third 
parties. The investigator noted that UKI had offered Mr B £120 in compensation for not being 
sufficiently clear in the initial call when Mr B reported the accident, but concluded that even 
had they been clearer it wouldnt have affected their decision to settle the third party claim 
and record it as a fault claim against Mr B
.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In asking for a review Mr B restated his unhappiness at UKI not contacting him 
about the third party claim and settling it, as well as recording it as a fault claim against him. 
Mr B didnt think UKI had considered the third party claim fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Mr B.
Mr Bs complaint covers several issues, including the way UKI considered and settled the 
third party claim, recording it as a fault claim against him. Also that they didnt contact him 
about the claim as he asked them to, nor ask for the evidence (photographs) he had offered 
to provide. He is also unhappy at the impact of a fault claim on his NCD and his premiums.
On the first of these issues, Ive considered carefully the evidence and representations made 
by both Mr B and UKI. Ive also listened to the call Mr B made to tell UKI about the accident. 
Its clear that Mr B described the circumstances of the accident and what happened. Its also 
clear that UKI took down this information as well as asking about whether there were any 
witnesses or CCTV footage. While we are not claims assessors and so arent able to decide 
who may be at fault, its obvious that Mr B and the third party had differing views of the 
accident. Its also evident from what UKI have told us that they considered both versions of 
the accident and reached a conclusion about fault, based on the nature of the accident. Ive 
concluded that they acted reasonably, based on the evidence available to them. 
The second element of Mr Bs complaint is that UKI didnt contact him about the third party 
claim as he had asked them to do. Nor that they asked for the further evidence 
(photographs) that he offered to provide. Ive noted that UKI, in their final response letter, 
have acknowledged that they could have been clearer in the call with Mr B and they offered 
Mr B £120 in respect of this. While the call does cover the possibility of a third party claim 
being received (and that UKI would assess it) I agree that UKI could have been clearer 
about the timeframe within which they would consider such a claim. And while I understand 
that Mr T is unhappy that he wasnt contacted about the claim when it was subsequently 
received, even had they done so, I dont think it would have changed UKIs conclusion about 
fault for the accident given the detailed description of what happened from Mr B in the call. In 
the circumstances, Ive concluded that UKIs offer of £120 was reasonable.
On the question of the impact of the accident being recorded as a fault claim, Ive noted from 
the call Mr B made to UKI reporting the accident that UKI said that if there was a third party 
claim and UKI considered it a fault or split fault against Mr B it would affect his NCD. The 
impact of a claim on NCD is also set out in the policy booklet of Mr Bs policy. Ive also seen 
the underwriting information from UKI showing the increase in risk from the fault claim. 
Taking these points together, Ive concluded that UKI didnt act unreasonably when taking 
account of the fault claim in determining his premium when his policy came up for renewal.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman