DRN-2799253
The complaint
Mrs R says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for 
her mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000. It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. Mrs R applied for the PPI in branch.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Lloyds didnt respond to the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case. 
I think Mrs Rs PPI policy was mis-sold here, and Ill explain why.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs R, so it had to check the policy was right for her. It also 
had to give her information about the policy that was clear, fair, and not misleading. But 
I dont think the policy was right for Mrs R, and I cant see that Lloyds gave her clear enough 
information about its key exclusions.
Mrs R had a medical condition at the time, which would not have been covered. The 
condition was one which had been causing her persistent issues, for which shed had to 
repeatedly seek medical advice in the run-up to the sale. And it was a condition which had 
potentially serious consequences.
So I think this condition would have mattered to Mrs R. Indeed, she might have considered it 
to be the most likely one to cause her to take time off work in the near future. But she was 
not covered if she did, despite paying for a policy to cover time off sick. So the PPI didnt 
cover Mrs R for everything she mightve reasonably expected it to. 
Indeed, the following year, Mrs R suffered significant complications and had to have a 
serious procedure for her condition  causing her to take months off work. But when she 
tried to claim, Lloyds turned her down as her condition was pre-existing.
So I dont think the recommendation for PPI was right for Mrs R in her circumstances. And 
I cant see that Lloyds gave her clear enough information about the policys main exclusions. 
I think that if Lloyds had given Mrs R suitable advice and clear enough information about the 
PPI, then its most likely she would not have bought it. So I think its most likely that this 
policy was mis-sold.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC should put Mrs R in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out the 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Lloyds should:
Pay Mrs R back the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. Mrs R can claim 
back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman