DRN-3336626
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct havent refunded 
money they lost as a result of a scam.
Mrs G is the lead complainant to this service, so Ill refer to her throughout the decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In November 2018 Mrs G was looking into investment opportunities to help get her daughter 
a property. She was browsing social media when she came across an investment 
advertisement with a merchant, Ill refer to as A, which was endorsed by well-known 
celebrities. Due to the status of the celebrities she saw no reason to think it was a scam. 
From November 2018 to September 2019 Mrs G then sent a total amount of around £16,000 
(including fees) via her debit card to A. Mrs G did receive one credit from A for around £414 
including fees. After losing her money she contacted the police and then First Direct to see if 
it could return her money. 
First Direct considered the claim but said it couldnt raise a chargeback for the payments 
unless Mrs G provided more information that showed she had attempted to withdraw her 
remaining funds and the available balance at the time the request was made. 
Mrs G then brought her complaint to this service. She said the payments were out of 
character for her account, so she thought First Direct shouldve done more here.  
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She said Mrs G didnt have the 
necessary evidence to raise a successful chargeback. But she said that First Directs system 
notes show there was a fraud detection in November 2018 when the first payment to A was 
made and Mrs G was asked to call First Direct to release it. After listening to that call, the 
investigator said First Direct shouldve done more to warn Mrs G about fraud and scams, 
and if it had, she wouldnt have continued with the transaction and the scam wouldve been 
prevented. 
First Direct disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. It said its automated system 
generated a call to see if the transaction was genuine and that the bank cant be considered 
investment advisors. It said there was no FCA warning about A at the time and Mrs G failed 
to undertake due diligence before sending the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It is common ground that Mrs G authorised the scam payments of around £16,000. I accept 
that these were authorised payments even though Mrs G was the victim of a scam. So, 
although it wasnt her intention to pay money to the scammers, under the relevant 
regulations and the terms of her account, Mrs G is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for First Direct to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Chargeback
The investigator has already set out what criteria is needed to attempt a chargeback, so I 
wont repeat that here. But essentially, the chargeback process is voluntary and run by the 
card scheme whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and 
customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is 
subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback 
can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the 
card scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. First Direct) 
acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on 
behalf of Mrs G.
In order for chargeback claims to succeed, very specific evidence of Mrs Gs available 
balance and that a withdrawal of an available balance had been attempted the same day 
would have been required. But Mrs G didnt have this evidence, so she didnt meet this 
criteria. 
So, I cant say First Direct treated Mrs G unfairly by not raising a chargeback here. 
Should First Direct have done more to warn Mrs G when she made the payments
Here First Direct considered the first payment sufficiently unusual to block her card and 
asked Mrs G to call it before releasing the block. So, Ive gone on to consider whether First 
Direct did enough to ask Mrs G about why she was making the payments and whether it 
shouldve provided a clear fraud and scams warning. 
First Direct says it doesnt provide investment advice and Mrs G willingly made the 
payments, so it didnt treat Mrs G unfairly by not providing a clear fraud and scams warning. 
Ive listened to the call Mrs G had with First Direct. It explained to her on the very short call 
that it was checking it was her making the payment and confirmed the amount she was 
trying to send. There were no further questions about the payment or why Mrs G was 
making it. When Mrs G asked if First Direct needed anything else from her she was told no. 
I understand that under the Payments Services Regulations First Direct is required to 
process payments which have been authorised as swiftly as possible. But I dont agree this 
means it shouldnt ask probing questions about why the payment is being sent and give 
clear fraud warnings to its customers, if a potential fraud or scam is suspected. Here Mrs G saw an advert on-line endorsed by various celebrities with one of those 
celebrities taking legal action against a social media platform in April 2018 (before this scam 
started). So, if First Direct had asked a few probing questions about why the payment was 
being made and how Mrs G had come across A, Im satisfied she wouldve mentioned the 
celebrities and the advert on social media. And I think its reasonable for someone at First 
Direct, checking potential fraudulent transactions, to be aware that this was a common type 
of scam. 
So, I think all the above information shouldve been enough for First Direct to provide a clear 
scam warning and that what Mrs G was doing sounded like a typical scam the bank wouldve 
been aware of. And it shouldve invited Mrs G to go and check that A was actually regulated 
as required at the time by the FCA. 
Causation
Im satisfied that if First Direct had provided a fraud and scams warning to Mrs G, along the 
lines Ive set out above, she wouldnt have continued with the scam. Mrs G was investing the 
money to help her daughter and made the payments because one of the celebrities was 
regularly on the television and internet providing advice about money matters. So, Im 
satisfied, a clear warning about celebrity backed investments likely being a scam and asking 
her to check whether A was regulated wouldve more than likely stopped her from continuing 
here. 
Contributory negligence 
In this case, I dont think that Mrs G was to blame for what happened. That is, she did not 
foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm. I dont think Mrs G couldve foreseen the 
risk that the company she was dealing with was a scam as she had no investment 
experience. And scammers are often well versed in persuading customers such as Mrs G to 
invest in what they think is a legitimate company through the use of persuasive language. 
And whilst in hindsight it might seem easier to identify such a scam, I dont think at the time 
Mrs G acted unreasonably here. Therefore, in the circumstances, I do not think it would be 
fair to reduce compensation on the basis that Mrs G should share blame for what happened.
Putting things right
I believe First Direct should refund Mrs G all the stolen payments totalling £16,005 which 
includes the transaction fees and the credit Mrs G received. As this was a current account, 
First Direct should add interest to that sum (less any tax properly deductible) at 8% simple 
interest per year from the respective dates of loss to the date of the refund.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as 
First Direct should pay Mr G and Mrs G the amount Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman