DRN-2052546
The complaint
Mr W complains about a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) he took out with Barclays 
Bank Plc (Barclays). He says the value of his investment has fallen dramatically and he 
says this is due to management charges, which he says are 5% per year and which were 
hidden from him. He says the fund he invested in was not suitable to be held within a SIPP, 
and ownership and management of the fund changed without proper reference to him and 
other investors. 
 
What happened
Mr W says he took out a SIPP through Barclays around 20 years ago. About eight years 
ago, he decided he wanted to invest in commodities and so he looked for a fund that allowed 
him to invest in commodities through his SIPP. He found only one fund that allowed him to 
investment in commodities and made the investment.
In October 2019 he received a Consolidated Statement and Valuation. It was at this point 
that Mr W indicates he first became aware of the size of the fees and charges that were 
deducted from his investment. He thought the statement showed that he was paying around 
1.25% of the value of his investment, per quarter, in fees and charges. As hes held the 
investment for eight years, he says hes been charged 40% of the value of his investment.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said it was Mr Ws decision to invest in this fund 
and he had done so without Barclays advice. It was Mr Ws responsibility to decide if the 
investment was suitable for him and to look into the fees and charges that would apply to his 
investment. It was only recently that it was required to provide details of the costs and 
charges associated with this investment. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us and it was considered by an investigator, who didnt uphold 
it. She didnt find any evidence to suggest the investment fund was inherently unsuitable for 
investments held within a SIPP. The investment was made by Mr W on an execution-only 
basis, where he made the decision to invest without advice from Barclays. She asked Mr W 
for evidence to show the level of fees and charges he claimed hed paid, but he did not 
provide it. She said she couldnt see any evidence that the fees and charges were as high as 
5%. She didnt think the fees and charges were extortionate and it was Mr Ws responsibility 
to ensure he was happy with the investment. She didnt think it was Barclays responsibility 
to notify Mr W of any change in the ownership or management of the fund provider.
Mr W didnt agree. He said this wasnt a fair outcome for him, having paid 5% of the value of 
his investment each year without the level of charges having been disclosed. He maintained 
that it wasnt suitable to be held within a SIPP. He asked if the investigator had obtained 
details of the full fees and charges incurred over the whole term of the investment. He said 
the October 2019 statement showed fees and charges of 1.25% for that quarter and 
therefore it was reasonable to conclude the fees and charges amounted to 5% per year. 
The investigator maintained that the available evidence showed that the fees and charges 
were not 5% per year, but 1.24% and as no agreement could be reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws complaint really stems from his belief he has been paying various fees and charges 
for his investment that amount to 5% of the fund value per year. I can understand why he 
might think this, but it seems clear that the charges are much lower. 
The Consolidated Statement and Valuation dated 27 October 2019 says it is a statement 
covering the period 26 July to 25 October 2019. It says (on page 9) that the total costs and 
charges are 1.24%. 
Mr W appears to have rounded this figure up to 1.25%. He thinks its charged quarterly so 
hes multiplied by four to get to 5% per year and then multiplied that by 8 years to get to 
40%. But the wording directly above the table of fees and charges, on page 9, says it shows 
the total costs and charges as a cash amount and a percentage and this has been 
calculated to provide the annual impact. Barclays has included the annual fund charges from 
the fund provider, described as product costs  0.88%, as well as its annual service costs of 
0.36% to get the annual figure of 1.24%. 
It can be seen from the section of the statement headed Activity in the statement period for 
your SIPP account that the service costs shown on page 9 are an annual figure and not a 
quarterly figure. The breakdown of service costs table (also on page 9) shows costs 
amounting to £116.19 - £48 of which is the £4 per month minimum customer fee and the rest 
is made up from transaction costs of £68.19. The activity section, showing what hes actually 
been charged that quarter by Barclays, doesnt show £48 worth of charges for the quarter, it 
shows that £4 per month has been taken in minimum customer fees  a total of £12 for the 
quarter. I can also only see £6 of transaction costs in the activity section for the quarter. 
There are charges made during that quarter for the SIPP administration fee, but it is clear 
from the statement that they arent included in the annual service costs figure and are shown 
in the statement separately. So, it is clear from the statement that Mr W has not been 
charged 0.36% of the value of his fund in service costs for the quarter. I think its clear this 
must be an annual figure. The 0.88% Product costs figure is also an annual figure.
The annual SIPP administration fee is shown at £150 per year but isnt included in the 
percentage figures. If that was included, the total fees and charges would rise to around 
£550  more like 1.8% per year. I dont think total costs of that size are particularly unusual 
for specialist funds held within a SIPP.
I can understand Mr Ws confusion though. The last line of the statement says Cumulative 
effect of cost and charges on your investment return is: 1.24%. This is the impact of total 
costs on your portfolio returns, expressed as a percentage during this reporting period. If 
the period covered by the statement is 3 months, or a quarter, then that explains why he 
thinks hes been charged 5% per year. But, as explained, its clear from the quarterly 
statement that he hasnt been charged 5%.
I havent seen anything that leads me to conclude the fund was inherently unsuitable to be 
held as part of a SIPP. Barclays says it was an execution-only sale and Mr W also says it 
was his decision to invest in the fund, so it was up to him to decide whether it was a suitable 
investment for him. In any event, if hed had further detail of the charges, which dont appear 
out of the ordinary, I have no reason to think he wouldnt have invested. In terms of not being notified about the changes to the ownership and management of his 
investment fund, I dont consider that was Barclays responsibility. In any event Im not 
persuaded it has caused Mr W any detriment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Greg Barham
Ombudsman