DRN-2603571
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy as she feels Money and Me Claims Limited (Money and Me), pursued a 
claim she hadnt authorised them to represent her on. In addition to this, Mrs L disagrees 
with the success fee Money and Me has charged her for this claim.
What happened
Mrs L has explained that in January 2019 she decided to pursue a claim against a pension 
provider, who Ill call P, as she felt the advice it gave to move various pensions into a Self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) was wrong. Mrs L appointed Money and Me to represent 
her in pursuing the matter.
Mrs L said that when she agreed for Money and Me to represent her in January 2019, she 
was only agreeing to it pursuing a claim about the above pension provider  and not any 
other party. And that in October 2019, Money and Me let her know it had made a successful 
claim for her. Mrs L noted she was sent the funds Money and Me had gained for her  minus 
Money and Mes success fee. At that point, Mrs L has said she felt her dealings with Money 
and Me were over. So, she said she didnt expect it to carry out any further work for her in 
the future.
However, in Spring 2020, Mrs L said Money and Me contacted her, about recovering money 
from another firm, who Ill call D. And Mrs L has said that at this point, she told Money and 
Me that she didnt want it to pursue the matter on her behalf  because she wanted to wait 
and see if D went into liquidation. And she thought she would likely pursue the matter 
herself, rather than through a claims management company. So again, at that this point, Mrs 
L has said she didnt expect Money and Me carry out work on her behalf, or to contact her 
further. 
However, in September 2020, Money and Me contacted Mrs L, and let her know it had been 
successful in pursing her claim against D. And that it would send her the money awarded to 
her, minus its success fee of 25% plus VAT. This meant the success fee payable was 
£17,548.24. 
Mrs L was unhappy with this. She noted she hadnt authorised Money and Me to represent 
her and had told it so in a phone call in the previous spring. In addition to this, Mrs L said she 
didnt agree with the rate the success fee was being charged at, especially because she felt 
the service provided to her by Money and Me was poor, and not in line with the service 
standards it had agreed to. Given this, Mrs L raised a complaint about the matter.
Money and Me responded to this. It said Mrs L had provided it with authority to pursue a 
claim in relation to her whole SIPP, and funds within it (including D) when she first contacted 
it in 2019. And, it said it could find no record of Mrs L asking to cancel her agreement with it. 
Money and Me went on to note that it had told Mrs L, in October 2019, that the money it was 
sending to her in relation to her claim, was an interim payment. It said it did let Mrs L know 
that there was more work to be done in terms of the SIPP, including in reference to D. 
Money and Me also said it, and the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) had 
also made it clear in their communications, that the payment was an interim one. And that 
the work in relation to D, was part of the claim being pursued in relation to the SIPP. 
Mrs L didnt agree. She said Money and Me should have sought further authority from her to 
pursue funds in relation to D, and that she had told it she didnt require its services. In 
addition to this, Mrs L said the service she had been provided was poor, and Money and Me 
had been using an old email address to communicate with her  so any emails it had sent 
hadnt reached her.
Because Mrs L remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said she 
was satisfied Mrs L had provided Money and Me with authorisation to represent her in 
relation to the SIPP  and this included work in respect of D. 
Our investigator also noted it was made clear to Mrs L that the fee payable on successful 
claims, would be 25% plus VAT. So, she considered Money and Me had acted fairly when 
charging Mrs L this. And she said Money and Me had communicated with Mrs L reasonably 
 she couldnt hold it accountable for Mrs L not receiving emails, as Mrs L hadnt told Money 
and Me the email address provided was no longer valid.
Mrs L confirmed she didnt agree with our investigators view. Mrs L reiterated the points 
mentioned above, including that she had spoken to Money and Me and told it not to do 
anything in respect of D. And, she noted that she had suffered with a health condition, which 
meant, when Money and Me did call her, and she wasnt at home at the time, she wasnt 
able to fully take in what was said to her. 
As Mrs L remained dissatisfied, her complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I understand Mrs L feels 
strongly about this matter, and I appreciate why. Id like to reassure her, as above, I have 
considered all of the information she has provided, as well as the information provided by 
Money and Me, and thought carefully before arriving at my decision.
Money and Mes representation
As above, Mrs L has said that whilst she did authorise Money and Me to represent her 
initially  she didnt authorise it to work on her behalf, following the funds she received from 
in October 2019.
So, Ive reviewed the letter of authority, and terms of engagement supplied to me. Looking at 
these, I can see Mrs L signed the terms of engagement in January 2019, and the letter of 
authority in March 2019, giving her agreement to the details on these documents. The letter 
of authority notes that Mrs L gave Money and Me authority to act on her behalf in relation to 
her SIPP, and it provides details of the name of the pension provider used, who she felt gave 
wrong advice, and the SIPP provider her pension funds were transferred through. This letter 
of authority notes the authorisation was in respect of any and all pension policies.So, Im satisfied at this point, Mrs L had authorised Money and Me to represent her, in 
relation to any or all of the pension policies contained in the SIPP, advised by P and 
provided by this SIPP provider. 
Ive also seen the claim document, put together by Money and Me, in relation to the SIPP. 
And this shows that as part of the SIPP, funds were acquired with D. Given this was part of 
the SIPP Mrs L gave authorisation for Money and Me to act on her behalf with, I think Money 
and Me acted reasonably in pursuing this initially.
Mrs L has said later, in spring 2020, she told Money and Me she didnt want it to act on her 
half, in relation to D. And she has noted she told Money and Me this on the phone. So, Ive 
considered whether, at this point, Money and Me should have stopped representing Mrs L. 
And, based on the evidence provided to me, I dont think it should have.
The reason I say this, is I havent seen any firm evidence to show Mrs L did cancel Money 
and Mes agreement to represent her. Money and Me has provided a phone call recording 
from October 2019. Having listened to this, I can hear that Money and Me did tell Mrs L that 
there would be more funds to come from the claim, should D fail, and it had had it covered.
Money and Me also said during this call that it may take several months for Mrs L to hear 
anything further about D. Mrs L responded to the representative from Money and Me, and 
thanked the representative, noting this was great. Mrs L asked whether she needed to 
contact Money and Me later, and it was confirmed Mrs L didnt need to do anything more, it 
would keep an eye on the matter. So, given the letter of authority, and this phone call, I think 
Money and Me made it clear it was still acting for Mrs L as originally agreed. And there 
wasnt any suggestion Mrs L wanted to cancel the agreement here.
I understand Mrs L has said that because of her medical condition, she found it difficult to 
take in what was said on the above call. But I think that even if Mrs L didnt fully appreciate 
what was said in the above call, the other dealings she had with Money and Me had made 
the position clear. Mrs L has signed letters of authority, and Money and Me and the FSCS 
had told Mrs L that the previous payment was an interim one for the whole SIPP. So, Im 
satisfied Money and Me acted fairly in continuing to progress Mrs Ls claim.
Money and Me has said it doesnt have a call recording from spring 2020, or any call 
recording which shows Mrs L asked for the agreement to be cancelled. I note Mrs L did try to 
get call information from the phone she was called on, and this wasnt successful. But I dont 
think this would give me details of the conversation had anyway  so I dont think this would 
alter the outcome on this complaint. 
And in any event, the terms of business Mrs L signed initially, do highlight that cancellation 
would need to be sent to Money and Me in writing  and neither party has shown evidence 
that this is what Mrs L did.  
Ultimately, Mrs L asked Money and Me to look into the SIPP, and this included funds 
acquired with D. Money and Me were provided with authorisation to look into this, and I cant 
see it received notification in writing of Mrs L wanting to cancel the agreement already made. 
Because of this, Im satisfied Money and Me has acted fairly in pursuing the claim on Mrs Ls 
behalf.
Fee charged by Money and MeMrs L doesnt feel the fee being charged by Money and Me in this instance is fair. Ive looked 
the terms of engagement Mrs L signed, to see what details were provided on the fees to be 
charged. And, I do think the fee payable for a successful claim was made clear. The terms of 
engagement do note the success fee would be 25% plus VAT. And this is what Money and 
Me has charged Mrs L.
Mrs Ls claim in relation to the SIPP was successful, and she has been issued with three 
payment for this, as a result of the claim, and with Money and Me acting on her behalf. With 
that in mind, Im satisfied the fees Money and Me has charged are fair and reasonable. So, I 
wont be requiring Money and Me to alter this.
Level of service
Mrs L has said the level of service provided to her was poor. She has highlighted that this 
includes a lack of communication from Money and Me, and that on some occasions when it 
did contact her, she said it did so via an email address that was no longer valid. 
So, Ive looked into the service provided here. And I dont think Money and Me acted 
unreasonably. I can see that when Mrs L initially raised her claim, Money and Me were 
regularly updating Mrs L. There was communication between Mrs L and Money and Me 
almost every month. And in October 2019, Money and Me did tell Mrs L it was still pursuing 
matters, but that it might be several months before she heard from it again  in relation to D.
When Money and Me did have further information to provide Mrs L  in June 2020, it did 
email her with information  providing updates. Mrs L has said she didnt get these 
communications, because the information was sent to an email address that was no longer 
valid. However, I can see this was the email address Mrs L had provided Money and Me 
when she initially appointed it, and I cant see anything to say she told Money and Me her 
email address had changed.
Mrs L has said Money and Me had also emailed her on her work address before, and so it 
should have known to contact her there. But I dont think it was unreasonable for it to contact 
Mrs L on the email address she had specified. It wouldnt know whether the work email 
address was still relevant  and it had had no reason to believe the emails it had sent to the 
address it had not been received and read. 
Given this, I dont think the service provided by Money and Me was unfair, or different to 
what I would have expected. 
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Money and Me Claims Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman