DRN-3368831
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain on behalf of their business that Lloyds Bank PLC misled the 
business about their willingness to provide refinancing, and this resulted in substantial costs 
being incurred.   
What happened
Mrs D and Mr D are partners in a family farming business. Although the complaint is from 
both of them, I will refer to Mrs D throughout as she is the lead complainant. 
There were originally four partners, and they held regular management meetings at the farm 
with the Lloyds relationship manager (RM), and the farms business adviser. 
Mrs D says that over the period that the business was banking with Lloyds, from 2013 
onwards various promises were made by the RM about what borrowing was available to 
them. They were advised that they would be able to convert all their existing finance to 
interest only, which was then retracted and ultimately the farm had to refinance with another 
bank.  
Mrs D says that during this time the farm incurred expense in terms of overdraft fees, that 
there was significant cost in refinancing, and there were delays caused by Lloyds failing to 
provide documents for the refinance when asked, which resulted in further overdraft 
extensions and further fees. 
Following the move, Mrs D and her representative complained on behalf of the business that 
the customer service provided by the RM was poor and had cost the business extra money.  
They requested compensation of £40000 for a number of fallings including:
The last minute refusal finance a new house build
The cost of two additional business plans
Extra renewal fees because Mrs D had to keep paying for an overdraft as the 
refinancing had not taken place a promised
Distress and inconvenience
The cost of re-banking elsewhere  
Lloyds Bank provided a final response on 7 August 2019 and offered £500 in respect of the 
poor service provided by their RM, distress and inconvenience, and the delay in responding. 
They felt that looking at their records, they helped as much as they could and there would 
have been a reason for not being able to lend to her. They apologised for sending the 
incorrect details on the loans. As the RM no longer worked at Lloyds, they were unable to 
confirm or deny what had happened but apologised for it.  
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Ds complaint and decided that Lloyds offer was 
fair. 
Mrs D disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint which I have summarised below.
I couldnt look at whether or not Lloyds should have loaned the money, as lending is a 
commercial decision and not one that I have the power to change. However, I did look at 
whether Lloyds followed their own application process fairly, and whether they misled Mrs D 
and the business about whether they would lend to them, and whether they acted fairly in 
the way that they dealt with Mrs D.  
I was provided with documents by the farms business adviser and also all the records held 
by Lloyds bank from their business file, including all the lending applications that were made. 
I considered all of this as well as the testimony of both Mrs D and the farms business 
adviser. 
I thought that:  
in respect of the refusal to finance the house build, I didnt think Lloyds had acted 
unfairly. Whilst initial discussions about financing the build did take place, Mrs D was 
aware that she hadnt signed any documents relating to a separate offer of finance 
for the build, and Lloyds were within their rights to pull away from this once the 
financial position changed. 
in respect of the cost of the additional business plans and the overdraft renewal fees, 
I thought that the evidence showed that Lloyds led Mrs D to believe that financing on 
the terms she wanted would be available. There was therefore a period of time in 
which she incurred fees for an overdraft which may have been avoided if the decision 
not to fund the farm had been communicated sooner and so I thought it was fair for 
Lloyds to refund some of these fees.  
In addition, I have also looked at the overall repayments for the period June 2018  
August 2019 because the increasing overall cost of meeting these payments each 
month. The pressure it was putting on the business was the reason Mrs D was 
seeking refinancing.  
Had they moved to the new loan structure earlier, the monthly repayment savings 
would have been around £2000 less per month, with no escalating overdraft and less 
pressure on Mrs D. Whilst there is no financial loss here because all the repayments 
were reducing the loans, I have considered the pressure that it placed on Mrs D 
below.  
I consider that Lloyds customer service fell far short of the standard that Mrs D was 
entitled to expect from a business RM who was supposed to be specialised in 
farming and agriculture and was there to support her. Mrs D has described the 
uncertainty and stress that she and her partners experienced during the period June 
2018  August 2019, and this was as a direct result of the actions, or inactions of the 
RM. 
I also think that although the cost of borrowing between June 2018 and August 2019 
was no more than it was when the refinance was done, Mrs D and her partners were 
put under unnecessary pressure for a period of 14 months by having to find the extra 
£2000 per month in loan repayments which would not have been the case if they had 
been able to refinance earlier. 
In view of my findings, I proposed to uphold Mrs Ds complaint and award: Reimbursement of the overdraft fees between June 2018 - August 2019
£1500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the relationship managers poor 
management of their banking 
8% simple interest from the date the overdraft fees were deducted to the date of 
settlement. If Lloyds Bank PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D and Mrs D how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr D and Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if  they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Mrs D and Lloyds a copy of my full provisional decision. After further correspondence 
with both parties, Lloyds have made an offer which I consider is fair in the circumstances 
and so Im making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above and 
recommending the revised redress below. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I direct that Lloyds should do the following:
Reimburse the overdraft fees between April 2018 - August 2019 totalling £5850
Pay 8% simple interest from the date the overdraft fees were deducted to the date
of settlement. If Lloyds Bank PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D and Mrs D how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr D and Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if 
they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate
Pay £1500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the relationship managers 
poor management of their banking.
My final decision
My decision is that I am upholding Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint and directing Lloyds Bank 
PLC to undertake the actions above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman