DRN-1884354
The complaint
Ms I has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC allowed unauthorised payments to leave her 
account and provided a poor service.
What happened
Ms I has raised several complaints about the service she received from Lloyds.
Ms I reported her debit card as damaged. She later called the bank to complain that an ATM 
had retained the card. Lloyds dispatched a replacement card, but it didnt work. She called 
the bank again.
Lloyds confirmed that it had cancelled the card, in error, which was why she couldnt use it. 
A second replacement card was issued.  Lloyds advised that no-one would be able to use 
the first replacement card.
In addition, Ms I complained that Lloyds had allowed unauthorised transactions to leave her 
account. She said she didnt recognise:
a payment on 29 July 2019 for £39.34
regular payments to an internet service provider
She was also unhappy that Lloyds told her she had a mortgage when she hadnt and that 
she could only close her account by attending a local branch or by phone. She said there are 
no local branches where she lives and it would be time consuming to close the account on 
the phone.
She asked Lloyds to refund the unauthorised transactions and pay her £200 compensation.
Lloyds offered £65 compensation for sending her a debit card which didnt work. However, it 
credited her account with £165 in error. It allowed her to keep the money.
However, it refused to refund the disputed transactions. It said the payment for £39.34 was 
made to a holiday rental company. It was made with the new replacement card. The 
payments to the internet service provider were made under a continuous payment authority 
(CPA) which she must have set up. However, it cancelled the CPA and advised her to 
contact the merchant directly to stop future payments going through.
It also advised that Ms I could close her account by writing to it. It provided an address for 
her to write to. And lastly, it said it couldnt find any record of it telling her she had a 
mortgage with it.
Ms I wasnt happy with Lloyds decision, so she asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint, but he didnt uphold it. In summary, he considered 
that she had authorised the disputed payments and that Lloyds had resolved her complaints. 
He concluded that the sum of £165 was a fair and reasonable sum for her trouble and upset.Ms I disagreed with the investigators view. She was disappointed that Lloyds said it cant 
stop payments made under the CPA even though she hasnt authorised them and she didnt 
think she should waste her time asking for refunds. She says if Lloyds doesnt stop the 
payments then she risks being declared bankrupt.
She is asking for £200 compensation.
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Im afraid I dont have good news for Ms I. Having reviewed the evidence, Ive reached the 
same overall conclusions as those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Disputed transactions
In short, Lloyds is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). So, my primary concern is to come to a view about whether I think Ms I authorised 
the payment.
Ms I didnt pursue the payment to the holiday rental company after Lloyds responded to her 
complaint. Im satisfied she accepts she authorised that payment.
Im also satisfied that the CPA payments were authorised because to set up the CPA she 
must have given the merchant her card details. So, Lloyds are not obliged to refund any 
payments which she made before she asked it to cancel the CPA.
Continuous Payment Authority
Under the PSRs 2017, if a customer tells their card provider in advance that they don't want 
a payment to go through, then the card provider should stop it. If the card provider lets a 
payment go through after cancellation, then the payment should be treated as unauthorised.
I should also make it clear that Ms I isnt obliged to contact the merchant. She only needs to 
ask Lloyds to cancel the CPA.
Lloyds wrote to Ms I on 13 August 2019 and again on 8 October 2019 confirming it had 
cancelled the CPA to the internet service provider. Ms I said payments continue to leave her 
account, but she hasnt provided any proof. The statements we have on file end at 2 August 
2019. I have no evidence that the payments are continuing.
Ive noticed that, in recent months, Ms I has referred to payments to another merchant  a 
website provider. Ive looked at the statements and I can see regular payments to this 
merchant. Ms I said she wrote to Lloyds about these payments, but I havent seen a copy of her letter. 
The investigator thought Lloyds had responded and he referred Ms I to a letter dated 13 
February 2020. However, that isnt a response to the payments to the website provider. Its a 
response to her original complaint. 
I think wires have been crossed here. I think Lloyds believes shes still complaining about the 
CPA to the internet service provider while Ms I thinks Lloyds has cancelled the payments to 
the website provider, but payments are still going through.
It seems to me that Ms Is complaint about the payments to the website provider hasnt been 
addressed. As I dont have any proof of when she first raised it with Lloyds, I cant even say 
that Lloyds knows about it. Without further information, I'm unable to make any decision on 
this part of her complaint. Ms I will need to raise a separate complaint to Lloyds which 
relates to this merchant.
In relation to the CPA to the internet service provider, I have no evidence there were further 
payments after 31 July 2019 but if there were, then I would expect Lloyds to refund the 
payments. And Lloyds has confirmed that it will do so. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds has cancelled the CPA and that it will refund any payments made 
after the cancellation although theres no evidence that any have been made.
Poor service
Lloyds acknowledged it had provided Ms I with a poor service when it cancelled the first 
replacement card, but it responded quickly to the situation and issued another card. I think 
its compensation payment of £165 is a fair and reasonable sum for her trouble and upset. I 
wont be asking Lloyds to pay anything more.
Ive not seen any evidence that Lloyds told Ms I that she had a mortgage with it. Im afraid 
its Ms Is responsibility to provide any evidence she has which supports her complaint.
Ive also seen Lloyds letter advising her she may close her account in writing. Im satisfied 
that this part of her complaint is now resolved.
Im sorry this isnt the outcome Ms I was expecting but I hope the reasons for my decision 
are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman