DRN-2780686
The complaint
Mr T complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) has limited his account with it 
unfairly. And as a result of an IT issue he hasnt been able to access his PayPal credit 
account to make payments. This has resulted in fees and charges being added to his 
account which he complains are unfair.  
What happened
Mr T has a PayPal account which he uses as his payment account when buying and 
selling goods online. In January 2020, PayPal limited the account; requesting 
photographic ID and invoice information to enable the limit to be lifted. Mr T didnt 
respond to the requests for information and so the limitation has remained in place.
He also has a PayPal credit account. Both this and the aforementioned account are 
accessed through the same login. Mr T made payments to his credit account in January, 
February and April 2020. But he says when he tried to log on to make a payment in May 
2020, he was unable to. He asked for his account to be reset but that hasnt happened. 
He tried to contact PayPal but telephone numbers he was provided with werent working 
or didnt connect.
He did speak with collections about his account just prior to it defaulting in August 2020. 
However, at this time Mr T wasnt in a position to make a payment on the account. And 
when he requested the interest and charges to be removed from his balance, he was told 
this wasnt possible. As he didnt think he should pay any interest or charges Mr T didnt 
make any payments towards the outstanding balance and his PayPal credit account 
became subject to its own limitation in September 2020. Subsequently his account was 
passed to an external collections company.
Mr T complained about what had happened and asked us to look into the matter. Our 
investigator accepted what Mr T had said at face value about not being able to get 
through to PayPal and so she asked it if it would be willing to waive the fees and 
charges. It didnt think it had done anything wrong but agreed as a gesture of goodwill to 
waive the late payment fees and interest on the account  totalling £43.46. The 
investigator thought this was fair as there wasnt any evidence that a limitation on the 
PayPal account had affected Mr Ts ability to log on and make repayments towards his 
PayPal credit account. She also found that Mr T ought to have continued making 
payment towards the credit balance and felt PayPal had treated him fairly by offering to 
come to a payment arrangement.
Mr T asked for the matter to be reviewed. In summary, he said:
There was an IT issue that prevented him from accessing his account from May 
2020 and that was why he couldnt make payments.
The numbers he was provided with werent connecting.
He disagrees he should have made payments to the balance, when the balance 
included interest and charges which he didnt think he should pay. He was told 
these couldnt be removed. But PayPay is now saying it can which it could have 
done much sooner.
He has caring responsibilities and is of the view PayPal could and should 
have provided more appropriate assistance to him. But it made the 
problem worse by providing incorrect contact information.
He doesnt wish to provide ID to remove the limit from his PayPal account and 
wants access to the refund that was paid into the account in October 2020.
Since the matter was referred to me, I asked for further information:
PayPals log in records show that Mr T had a failed log-in attempt in May 
2020. But since then Mr T hasnt attempted to log in on-line.
The failed log-in attempt arose as a result of a negative balance on Mr Ts 
PayPal account that had been there since January 2020 (when the account was 
limited). PayPal carried out a reconciliation exercise to clear the negative 
balance. This meant Mr T would have been able to log in to his account about 
four hours later.
Although PayPal notified Mr T of the negative balance and that it had been 
corrected, there was nothing in the message about that also rectifying any log-in 
problems.
Following that, Mr T was sent messages about logging into his PayPal credit 
account as payments had been missed. The log-in records show Mr T made no 
further log-in attempts.
If Mr T provides the requested information and repays the balance or enters 
into a payment arrangement both limitations can be removed.
Mr Ts account has been brought back in house and is no-longer with the 
external collections agency.
I issued my provisional decision on 17 March 2021. I said:
I would firstly like to reassure both Mr T and PayPal that although I have only 
summarised the background and arguments above, I have read and considered 
everything that has been provided. My role isnt to comment on every point made; 
rather I will concentrate on the crux of the issue. And it seems to me there are two 
issues here; the limitation of the PayPal account and the balance of the PayPal 
credit account and access to that. I will deal with each separately.
PayPal account
When Mr T opened his PayPal account he agreed to abide by the account 
terms and conditions. Those terms explain that:
Account Limitations
Limitations are implemented to help protect PayPal, buyers and sellers when we 
notice restricted activities, and increased financial risk, or activity that appears to 
us to be unusual or suspicious. Limitations also help us collect information 
necessary for keeping your PayPal account open.
There are several reasons why your PayPal account could be limited including 
where we have reason to believe that:
Someone could be using your PayPal account without your knowledge, then 
well limit it for your protection and look into the fraudulent activity.
Someone has used your card or bank account without your permission, for 
example if your debit or credit card issuer or bank alerts us to this.You have breached this user agreement or violated the Acceptable Use 
Policy. Your performance as a seller indicate your PayPal account is high 
risk. Examples include: indications of poor selling performance because 
youve received an unusually high number of claims and chargebacks, selling 
an entirely new or high- cost product type, or if your typically sales volume 
increases rapidly.
There is a risk of liability (a non-exhaustive list of examples of such risk is set 
out in the section Actions We May Take If You Engage In Any Restricted 
Activity above). We may also limit your PayPal account in order to comply with 
applicable law.
You will need to resolve any issues with your account before a limitation can be 
removed. Normally, this is done after you provide us with the information we 
request. However, if we reasonably believe a risk still exists after you have 
provided us that information, we may take action to protect PayPal, our users, a 
third party, or you from reversals, fees, fines, penalties and or regulatory risks 
and any other liability.
Mr T says his account was limited because of an issue with an item he was selling 
on behalf of another that was later withdrawn; but that matter had been resolved. 
That may be the case, but the terms and conditions allow PayPal to limit an 
account in certain circumstances, as it did here.
PayPal has provided records to show it contacted Mr T in January and February 
2020 for further information in order to lift the limit from the account. Its my 
understanding that Mr T hasnt yet provided the information and doesnt intend to 
do so. I accept Mr T doesnt believe he should need to provide whats been asked 
for. But it remains that PayPal is entitled, as per its terms and conditions, to limit 
accounts and to ask for information for limits to be lifted. It is of course up to Mr T 
whether he wishes to comply with such a request. But I dont find any basis on 
which to say PayPal has acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to this particular 
matter. It follows that I dont require it take any further action about this.
I leave it to Mr T to now decide whether or not to provide the information asked for.
PayPal credit account
Mr T successfully made payments to his credit account in February and April 2020. 
And so it would appear at that time there were no issues with accessing his 
account. However, it does seem that in May, after the above PayPal account had 
had a negative balance for several months, Mr T couldnt log on. It isnt clear if 
thats connected to Mr T not providing the information needed to remove the limit 
or not. But it doesnt appear in dispute that there was a problem.
PayPal has explained that login access can be automatically locked if there is a 
negative balance on an account; and that includes accessing a credit account. 
PayPal put that matter right on the same day that Mr T tried logging on (15 May) 
and says he would have been able to access his account a few hours later. I can 
see PayPal notified Mr T the negative balance had been rectified. But I cant see 
that it told him any access issues were now resolved. I think this would have been 
helpful information to have  Mr T would then have known there was no longer an 
issue. Yet despite Mr T raising this and subsequently complaining, PayPal didnt 
provide this explanation until part way through our investigation. I think it fair to say 
the customer service could and should have been better.That said, Im not persuaded that means all of the interest and charges should be 
removed from Mr Ts credit account. The log-in records show Mr T didnt make any 
attempts to log in to his account after 15 May, despite being sent reminders for 
payments. And although he says he was provided with numbers that didnt work, I 
can see from PayPals records that he did manage to speak with it on several 
occasions. In August 2020 it was recorded that he was unable to make payment 
and following that he didnt want to as he wanted the limitation of his account 
sorted and a removal of the interest and charges.
It seems to me that Mr T is at least, in part, responsible for the situation in which 
he finds himself. It was only because of his refusal to provide the information 
requested that the limitation remained on his account. And although Mr T didnt 
agree with any part of his balance being formed of interest and charges, they 
were applied in accordance with the terms because Mr T didnt make repayments. 
I accept he couldnt access his account on 15 May. But the log-in records show 
he never made any attempts to access it following that.
And there is a telephone number on the statements which can be used to make 
payment. I accept and understand that Mr T has caring responsibilities which might 
make calling harder. But it nevertheless remains that he needed to make 
repayments on time, and Im satisfied he could have done so by telephone.
I do understand that he didnt want to make repayments when the balance was 
formed, in a small part, of interest and charges. But he could have made 
payments and continued to dispute the charges  that way, he would have 
mitigated his situation and limited any further late payment charges being added 
to the account.
Taking everything into consideration, it seems both parties have contributed to 
what has happened. Mr T could have provided the information needed to lift the 
limitation, and I find it fair that PayPal asked for this. He also could have made 
payments to his credit account via the telephone. However, I also find that PayPal 
could and should have told Mr T that access to his account had been restored on 
15 May 2020.
Mr T wants the interest and charges removed from his balance. I have considered 
this carefully. However, I have noted that even when Mr T could access his 
account and was making payments, he wasnt clearing the balance in full (and 
wasnt required to) and so was incurring monthly interest on the balance. Im 
therefore not persuaded it would be fair to ask PayPal to reimburse any interest as 
this would have been incurred anyway. The remainder of what has been added to 
the account is late payments fees - £12 each month for the three months that Mr T 
never made payment. As noted above, these fees have been correctly applied  
he could have made by payment by telephone but didnt. However, I find it fair that 
PayPal refund the first of these fees because it didnt tell Mr T login access had 
been restored. But I find the remainder have been fairly applied as Mr T didnt 
make payment.
PayPal had previously made a goodwill offer to refund all of the interest and 
charges  totalling £43.46. I dont know if that offer is still open for acceptance as 
Mr T didnt accept it. As can be seen it is more than what Im minded to ask 
PayPal to do to put this matter right. I ask PayPal to let me know in response to 
this provisional decision whether the offer is still open.Mr T has a balance outstanding with PayPal, which it is entitled to ask him to 
repay. I note PayPal has recalled the debt back in house. Both parties will need to 
work together to reach a repayment agreement, something which PayPal has 
already offered to reach with Mr T.
Mr T replied and in summary said:
He accepted the point about interest, but he disagrees that only one of the late 
payment fees should be removed as the failure to inform him that he could access 
his account continued throughout the process. 
He did accept the original offer but disputed the findings and he expects the offer 
to be upheld. 
It is wrong and extremely detrimental for an opinion to be cast as fact on his ability 
to make calls or not as it belittles the impact caring as on all aspects of his life and 
his availability. He would like serious consideration into this matter and it sets a 
dangerous precedent if an ombudsman decides he has time and it would be 
viewed as discrimination by association as there is no way it can be suggested he 
did have time or that it was appropriate he pay by phone as there are mitigating 
circumstances. 
The issue is he was not informed by PayPal account access had been restored 
not whether or not he attempted to log-in again or use the phone. And this failure 
led to additional problems. It continues to concern him that his rights are being 
violated under the Equalities Act. 
He has told us repeatedly that he offered to make payment, he contested the 
problem and was guided by customer services. PayPal should have it recorded 
that he offered to make payment and it should be included within the findings that 
PayPal didnt accept the offer whilst the dispute was looked into. 
He wanted confirmation his account had been recalled and wanted his credit file 
amended and consideration of awarding compensation. He fails to see how he is 
at fault in relation to this matter.
PayPayl didnt receive a copy of the provisional decision when initially sent. Another copy 
was provided. In response, PayPal has confirmed it will honour the goodwill gesture it 
made to refund £43.46 which would include the £12.00 late payment fee from the June 
statement). It also understands the point about notification. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mr Ts responses to my provisional decision carefully, but they dont alter 
my provisional findings. I will however respond to his points. 
Mr T is concerned his rights under the Equality Act 2010 are being violated. He is a carer 
and any suggestion that he could have called could be viewed as discrimination by 
association. 
I would firstly like to say that I in no way intended to belittle Mr T or his situation. I do 
understand that providing care can be both difficult and time consuming, particularly when 
the country went into lockdown and home schooling needed to be provided. Although the Act 
is relevant law, it isnt my role to say whether a business has been unlawful under the 
provisions of the Act as that is a matter for the courts; rather it is my role to decide whether it 
has acted fairly and reasonably. I accept that Mr T had difficulties in contacting PayPal. I also accept that not being able to 
get through would be incredibly frustrating, particularly when time is very important. But I do 
have to take into account that Mr T was speaking with PayPal over the phone and had done 
on several occasions; the records show that. I think it would be difficult for me to find Mr T 
hadnt been offered a viable contact method when he was using it. 
I can also see from the records that PayPal had offered Mr T the online chat facility to 
discuss his account. I appreciate Mr T didnt want to, because of previous data issues, and 
he had concerns over data security. But not wishing to use a facility is very different to not 
being able to. 
I understand Mr T considers the issue to be PayPal not notifying him his account access had 
been restored rather than whether or not he attempted to log-in again or use the phone. I 
have already found that PayPal could and should have told him his access had been 
restored. But I dont think I could fairly ignore that Mr T made no further attempts to log-in; 
PayPals records show it contacted him twice in May 2020 asking him to log-in to make 
payment as it was overdue. I accept he may have thought access was still an issue, but it 
doesnt appear he tried. And I think it is entirely relevant to my consideration of whether the 
fees have been applied correctly to consider whether Mr T made alternative attempts to 
make payments that were correctly due. 
Mr T says he wants it detailed in my findings that he did make offers of payment. I accept he 
did, but as detailed before those offers were conditional on the interest and charges incurred 
not being included in the balance. This was a view Mr T still had when asking for the matter 
to be referred to an ombudsman. Its clear PayPal felt the fees and interest had been added 
in accordance with the terms, even though Mr T disputed that was fair. And whilst he 
disputed that, there was nevertheless an existing balance that Mr T owed to PayPal. I 
remain of the view that he could have made a payment whilst pursuing his concerns.  
Finally, Mr T says he accepted the offer as set out in the investigators view, but disputed the 
findings and for that reason he expects it to be upheld. But in response to the investigator , 
Mr T said  I therefore cannot accept, given the time invested by me last year, and the 
impact on my health, trying to resolve this matter with PayPal, that I can accept this amount 
as the maximum offer.  As Mr T disputed the investigators finding and didnt accept the 
offer, it fell to me to decide the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
For the reasons already given, I remain of the view that PayPal was entitled to ask for 
information from Mr T in order to release the initial limitation placed on his PayPal account. 
Im satisfied that PayPal has applied late payment fees in accordance with the account terms 
and conditions to his credit account, although I find it reasonable for the fee applied in the 
June 2020 statement to be refunded. Nevertheless, I note that PayPal has agreed to stand 
by the goodwill gesture made to refund £43.46 to the account. 
Im unsure if Mr T has taken step to contact PayPal about the outstanding balance, or 
whether that is still owed. But both parties will need to work together to reach a repayment 
agreement if they havent already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to 
remove the late payment fee applied to the account in the June 2020 statement. If Mr T 
would like to accept the goodwill gesture made by PayPal, he will need to contact it directly.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman