DRN-3579008
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr W complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) settlement 
offer and handling of their claim following an escape of water under their building insurance 
policy.
What happened
In January 2021 Mrs M and Mr W contacted RSA to report a problem with their kitchen sink. 
There appeared to be a blockage and water had backed up causing damage and making the 
sink unusable. 
RSA sent a specialist drain engineer to investigate. It says the drains were found to be clear 
but there was an issue with a pipe under the kitchen floor that was causing water to back up. 
Mrs M and Mr W spoke with RSA on the phone to discuss next steps and it sent an email to 
confirm this in February 2021. 
RSA says it told Mrs M and Mr W they had trace and access cover. This would cover the 
cost of removing any part of the building to locate the leak but excludes the cost of repairing 
the leak itself. It asked for photos to allow a clear idea of the damage and that once the leak 
had been fixed Mrs M and Mr W should submit the trace and access costs with their photos 
for it to review. 
Mrs M and Mr W arranged for a plumber to locate and repair the leak. They obtained three 
quotes to carry out the repairs to the floor and kitchen unit. They arranged for the work to be 
completed using the cheapest contractor and submitted these costs to RSA. 
RSA says it had no opportunity to validate the costs claimed prior to the work being 
completed. It arranged for a surveyor to visit Mrs M and Mr Ws home. He assessed the cost 
of the damage and calculated repairs covered by their policy came to £1440.01. This is 
before the policy excess fee. It says Mrs M and Mr W paid £2,809.61 for the repairs, which it 
believes is excessive.
Mrs M and Mr W didnt accept RSAs settlement payment and didnt think the claim had 
been handled well causing distress and inconvenience. RSA didnt respond to their 
complaint within eight weeks, so they referred it to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
their complaint. She didnt think Mrs M and Mr W had allowed RSA the opportunity to 
validate the cost of the claim. She thought it had acted fairly and in line with the policy terms 
in making its offer.
Mrs M and Mr W didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review their 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to consider whether RSA treated Mrs M and Mr W fairly in how it handled 
their claim under the terms of their policy. Their complaint falls into two parts and I have split 
my decision by two headings.
Claim settlement 
I can sympathise with Mrs M and Mr W that they werent able to use their kitchen as they 
normally would. Im sorry that they were distressed and were inconvenienced because of 
this. 
Ive read through the correspondence and claim notes to understand what was discussed 
between RSA and Mrs M and Mr W when the claim was raised. 
I can see the drain specialist identified the drains were clear, but there was thought to be a 
problem with the underfloor pipes. It was established that further work was necessary to 
identify the leak and fix it. RSA confirmed that trace and access cover was in place to 
access the location of the leak. It sent an email to Mrs M and Mr W in February 2021. This 
says:
We have had confirmation that this is no longer a drainage issue but instead an escape of 
water, suspected to be coming from under the flooring in the kitchen. 
You do have trace and access cover on the policy which will cover you for removing any part 
of the building necessary to locate the leak, this excludes the cost to repair the leak. 
We would ask that you take plenty of images of the process before, during and after the leak 
has been found so we have a clear idea of the damage involved. Once the leak has been 
fixed please submit the trace and access costs along with the images for our review.
RSA sent a chaser email two weeks later asking for the information. Mr W responded the 
same day to say they were obtaining quotes and will be in touch. The records show a further 
contact from RSA via email towards the end of March asking if Mr W had obtained quotes. 
Mrs M and Mr W subsequently sent photos and an invoice for the completed works. This 
included the trace and access work as well as the reinstatement of the damaged areas. 
RSA wasnt satisfied that it had been given the opportunity to validate the costs claimed. So, 
it arranged for a surveyor to visit. Ive read the information provided by its surveyor. This 
includes a schedule of works and costings for the repairs covered by Mrs M and Mr Ws 
policy. The settlement figure calculated is significantly less than they had paid for the repairs. 
Ive read the schedule of works. I think this shows the surveyor included the work required to 
reinstate the kitchen from the damage caused by the escape of water. Mrs M and Mr W dont 
dispute this point, but they do think RSA should refund what they paid their contractor to 
carry out the repairs.
I have thought about whether RSAs settlement offer is fair. 
When a customer claims under their policy its expected for the insurer to have the 
opportunity to validate the claim and any costs that are involved. I dont dispute Mrs M and 
Mr Ws strongly held view that they acted reasonably when arranging for the repairs to be 
carried out, based on what RSA had told them. But having considered the records provided, 
I cant see that RSA authorised repairs to be carried out. The email from February 2021 says 
they are covered for trace and access, and once the leak has been located, and fixed, they should provide the associated costs. 
The email says Mrs M and Mr W should take plenty of images and provide these for RSA to 
review. There is no reference to reinstatement works being covered at this point. When this 
is chased up by RSA, Mr W says hes obtaining quotes. But neither the information RSA 
requested or the quotes he mentioned, were provided to RSA prior to him instructing a 
contractor to complete the repairs.  
I have read Mrs M and Mr W s policy terms to understand what is expected in these 
circumstances. The terms under General Conditions say:
Your Insurers rights following a claim.
If you make a claim or possible claim under this policy your insurer will at their option:
Repair, reinstate or replace the lost, damaged or stolen property or pay the cost of 
reinstatement through a repair or replacement network nominated by your insurer. 
RSAs surveyor has costed the repairs covered by Mrs M and Mr Ws policy at £1,440.01. I 
acknowledge their desire to have the repairs completed quickly, and they felt this was best 
achieved by appointing their own contractor. But for the reasons I have set out above, I dont 
think this was authorised by RSA. So, I dont think it behaved unfairly when relying on its 
policy terms and offering the settlement figure it did. 
Claim handling
Mrs M and Mr W have expressed concern with how RSA handled their claim. I have read the 
records provided in detail to understand how this was processed. But I dont think RSA 
behaved unreasonably. 
Initial investigations were carried out and Mrs M and Mr W were then instructed to arrange 
for the leak to be accessed. The costs of which were covered by their policy. And they were 
to arrange for the leak to be fixed, which was payable by them. It was expected that Mrs M 
and Mr W would provide the requested information for the access costs and photos showing 
the damage for RSA to review. It contacted them to chase for a response when this wasnt 
received. 
Mr W responded the same day to RSAs chaser. But he didnt provide the information 
requested. What he did was to arrange the repair works to be carried out and then sent 
information to RSA. This meant it had to arrange for the repair costs to be validated after 
they had been completed. The dispute about the amount RSA was prepared to pay to settle 
the claim then followed. 
I understand that Mrs M and Mr W hold strong views that they have been treated unfairly. 
But Im not persuaded this has been shown to be the case. RSA was entitled to validate the 
cost of the repairs covered by its policy. I think it acted reasonably when trying to do so. 
Im sorry Mrs M and Mr W are dissatisfied with the time taken by RSA to respond to their 
complaint. But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity in itself. This means I cant 
consider this here.   
Based on what I have seen I dont think RSA took an unreasonable amount of time when 
handling Mrs M and Mr Ws claim, or that its settlement offer was unfair for the reasons 
discussed. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more to resolve their complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman