DRN-2491396
The complaint
Mr P complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) were irresponsible to lend 
to him.
What happened
Mr P had four loans from Mr Lender between November 2014 and February 2015 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 7 Nov 2014 £200 2m £150 19 Dec 2014 20 Nov 2014
2 27 Nov 2014 £750 6m £350 20 May 2015 20 Jan 2015
3 9 Feb 2015 £100 18d £115.20 27 Feb 2015 10 Feb 2015
4 20 Feb 2015 £300 3m £193.60 29 May 2015 22 Feb 2016
Mr P says his credit file would have shown excessive borrowing, including from other short-
term loan companies, and his bank statements would have revealed a gambling issue. He 
says if Mr Lender had carried out diligent checks it would have been clear he was in no 
position to borrow further money.
Mr Lender says it conducted an employment check and a credit check and asked Mr P about 
his income and outgoings. It says it hadnt been made aware of Mr Ps gambling during any 
of the loan applications and said its checks were sufficient for the loans. Nevertheless, it 
offered Mr P a £25 voucher as a gesture of goodwill, which Mr P did not accept.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied Mr 
Lender carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available information 
to indicate Mr P was struggling to manage his money. Our adjudicator added that he found 
Mr Lender acted fairly when Mr P told it he was in financial difficulties during loan 4.
Mr P responded to say, in summary, that adequate checks would have shown defaults with 
four other short-term loan companies, so he could not conclude Mr Lenders credit check 
was fit for purpose. He added that hed been declared bankrupt in 2008 and could not 
understand how Mr Lender said he had a credit score of 590. Mr P also said this service had 
upheld a similar complaint about Mr Lender where the ombudsman said I disagree with Mr 
Lender that it can only carry out checks which have been suggested by the FCA [Financial 
Conduct Authority]. The FCA is simply making suggestions, not giving instructions. The 
obligation is on Mr Lender to carry out proportionate checks, which may include taking steps 
such as looking at a consumers bank statements.
Specifically, Mr P was concerned that Mr Lender had not verified his declared monthly 
expenditure, including what hed said about other short-term loans. He said the fact that his 
second loan was significantly higher than the first, so shortly afterwards, should have 
triggered alarm bells.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customers been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Loan 1
When Mr P applied for his first loan with Mr Lender, he said his income was £2,367 and Ive 
seen the payslip Mr Lender used to verify this. As this was Mr Ps first loan and the 
maximum scheduled repayment was just 6% of his income, Im satisfied the checks carried 
out by Mr Lender went far enough. So I cant conclude Mr Lender was wrong to have 
approved Loan 1.
Loan 2
Mr P repaid loan 1 early and within seven days he applied for a further £750 loan. As this 
was a much higher amount, and was due to be repaid over a longer term, I consider 
proportionate checks should have included asking Mr P for information about his 
expenditure. I can see Mr Lender did this, and I can also see the results of the credit check it 
carried out. Based on the information it had, I dont consider Mr Lender needed to carry out 
further checks at this stage. I say that because:
Mr P had a good repayment history to date;
The highest repayment due on the loan was less than 15% of his verified 
income;
Based on Mr Ps declared regular expenditure, he had a disposable income of 
over £1,100 per month;
There was nothing in the information that Mr Lender had at the time that 
indicated Mr P was in financial difficulty.
I accept that Mr Lender did not verify Mr Ps declared expenditure, but I dont find it was 
proportionate to have done so at this stage in the lending, given what its existing checks 
showed.
Loan 3
Again, Mr P repaid his previous loan early so, when he applied for a much smaller loan a 
couple of weeks later, I cant see there was any reason for Mr Lender to add further checks 
to the information it already had about Mr Ps income, expenditure and credit record.
 
Loan 4
Mr P cancelled loan 3, but applied for a £300 loan ten days later. As his repayment history 
remained good and the largest payment on loan 4 was less than 8% of his income, Im 
satisfied that Mr Lenders credit check and request for information about Mr Ps income and 
expenditure was proportionate. Again, there was nothing in the available information to 
indicate Mr P might be in financial difficulties and so I cant see there was any reason to 
carry out further checks or verify the expenditure information provided by Mr P.I acknowledge what Mr P says about a previous case that was upheld by this service, but we 
can only consider cases on their individual merits. In the case he cites, the circumstances of 
the borrowing, in particular with regard to the repayment amounts relative to income, were 
very different. Therefore the appropriate proportionate checks are likely to be very different. 
As the ombudsman in that case said: The FCA is simply making suggestions, not giving 
instructions. The obligation is on Mr Lender to carry out proportionate checks. For the 
above reasons, I find Mr Lender has done that in this case.
I also accept that Mr P was bankrupt in 2008 and, therefore, says his credit score cannot 
have been 590. Ive seen the results of the credit checks carried out by Mr Lender and Im 
satisfied they show that credit score at the time of each of the loan applications.
Ive also seen the bank statements Mr P provided and, although I acknowledge what he says 
about his financial circumstances, I cannot conclude that Mr Lender should have carried out 
a full review of his bank statements before it approved the loans.
In summary, Im satisfied Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks for all four loans and it 
did nothing wrong by approving them based on the information it had.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman