DRN-4075014
The complaint
Mrs B, is complaining that Almond & Jenkinson Financial Planning Ltd (A&J) incorrectly 
advised her and her (now deceased) husband to take out a whole of life assurance policy 
held in trust.
What happened
In 2000, Mr and Mrs B met with an A&J adviser. The documents from the time record their 
priorities as being to offset inheritance tax on their deaths and to gain capital growth tax-
efficiently from a lump-sum investment. They also mentioned protecting their estate from 
care home fees. 
Their expected inheritance tax liability at the time was £77,600. 
A&J advised Mr and Mrs B to take out a whole of life policy and place it in trust to ensure 
benefits were paid quickly and outside their estate to cover the inheritance tax. They 
suggested an Individual Savings Account (ISA) for the tax-efficient investment. This 
complaint deals only with the whole of life policy.
The policy was set up on a joint life, second death basis, with the sum assured to increase 
annually by the greater of 7.5% and rate of increase in the UK Average Earnings Index. The 
premiums were initially under £50 per month but would increase each year as needed to 
support the increase in sum assured. It was a maximum cover policy  meaning that the 
majority of the premiums would go towards providing the cover at the time rather than being 
invested.
The policy was reviewed in 2010 and 2015 and passed both reviews, with significantly 
increased premiums and sum assured. By 2020 the sum assured was around £307,000 and 
premiums were around £945 per month. Then Mrs B received the 2020 review. This said 
shed need to increase her premiums to around £1,650 per month or significantly reduce her 
sum assured. It said if she didnt do anything the policy would lapse in March 2021. 
Mrs B didnt increase the premiums or reduce the sum assured, so the policy lapsed. In the 
meantime she complained to A&J. She said she didnt know why the policy had been put in 
place and that her husband wouldnt have agreed to a plan that was going to potentially cost 
her £1,648 per month. A&J didnt uphold her complaint, so she brought it to our service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. His view was that maximum cover wasnt suitable for 
inheritance tax mitigation and therefore that A&J shouldnt have recommended this policy to 
Mr and Mrs B. He said there wasnt enough evidence about what other cover was available 
at the time to decide what Mr and Mrs B would have done differently. So he came to the 
conclusion that they wouldnt have taken a policy out at all and that A&J should repay all of 
the premiums Mr and Mrs B had paid throughout the policy.
A&J werent happy with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter. I issued a provisional decision on 14 March 2023. In that I said:  
Suitability
Mr and Mrs B were looking for a way to offset the inheritance tax liability that would arise 
when the second person died. So they needed a product that would be expected to last 
until that happened, but also a product with flexibility to adapt to changes in the 
inheritance tax rules and their own circumstances. 
The whole of life assurance policy sold to Mr and Mrs B had significant flexibility  each 
year the sum assured increased to take into account the expectation that Mr and Mrs Bs 
inheritance tax liability would increase. This would happen without needing medical 
evidence. And Mr and Mrs B could make changes to the policy at any time if they wanted 
to. 
However, this was a maximum cover policy, meaning that it gave the highest level of life 
cover for the premium amount. This normally means most of the premium will go towards 
paying for the life cover with only a relatively small portion of the premium left over to be 
invested. Although the premiums normally provide more cover at the outset, a maximum 
cover policy is more likely to fail a policy review than a standard cover policy. Thats why 
a maximum cover policy isnt generally suitable for covering an inheritance tax liability  
because its likely to fail reviews before its needed.
Redress
As Ive explained above, a maximum cover policy wasnt entirely suitable for Mr and 
Mrs B. So Ive thought about what position theyd have been in if A&J had made a more 
suitable recommendation.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs B wanted to put something in place to offset the inheritance tax  
that would arise on their death. So I dont think its reasonable to say they wouldnt have 
taken out a policy at all if theyd known their policy might fail reviews in the future.
A standard cover policy would have been more suitable for Mr and Mrs B. Because of the 
amount of time thats passed, we dont have information about what a standard cover 
policy would have cost in 2020. Ive seen quotes for similar maximum and standard cover 
policies generated recently, and they show monthly premiums of around £27 and around 
£167 respectively. So a standard cover policy would have been significantly more 
expensive in the early years of the policy. 
A&Js representative says that he would have explained the different types of cover to Mr 
and Mrs B and that they chose the maximum cover basis. While we dont have any 
documents showing that this was the case, it would be an understandable choice given 
the significant difference in initial premiums.
Ive thought about whether to ask A&J to pay the difference between the cost of a 
standard policy and the premiums Mr and Mrs B have paid for their maximum policy. But, 
as A&J pointed out, theyve not advised Mrs B for around 20 years. During that time 
inheritance tax rules have changed, and so have Mrs Bs circumstances. In 2000, when 
the policy was set up, it was likely that the tax rules and the customers circumstances 
would change over the coming years. 
Taking everything together, Im inclined to say that Mr and Mrs B would have taken this 
policy even if theyd known it was likely to fail reviews in the future. I think their desire to 
offset their inheritance tax liability was strong enough that they would have taken a whole 
of life policy. And I think the amount of difference in premiums would have pushed them 
to choose this over standard cover. A&J had no comments on my provisional decision, but Mrs B did. She said she and her 
husband took out the policy recommended by the adviser. She said theyd never been told 
that the policy would become completely unaffordable. And she said at the time they took 
out the policy, affordability wouldnt have been an issue. So if there was a policy that would 
have been more suitable they would have taken it even if was more expensive. She added 
that if the policy wasnt suitable to cover an inheritance tax liability and was just a life cover 
policy they wouldnt have taken the policy out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not changed my view and my conclusions are the same as they were in 
my provisional decision. Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain further below.
As I explained in my provisional decision, a standard policy is considered more suitable for 
covering an inheritance tax liability than a maximum cover policy. But that doesnt mean a 
maximum cover policy is completely unsuitable. Mrs Bs commented that she and her 
husband didnt want merely a life cover policy but thats what any similar policy would be  
life assurance that paid out when the life assured died, with the aim being that the sum 
assured would match any inheritance tax liability. 
The flexibility built into the policy meant that Mr and Mrs B could adjust the policy to match 
their likely inheritance tax liability  it was likely the intention that the policy was adjusted 
over time. And the review letters suggested that the policyholders contacted their financial 
advisers or the policy provider if they had any questions about the plan or about plan 
reviews.
Mrs B says affordability wasnt an issue at the time they took out the plan. But, for the first 
ten years, a balanced plan would have likely cost around £20,000 compared to £3,000 for a 
similar maximum cover option. Its very difficult to say that Mr and Mrs B would have chosen 
to pay £17,000 more for the same benefit despite Mrs Bs testimony. On the balance of 
probabilities, Ive concluded that they wouldnt have done  I still think they would have 
chosen the cheaper policy with the intention of reviewing their needs in the future. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint about Almond & Jenkinson 
Financial Planning Ltd. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman