DRN-1757093
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited handle a buildings 
insurance claim.
What happened
The parties are aware of the background to the claim and complaint, so I wont go into all the 
details. The crux of the complaint concerns a subsidence claim. Mr and Mrs B complain 
about the way the claim was handled but the main issue is that they had piling works carried 
out, which Fairmead has said it will not pay. This was because the piling work wasnt 
considered appropriate as further monitoring for movement was needed to establish if the 
home was still affected (after a tree and vegetation had been removed). But Fairmead 
acknowledged some of its service could have been better and offered £500 compensation.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but did not recommend that it should be 
upheld. She explained that Mr and Mrs Bs expert and Fairmeads expert differed in their 
view of what was needed to be done. While Mr and Mrs Bs expert thought piling was the 
only way to remedy the subsidence, Fairmeads expert considered a period of monitoring 
was appropriate to see whether the home was in fact still moving. 
The investigator noted that Mr and Mrs B had already planned to go ahead with piling and 
Fairmead had written to them saying it wouldnt cover the costs (7 June). And although Mr 
and Mrs B replied to this letter Fairmead advised they should put the works on hold (13 
June). The works went ahead at Mr and Mrs Bs instruction (17 June).
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigator saying Fairmead had sent the contractor a 
cheque for the deposit of works (10%) and so Fairmead is bound contractually to cover all 
costs. 
Fairmead said the cheque was sent by mistake and it deducted the amount from the overall 
settlement paid to Mr and Mrs B. And in any case, the works commenced on the 
understanding that Fairmead wouldnt pay; works started on 17 June and the cheque wasnt 
apparently received by the contractor until 18 June. So, it made no difference to Mr and 
Mrs Bs decision to go ahead with the work in the knowledge that Fairmead wouldnt be 
covering the cost.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill cover off the handling of the claim briefly. Fairmead acknowledged that some 
communication wasnt as clear as it could have been, and its service wasnt to the level it 
expected. Like the investigator Im satisfied £500 is a fair amount to reflect any 
inconvenience or distress caused.
The crux though concerns the piling cost. Its relevant that the contract for piling works was 
between Mr and Mrs B and the piling contractor. Indeed, Fairmead was not involved with 
that contract and thats because it didnt think piling was appropriate. The contractor directly 
invoiced Mr B on 24 May 2019 stating 10% of the overall contract cost was required by 
return before works could commence. And it was solely at Mr Bs instruction that works 
commenced notwithstanding that as far as he knew, Fairmead was not going to cover any 
cost. Fairmeads letter to Mr and Mrs B was explicit on this point. Despite everything the 
contractor commenced piling work on 17 June, and I infer that Mr and Mrs B had paid the 
deposit to enable works to begin because Fairmead hadnt. So, Im satisfied that Mr and 
Mrs B had contractually committed to the contractor and they were ultimately responsible for 
paying the contracted amount. 
What impact then does the cheque sent by Fairmead to the contractor have? Its important 
to restate that Fairmead had been explicit that it wasnt going to cover piling costs. In fact, it 
had been consistent on this for several months. Thats because its experts opinion was that 
piling wasnt required and monitoring of movement was appropriate. The cheque was 
mistakenly issued by Fairmeads loss adjuster on 14 June, the day after Fairmead had 
advised Mr B to not go ahead with piling explaining it would not cover the cost. Mr B 
continued with the work knowing Fairmead wouldnt cover the cost. He wasnt aware of the 
cheques existence until after works had comenced, and so the mistake had no bearing on 
his decision to incur the cost. Indeed, hed already formed the contract to pay the contractor 
before June. So, Im satisfied Fairmead did not mislead Mr and Mrs B to incur piling costs.
I am satisfied that Fairmeads decision not to cover piling costs was fair. No monitoring was 
done, and it may well have been the case that the removal of vegetation and a tree had 
stabilised the property. Monitoring is standard industry practice to establish whether a 
property is moving after such works. I appreciate Mr B may well have been keen to ensure 
his home was stable, but he voluntarily incurred a cost he knew Fairmead was not going to 
cover. As Im satisfied Fairmead didnt mislead Mr and Mrs B into incurring the cost, Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable that Fairmead recovered this amount by deducting the 
overall settlement. It was money Mr and Mrs B werent entitled to under the policy, and in my 
consideration, they had no reasonable expectation of receiving such money.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman