DRN-3315546
The complaint
Mr T complains that XTB Limited failed to protect him from incurring significant losses on his 
trading account. He feels it should have recognised that hed developed a problem and 
taken steps to restrict his account.
What happened
Mr T opened his Contracts for Difference (CFD) account with XTB in June 2019. The 
account was then closed in December 2019 when he informed XTB that hed developed a 
gambling problem. Mr T complained to XTB as he felt it shouldnt have allowed him to open 
the account in the first place, nor allowed him to continue trading while making numerous 
deposits into the account. 
XTB didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It explained that its application process had included the 
completion of an appropriateness test to determine his knowledge and experience of the 
service offered. It said he had passed this test. It also emphasised that its service was 
execution-only and that its terms required accurate information to be provided to it, with 
responsibility for doing so, and for any subsequent trading on the account, remaining solely 
with Mr T. 
XTB noted Mr Ts concerns that hed been able to continue to make deposits to his account 
after hed exceeded the liquid net worth figure hed given as part of the application process. 
It said Mr T had been told he shouldnt make any deposits until he completed a data refresh 
process that involved providing source of funds information. XTB noted that despite being 
told this, Mr T had made multiple attempts to place deposits in a short space of time, which 
had led to the system being overridden and some attempts being successful. XTB noted 
that, in any event, its system for restricting deposits wasnt a regulatory requirement. 
In short, XTB was satisfied it had acted correctly and taken appropriate actions to assess 
Mr Ts knowledge, experience, and financial circumstances, on multiple occasions.
The complaint was referred to this service where our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusions as XTB. He noted that, in respect of the account application process and 
appropriateness test, Mr T had said that the information hed provided was either not 
accurate or the answers hadnt properly reflected his specific circumstances. For example, 
although hed selected the option employed, he was in fact on a temporary contract having 
only recently experienced a period of unemployment. 
But the investigator noted that XTB hadnt been made aware of this and stressed that the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) stated at rule 10.2.4 
that: a firm is entitled to rely on the information provided by a client unless it is aware that 
the information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or incomplete.  
The investigator also noted that there was nothing said during the calls between Mr T and 
his new account manager when the account was opened that wouldve led to the conclusion 
that the account was unlikely to be appropriate for him. And the investigator didnt think XTB 
had acted incorrectly in respect of the deposits applied to the account that exceeded the 
initial liquid net worth figure. 
The investigator also noted concerns Mr T had raised about the advertising of XTBs 
services and its response to a Subject Access Request. But, again, he didnt consider that 
XTB had acted incorrectly. 
Mr T didnt accept the investigators view. He said, particularly in respect of his continued 
depositing and trading, that XTB had turned a blind eye, ignoring signs that he was 
obviously in trouble. He wondered why XTB had not asked more probing questions to 
determine the circumstances of his additional deposits and he noted an apparent lack of 
communication between XTBs sales and compliance departments. He questioned why the 
importance of a data refresh and source of funds information had not been better explained 
to him and why the blocks on the account appeared to have been lifted, allowing him to 
make further deposits. 
In respect of the appropriateness test questions, Mr T said he was not asked for the level of 
detail that wouldve demonstrated that his circumstances werent as they appeared to be on 
face value. He didnt actually have the experience of trading that his answers to the 
questions might have suggested and he asked why his unusual trading activity  depositing 
and trading for long periods, very early and late in the day  werent monitored and acted 
upon. He was also unhappy that XTB had offered options for continued trading before his 
account was eventually closed. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. So, as no agreement could be 
reached, the matter was referred to me to review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to express my sympathy for Mr T and recognise the impact this matter has had 
on him. Its quite clearly caused him a great deal of distress and Im glad that hes been able 
to get the help he needed.
That said, in respect of the merits of the complaint, I must look impartially at the actions of 
XTB, with regard for the law and relevant industry rules and regulations, to decide if it acted 
incorrectly or unfairly. 
I appreciate that looking back on what happened, Mr T feels there were occasions where 
XTB could have acted differently and taken steps that might have prevented his situation 
from worsening. But having looked carefully at the whole process, while I can see that things 
perhaps could have been done differently, I dont think that there is anything that XTB should 
have done. 
As has been noted, before any account was opened, XTB was required to ask Mr T to 
provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field so it 
could assess whether the service was appropriate for him. This it did by way of the 
appropriateness test that Mr T completed, which asked questions about his circumstances, 
his experience and his knowledge. 
From the answers given, the CFD trading account was deemed to be appropriate for him. 
The answers indicated that he had some investment experience and some knowledge of 
how the particular product worked. Importantly, this was emphasised during initial telephone 
conversations Mr T had with his account manager. While I accept that there was no suggestion Mr T was a highly experienced trader/investor, he confirmed that he wasnt 
completely inexperienced and asked several questions that demonstrated a reasonable 
knowledge of the type of trading he was going to do  discussing, for instance, margins and 
leverage.
In all the circumstances, I can see no issue with the account being opened following the 
completion of the appropriateness test. In respect of answers given as part of the test that 
gave details of his personal and financial circumstances, I note what Mr Ts said about his 
answers not really reflecting the situation he was in  for example, his employment status 
not being quite as his answer suggested. But XTB could only base any decision it might 
make about Mr Ts account opening or ongoing trading on the answers and information it 
was given. If, for instance, the figure given for liquid net worth was not accurate, due to Mr T 
misunderstanding the term, XTB cant have been expected to be aware of that. 
While Mr T has concerns about the account being opened in the first place, his primary 
concern appears to be with XTB allowing him to continue depositing funds, trading and 
incurring losses while demonstrating behaviours he feels ought to have alerted it to potential 
problems. 
But as an execution-only service, XTB had no responsibility to advise Mr T about how he 
was trading, nor was there any obligation on it to review or monitor the trading on the 
account. XTB did, however, have a mechanism in place to restrict the account when the 
amount deposited exceeded the liquid net worth figure given as part of the account opening 
process. It appears Mr T was informed of the situation when this occurred, and it was 
explained to him what he needed to do for a data refresh to occur and that source of funds 
information needed to be provided. 
Mr T made repeated attempts in a very short space of time to deposit funds, and eventually 
the system was overridden, and some payments accepted. I understand that, in light of 
Mr Ts circumstances and difficulties, this was unfortunate. But again, I dont think that XTB 
can be held responsible for any issues that occurred as a result. XTB had a system in place, 
in line with its responsibilities around anti-money laundering (AML) regulations, that sought 
to keep records in respect of source of funds for deposits. Mr T had been made aware of 
what was needed from him to continue trading. 
I understand that he may not have recognised the significance of this, particularly as by this 
point hed developed a problem and was focussed on chasing losses. But he did provide 
information for the purposes of the data refresh that he acknowledges was incorrect. I note 
what hes said about XTB not making him sufficiently aware of the importance of the 
requirements for this system and the fact that he managed to continue depositing and 
trading while the data refresh process was ongoing. But the system wasnt in place with a 
primary purpose of spotting problematic trading behaviour. As Ive said, it was there primarily 
for more general regulatory purposes. So, I dont think theres any reason why activity 
around it wouldve necessarily alerted XTB to Mr Ts problems. 
Despite there being no specific requirement for XTB to monitor or review the activity on 
Mr Ts account, I have nevertheless given some thought to whether, in the particular 
circumstances, XTB should maybe have acted differently, perhaps taking steps to engage 
with Mr T in the way hes suggested. 
The most obvious point when this might have occurred is during the period in November 
2019 when Mr T made the repeated deposits mentioned above. With hindsight, these 
deposits going beyond his stated liquid net worth were somewhat unusual activity. But they 
occurred over a period of three weeks during which a significant withdrawal from the account 
was also made. And this was while the process of data refresh was ongoing, during which Mr T provided the inaccurate information noted above. A second withdrawal was then 
requested, and a few weeks later Mr T informed XTB of his problems and the account was 
closed. 
In telephone conversations Ive listened to between Mr T and XTB during November 2019 he 
made no reference to any problems. From what Ive seen, there doesnt appear to have 
been a particular point, prior to Mr T informing XTB of his gambling problem, where XTB 
could reasonably have been expected to take a different course of action. Mr T has 
suggested that better note-taking wouldve enabled staff to have a better understanding of 
his ongoing situation. But, as Ive said, there simply wasnt any obligation on XTBs staff to 
carry out a general day-to-day review of what he was doing.  
In all the circumstances, I dont think there was enough to prompt XTB do anything more. It 
may be that if the situation had continued for longer, with further deposits made without the 
provision of source of funds information, then action might have been taken. But, as noted, 
by 20 December 2019 the account had in any event been closed. 
So, in summary, Im satisfied XTB acted fairly and reasonably in respect of Mr Ts account 
opening and continued operation. I note his additional concerns about the way XTBs service 
was advertised and how it was this which prompted him to start using a service he feels was 
not appropriate for him. But Ive seen nothing that persuades me XTB acted incorrectly in 
this respect or advertised its service in breach of any applicable regulations or guidance. 
Lastly, I note his concerns about the way in which his subject access request was handled. 
While it may have taken some time for all the information to be provided and there was some 
disagreement about formats, etc. Im satisfied XTB generally responded to the request in 
good faith, providing alternative formats where possible and explaining its decisions where it 
felt it wasnt required to provide certain pieces of information. Ultimately, Mr T was still able 
to effectively use the information provided by XTB to support his complaint.     
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman