DRN-2550835
The complaint
Mrs J is complaining that Cumberland Building Society wont refund transactions she didnt 
authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision: 
On 8 September 2020, Mrs J received a text, claiming to be from PayPal, alerting her 
to abnormal activity on her account. She googled PayPals number and rang the first 
result that came up. 
Mrs J was told there had been attempted fraud on her account and that theyd send 
her one time passcodes to secure her account, which she shared as instructed. 
When they asked Mrs J for a third code, she became suspicious and hung up. 
Between 8:24am and 8:28am, two payments were made using Mrs Js debit card for 
£207.74 and £1,093.42 to SBCollectForeignCard  which I understand is a way of 
paying for goods/services to the State Bank of Indias corporate customers. Mrs J 
says she didnt make these payments, so she believes they should be refunded.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reaching by the investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, Mrs J isnt liable for payments 
that she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply 
with the terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
Cumberland hasnt disputed that these transactions were unauthorised. Thats 
because Mrs J didnt complete the agreed steps to make the payments (or even 
realise they were being made at the time). Instead, it seems the fraudster made the 
payments using information they convinced Mrs J to share by falsely saying there 
had been attempted fraud on her PayPal account and they needed to secure the 
account. 
 
I dont think Mrs J failed with intent to keep her details safe  she genuinely believed 
what she was doing was necessary to secure her account. 
Im also not satisfied Mrs J failed with gross negligence. She received a text, 
purporting to be from PayPal, alerting her to suspicious activity of her account. Shes 
explained that she uses PayPal a lot and this worried her  so she googled PayPals 
number to speak with someone to sort things out. 
Mrs J says she called the first number that came up. From our experience of dealing 
with similar scams, its likely the number she found was from one of Googles paid 
advertisements that fraudsters take out and pose as legitimate companies, like 
PayPal. These come up first and look very similar to genuine search results  so I 
can see how Mrs J wouldve trusted that the number she dialled was genuinely for 
PayPal.  
Ive considered the information Mrs J shared. Its not clear how the fraudsters gained 
her debit card details. Given that she called them, I think its unlikely theyd already 
have these. But we know from experience how fraudsters cleverly coach people into 
sharing details  usually under the guise that theyre needed to identify the caller or 
secure the account. Indeed, lots of legitimate businesses ask for sensitive personal 
information for similar purposes  so I can understand why this wouldnt have rung 
alarm bells for Mrs J. 
Mrs J also shared two one time passcodes sent to her by text. The texts read 
something like: [X] is the one-time passcode (OTP) for transaction of [amount], 
originating from [merchant] for your CBS card ending [X].
Mrs J doesnt think she opened the full message, and instead read the codes from 
the preview that came up on her phone. Cumberland say this means Mrs J was 
grossly negligent. Im mindful of the wider circumstances  that she had been led to 
expect these codes, as a means of sorting out the problem. I think that lots of people, 
when theyre expecting a code, wouldnt open the message in full  and instead 
would focus on the number that needed to be shared. Indeed, phones are designed 
to allow us to do that  with software that auto completes passcodes and presents 
messages in preview. It follows that I dont think this means that Mrs J fell so far 
below what a reasonable person would do that she failed with gross negligence. 
In saying the above, Im mindful Mrs J made this call, on a number she thought she 
found legitimately and independently. In comparison to cold calls, people tend to 
more trusting on outbound calls that the person they get through to is genuine. 
Alongside this, the fraudsters had a created a worrying situation  that there had 
been attempted fraud on her account. Given her trust in who shed called, and the 
panic they created, I can see how she followed the instructions she was given. I think 
lots of people would  with the relief that doing so would fix the problem, alongside 
the fear that if they dont, theyd put their money at risk. 
Mrs J hung up when they asked for a third code. Im not persuaded that she was 
suspicious before then. Instead, it seems it was the fraudsters repetitive line of 
inquiry that made her think something was up. 
Ive also considered the warnings Cumberland has on its website and what its terms 
and conditions say. But I dont think that Mrs J failing to recall these in the heat of the 
moment, when shed been presented with a worrying situation, means that she 
significantly careless.
On this basis, I dont think Mrs J failed with gross negligence. So I conclude that she 
isnt liable for the transactions and Cumberland need to put things right. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mrs Js complaint and I order Cumberland 
Building Society to:Pay Mrs J the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount already 
returned. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021. 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman