DRN-3754731
The complaint
Mr M complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) irresponsibly granted him a hire 
purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In March 2020, Mr M acquired a used car financed by hire purchase agreement from SMFL. 
Mr M paid a deposit of £1,800 and was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around 
£400 followed by a final repayment of around £410. The total repayable under the 
agreement was around £25,796.
Mr M says that SMFL didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. SMFL didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough creditworthiness assessment which included gathering information about 
Mr M's residential status and employment and verifying his monthly income through a credit 
reference agency affordability check. It carried out a credit check which it says showed Mr M 
had defaulted on an account three years prior to his application but was maintaining his 
outstanding balances at the time well. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think she had enough 
information to be able to say that SMFL acted unfairly or unreasonably by approving the 
finance agreement.
Mr M didnt agree. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SMFL will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before providing the finance, SMFL completed a credit check. I havent seen copy of the 
credit check results but SMFL has recoded that Mr M had a default from three years prior to 
his application and at the time of application had small or no balances outstanding which he 
was managing well. It noted that he had previously had a hire purchase agreement with 
monthly repayments of £351 which he had maintained well and settled in November 2019. 
Mr M hasnt provided a copy of his credit report and so without further evidence to the 
contrary I have considered the information that SMFL has provided about its checks and I do 
not find that this raises concerns that meant the finance shouldnt have been provided or that 
further checks were needed.
At the time of application, Mr Ms monthly income was recorded as £2,000 and this amount 
was verified through an affordability check with a credit reference agency, therefore I find it 
reasonable that this was relied on. However, given the total amount repayable under the 
agreement, its duration and the size of the repayments, I think it would have been 
reasonable to have verified Mr Ms expenditure before providing the finance to ensure it was 
affordable for Mr M.
Ive considered what SMFL would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Mr M to provide us with evidence of his 
financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. However, he hasnt given us 
enough information to fairly determine what proportionate checks would likely have shown 
SMFL. 
As Mr M hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that SMFL ought to have known he would struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that SMFL acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman