DRN-3198884
complaint
Miss T is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd did not reimburse the money she transferred to 
a fraudster.  
background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in August 2020 Miss T was called by a fraudster 
pretending to be from the Royal Courts of Justice (RCJ), on behalf of HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC). Miss T was told by the fraudster that she was accused of tax fraud and 
that she owed £1,725 in unpaid tax, as well as a further £3,900 to cover a number of 
allegations against her. Miss T said she was threatened throughout the call that she would 
be arrested if she didnt make the payment.
Miss T says when she moved to the UK and started in her current employment a year prior 
to the scam, her employers made a mistake with her first payslip and her employment start 
date was changed around, so she thought this may be where a genuine error had come 
from. The fraudster also directed Miss T to the RCJs website to demonstrate that the 
number they were calling from matched that on the website, as well as sending her HMRC 
headed letters with details of the unpaid tax and charges against her. Miss T said the letters 
looked legitimate  containing case numbers, a warrant ID and even a QR code. Miss T was 
told that if it transpired her employer had made an error regarding her tax, and wrote to 
HMRC confirming this, she would be reimbursed.
On this basis, Miss T agreed to pay the charges. She was told she would need to pay the 
charges against her name to different judicial officers so proceeded to make the following 
payments while on the phone to the fraudster:
payee time of payment amount
payee one 16:08 £998.00
payee two 16:18 £726.00
payee three 16:33 £999.00
payee four 16:35 £997.00
payee two 16:37 £999.00
payee one 16:41 £900.00
After the call with the fraudster ended, Miss T called HMRC and realised shed been the 
victim of a scam. She contacted Monzo the same day to raise a claim.
Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Monzo has said Miss T made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing it 
was a genuine payment. Monzo considers that Miss T ought to have done more to verify the 
legitimacy of the payment before making it. It said Miss T didnt do enough to verify it was 
actually the RCJ she was speaking to on the phone.
Monzo also said Miss T ignored an effective warning it provided when Miss T made the 
payment to the fraudster. The warning read as follows:
Stop, dont pay
Its very likely this is a scam
Remember:
HMRC wont ever pressure you to pay over the phone
Fraudsters can spoof or fake HMRCs number to make it look legitimate
Call HMRCs official number
Call HMRC directly on 0300 200 3300 to see if the request was genuine
Upon clicking to proceed, another message wouldve appeared stating:
Are you sure?
Once you make a payment, its almost impossible for us to get the money back.
Monzo did give Miss T £30 compensation for the delays in providing a decision on her claim.
I am also mindful that when Miss T made these payments, Monzo should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Miss T feels she should be refunded and so has referred her complaint to us. An investigator 
looked into Miss Ts complaint and thought she did have a reasonable basis for believing this 
was a legitimate payment. He also didnt consider the warning Monzo had relied on was 
effective under the Code. As Monzo disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Miss T 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
Monzo should in any event have intervened on the fourth payment Miss T made  as 
by this time Miss T had made three payments to three new payees within 30 minutes. 
This was unusual behavior for Miss Ts account and if Monzo had intervened, I am 
satisfied the fraud would have come to light and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss T 
lost.
The money was taken from Miss Ts current account. It is not clear how Miss T would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo 
should also pay:
o8% simple interest on the money it shouldve refunded for the first three 
payments Miss T made, from the date Monzo decided not to refund Miss T 
under the CRM Code to the date of payment.
o8% simple interest on the money it shouldve refunded for the fourth payment 
onward that Miss T made, from the date of loss (11 August 2020) to the date 
of payment. 
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about the warning it gave and whether 
Miss T had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do not 
persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Miss T failed to 
take the requisite level of care required for Monzo to choose not to reimburse under the 
terms of the CRM Code.
Ive considered the warning Monzo presented to Miss T when making the payments to the 
fraudster. In doing so I must determine:
1. Whether the warning Monzo gave Miss T was an effective warning given in
compliance with the CRM Code.
2. If so, whether Miss T ignored that effective warning by failing to take appropriate
action in response to the warning?
Having thought about the Codes requirements for an effective warning, Im not sure I agree 
with the investigator that the warning wasnt effective for the scam she fell victim to. But in 
any event, that doesnt necessarily mean Miss T ignored an effective warning by 
proceeding with the payments. I still need to consider whether Miss T failed to take 
appropriate action in response to the warning.
In the particular circumstances of Miss Ts complaint I dont think she did. Monzo has said 
Miss T spent around seven minutes on the warning screen of its payment app, stopping the 
payment on two occasions when making the first transfer, then proceeding again. Monzo 
considers this is sufficient time for her to understand the impact of making the payments. 
Miss T has said she did question the warning with the scammers but was told they werent 
calling from HMRC, but the RCJ, and provided paperwork supporting this, which convinced 
her the warning didnt apply.
Monzo has highlighted that on some of the paperwork provided, the caller Miss T is 
supposed to be speaking to is listed as being HMRCs chief investigator officer which it 
considers undermines Miss Ts belief that she was speaking with the RCJ. I accept that this case is finely balanced and there is evidence supporting Monzos rationale, but Ive also 
considered the significant pressure we know is applied during these calls. Miss T was on the 
phone for around an hour in total with the fraudsters. During this time she was directed to 
official websites, ordered to make payments, threatened with arrest and sent different 
legalistic documents. I can understand why, under this level of pressure, Miss T didnt join 
the dots to uncover the scam in the way that can be presented with hindsight - and 
proceeded with the payments despite the warning presented.
So, for these reasons, I dont think that Miss T did ignore an effective warning and so I dont 
think Monzo can apply this exception for reimbursement under the Code.
Im also satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Miss T lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
Miss Ts personal circumstances led her to believe there was a possibility she hadnt 
paid the correct amount of tax  making the basis of the scam more believable.
Miss T was provided with legitimate looking paperwork with both HMRC and 
Supreme Court headed paper, detailing the payments stated as due by the 
fraudsters and listing the charges Miss T was being accused of. Given the pressure 
Miss T wouldve felt during the call with the fraudster and the threat of arrest that had 
been made, I think this paperwork wouldve been convincing to Miss T that the call 
was genuine.
Miss T had searched the telephone number online that she was called from and saw 
that it corresponded with the RCJ. As explained above, I dont think its 
unreasonable, in the circumstances of the complaint and the pressure Miss T was 
under, for her to not have joined the dots and considered that the fraudsters may also 
have spoofed this number. Monzo has also suggested that Miss T shouldve been 
concerned that the RCJ website specifies that it is concerned with primarily civil, non-
criminal litigation. Again I dont think its unreasonable for Miss T to not have 
questioned this, given the pressured environment she was in and also the legalistic 
terms referred to, which may not even be fully understood by a layperson.
So in summary, Im not persuaded that Monzo has shown that Miss T lacked a reasonable 
basis of belief for making the transaction in question, or that she ignored an effective 
warning when making the payment. Monzo should therefore refund the funds Miss T lost to 
the fraudster.    final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint against 
Monzo Bank Ltd. I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund Miss T the £5,619 she lost to the scam
For the first three payments Miss T made, pay 8% simple interest, from the date 
Monzo declined Miss Ts claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
For the fourth payment to the sixth, pay 8% simple interest from the date the 
payments were made (11 August 2020) to the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman