DRN-3771469
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by increasing his 
overdraft limit. He says Lloyds acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to his account 
when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr M had an overdraft with Lloyds with a limit of £1,000. Mr M applied online and was 
approved for an increased limit of £2,000 in April 2018 and £3,500 December 2018.
Mr M contacted Lloyds in September 2020 to discuss his financial situation and applied for a 
consolidation loan. Mr M confirmed he was being assisted by his family and was up to date 
with his bills. Lloyds declined Mr M a loan but refunded £30 of daily overdraft fees and later 
£100 and supressed the daily overdraft interest from 10 September 2020 to 17 June 2021. 
After which Mr M repaid the overdraft by taking out a personal loan with another lender.
Mr M complained to Lloyds that it acted irresponsibly by allowing him to increase his 
overdraft limit on a number of occasions.  Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr M 
was dis-satisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought that although the 
increases in limit of Mr Ms overdraft limit were reasonable based on the information Lloyds 
had, they felt that Lloyds ought to have known Mr M was in financial difficulty by the 
overdraft renewal date on 24 April 2020.
Lloyds disagreed. It says that it sent many communications to Mr M inviting him to get in 
touch if he was in financial difficulty but didnt do so until September 2020. Lloyds says Mr M 
chose to seek assistance from family and friends to reduce his overdraft instead of accepting 
the help and support it had offered and that was his decision to make. Lloyds has asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is it 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M would be 
able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our website sets out 
what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Mr Ms overdraft is what we refer to as an open-ended credit facility. This means the checks 
Lloyds carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr M would 
be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
During the period December 2017 to December 2018 Lloyds approved overdraft limit 
increases from £1,000 to £3,500. A further application for an increase in December 2019 
was declined. The applications for the limit increases were made online. Lloyds says all 
applications were credit scored taking into account information Mr M provided about his 
income and how he had managed his account with it, as well as information held by other 
lenders provided through credit reference checks. And based on this information Lloyds was 
satisfied his score was high enough to provide him with the overdraft facility he requested.
I accept that Mr Ms financial position may well have been worse than the credit checks 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to Lloyds at the time. And it is possible 
that further checks might have told Lloyds this. But Lloyds was reasonably entitled to rely on 
the credit check it carried out. 
And having viewed Mr Ms statements leading up to the increases I can see that although Mr 
M did use his overdraft he was regularly able to bring it right down with incoming credits and 
sometimes saw and was able at times to maintain a credit balance and never went over his 
limit. There were no arrears reported on Mr Ms credit file and the monthly credits to his 
account - though not always the same amount  roughly matched what hed declared.  So I 
think Lloydss checks went far enough and I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in agreeing to 
increase his limit up until the last occasion it did in December 2018. 
But by the middle of 2019 and certainly the renewal date of 24 April 2020 I think it was 
evident he was in financial difficulty. Mr Ms statements showed that he hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time and spent the majority of time at 
the top of his limit. Direct debits were frequently being returned and at times Mr M was 
exceeding his limit. Although there were still some credits coming into the account overall 
the overdraft wasnt reducing. 
Lloydss own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not 
prolonged day-to-day expenditure. Mr Ms statements show he was clearly struggling to 
manage his overdraft limit with Lloyds, there was little money coming in and when it did 
come in it went straight out again to service other accounts or pay back loans and credit 
cards. 
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
And having carefully considered everything provided, think that Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from 24 April 2020. By this point, it 
ought to have been clear that Mr M was in no position to sustainably repay what he owed 
within a reasonable period of time. I accept that Lloyds did offer support and assisted Mr M 
when he got in contact with it in September 2020 but this is months after his account was 
showing signs of financial difficulty.
So I think that Mr Ms overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that Mr 
M wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Ms overdraft usage early enough I think it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably.Mr M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ms overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from 24 April 2020 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ms credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft on 24 April 2020.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and direct it pay the 
fair compensation outlined above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman