DRN-1504717
The complaint
Mrs J complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance ('PPI') policy in 1997 in connection with a store card.
What happened
Mrs J complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 1997. It was added to her store 
card account which she applied for in the store. She said she didnt know it was added and 
she didnt need it. None of the terms and conditions were explained.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs J disagreed with our 
adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
Mrs J added, through her representative, that her sick pay was adequate for her so she says 
she didn't need PPI; the benefit of the PPI did not outweigh the cost; she could have relied 
on other sources of income.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs J's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA produced 
a copy of Mrs Js credit application and it showed that Mrs J  or someone on her behalf  
ticked the box agreeing to PPI being added to her account. Mrs J says she did not consent 
to this but I can see she has also declined other things offered with the card. So I think its 
reasonable to assume she chose to have PPI and by signing the form, she consented to add 
it to her account. So I think it was made reasonably clear that PPI was optional and that it 
had been added to the card account.
I noted Mrs J was eligible to buy the policy so this does not provide a ground to uphold her 
complaint.
The policy wasn't recommended so AXA had to make sure Mrs J received enough 
information which was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
decision.
Its possible the information given to Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. I noted she had a good employee benefit which she said she did rely on some years after the sale, but I think 
the PPI could have lasted for longer than and in addition to her decreasing sick pay. So I 
dont think her employee benefits made the policy less suitable for her.
Mrs J also said she had access to savings, a car which she could have sold and her family 
would have helped her. But she may not have been able to call on these for support at some 
unknown point in the future. So I dont think they made the policy unsuitable for her.
It also looks like PPI was affordable at the time of the sale. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI cost and benefits would have put her off from taking out the cover.
AXA should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). I don't 
know how they did this, but it does not appear that Mrs J was affected by the main 
exclusions. So - even if she'd been given a full list of the exclusions - I don't think it would 
have put her off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional and Mrs 
J was probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am not going to 
uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman