DRN-2770183
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has settled a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged building society account.
On 1 March 2020, Mr and Mrs F travelled abroad on holiday. They were due to fly back to 
the UK on 25 March 2020. However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs Fs 
airline cancelled their return flight home. So Mr and Mrs F got in touch with UKIs assistance 
company to ask for help getting back. At that point, UKI told Mr and Mrs F it was down to 
their airline to rearrange their flight, as it had cancelled it.
Mr and Mrs F got back in touch with the assistance team on 27 April 2020. They explained 
that theyd tried to book return flights, which had all been cancelled and their next booked 
flight was scheduled for 1 June 2020. At that point, the assistance team offered to arrange a 
flight back to the UK for Mr and Mrs F on 4 May 2020. It offered to arrange car transport to 
an airport, a flight back to a UK airport and then onwards transport back to their home. 
However, Mr and Mrs F felt it would be safer for them to remain where they were, due to the 
Covid-19 situation back in the UK. As the 31-day trip cover limit had also expired by this 
point, UKI let Mr and Mrs F know that it wouldnt be prepared to offer any further cover after 
the date itd offered to fly them back to the UK. 
On 5 July 2020, Mr and Mrs F flew back to the UK. They made a claim to UKI under the 
curtailment section of the policy for their additional accommodation costs; costs of airport 
transfers and kennel costs.
UKI considered Mr and Mrs Fs claim. It said that as Mr and Mrs Fs trip wasnt cut short, 
their claim wasnt covered by the curtailment section of the policy. It said that Mr and Mrs Fs 
claim fell within the scope of travel delay, because they hadnt been able to return to the UK. 
It explained that Mr and Mrs F could have their claim considered under either the policy 
terms which applied when the trip was booked, which provided a delay benefit of £1000 per 
person. Or they could have the claim assessed under the current terms, which offered a 
delay benefit of £250 per person, together with kennel costs. As the settlement Mr and Mrs F 
would be entitled to under the old policy was higher than if the claim was settled under the 
new terms and conditions, UKI decided to apply the old wording. This meant that Mr and Mrs 
F would be paid a settlement of £2000.
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy with UKIs offer and they complained. They maintained that the 
claim should be settled under the curtailment section of the policy.
UKI then agreed to pay Mr and Mrs Fs accommodation costs and some transport costs 
between 25 March and 3 May 2020 on an ex-gratia basis, together with its policy liability of 
£2000 for travel delay. Mr and Mrs F told UKI that they paid for the accommodation using 
cash, which was partly loaned from friends. The accommodation provider told UKI that the 
costs had been settled in cash. But UKI told Mr and Mrs F that theyd need to provide 
evidence from their bank showing their withdrawal of their own cash and a letter from their 
friends setting out that theyd loaned Mr and Mrs F the money. 
Mr and Mrs F told UKI that theyd accept the ex-gratia offer (which totalled £5460.75) as an 
interim payment and they then brought their complaint to us. As Mr and Mrs F didnt provide 
the evidence UKI had asked for, it decided to withdraw the ex-gratia offer and paid Mr and 
Mrs F £2000 under the delay section of the policy. It told us that it would consider paying the 
ex-gratia element of the claim if Mr and Mrs F could provide the evidence it required.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld. She felt that as Mr 
and Mrs F hadnt cut their trip short, their claim wasnt covered by the curtailment section of 
the policy. She didnt think the assistance team had done anything wrong by not arranging 
Mr and Mrs F a return flight when they first called up, as it would usually only look to arrange 
repatriation if a policyholder was unwell or injured. She was satisfied that UKI had correctly 
settled Mr and Mrs Fs claim under the delay section of the policy. And she felt that UKIs 
offer to pay the ex-gratia element of the claim if Mr and Mrs F provided it with the evidence it 
required was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. They maintained that their claim should be considered under the 
curtailment section of the policy, as this provided cover for additional accommodation 
expenses if the FCO advised against travel. They felt theyd acted reasonably by not 
travelling home through Covid-19 hotspots and it was unreasonable for UKI to limit 
settlement to 3 May 2020. They also said that UKI had never looked into a one-way self-
drive option, which they wouldve taken up. They felt that UKIs decision to retract its ex-
gratia offer was unfair and unreasonable. And they told us that the friends who loaned them 
money did not want to provide any evidence.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think UKI has settled Mr and Mrs Fs claim fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Fs policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether UKI 
treated them fairly.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs F that while Ive summarised their submissions and the 
background to their complaint, Ive carefully considered everything theyve said and sent us. 
In making my decision though, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Should UKI have treated Mr and Mrs Fs claim under the curtailment section of the policy?
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs Fs contract with 
UKI. I understand how strongly Mr and Mrs F feel that their claim should be assessed under 
the Cutting Short Your Trip section of the policy. Thats because this section of the policy 
provides cover if the FCO advises policyholders to cut short their trip. Theres also reference 
to cover being provided if a policyholder incurs additional accommodation expenses and I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs F feel that their circumstances fall squarely within the scope of this 
cover.But I think the policy makes it clear that this section only applies when a policyholder cuts 
short their trip and returns to the UK early. I agree that it covers a policyholder taking this 
course of action if the FCO issue advice to do so and I appreciate the FCO did advise UK 
nationals abroad to return to the UK. But its clear that Mr and Mrs F didnt cut short their trip 
as a result of the FCO advice. In fact, it was extended by some months. So while I agree that 
they incurred significant additional accommodation costs as a result of staying abroad due to 
Covid-19, these werent incurred due to the curtailment of their trip. This means I dont think 
it was unfair for UKI to conclude that their situation wasnt covered by this section of the 
policy.
The policy does provide travel delay cover though, if a policyholders prevented from 
returning to the UK on their planned return date. This provides a daily benefit amount up to a 
defined policy limit. I think, given Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances, that it was appropriate for 
UKI to assess their claim under this section of the policy. UKI considered which contract 
ought to apply to Mr and Mrs Fs claim  the terms which prevailed when the trip was 
booked, or the terms which applied at the time of the claim. UKI calculated that under the old 
policy terms, Mr and Mrs F would be entitled to a benefit amount of £1000 per person  a 
total settlement of £2000. Under the new terms, theyd be entitled to a total of £1500. So UKI 
decided to apply the more favourable terms to Mr and Mrs Fs claim. I think this was a very 
reasonable approach from UKI.
Did UKI handle Mr and Mrs Fs claim fairly?
Its clear that Mr and Mrs F first called UKIs assistance team after their airline had cancelled 
their original return flight. At this point, UKI didnt offer to arrange a new flight, as it said that 
given the airline had cancelled their pre-booked flight, it was responsible for returning Mr and 
Mrs F to the UK. While I can understand why this may have been frustrating, I dont think 
UKI acted unreasonably here. I say that because UKI generally covers repatriation of its 
policyholders under the Emergency Medical and Travel costs section of the policy, if they 
become ill or injured and its deemed medically necessary. It doesnt cover repatriation due 
to flight cancellations by a carrier.
However, once it became clear that Mr and Mrs F werent able to find an alternative flight 
back to the UK, the assistance team did offer to try and arrange their repatriation. I think this 
was a very fair response from the assistance team. It offered Mr and Mrs F transport to and 
from the airports abroad and at home to try and help them get back to the UK. Mr and Mrs F 
declined to take up this offer. But, while I can understand why Mr and Mrs F might not have 
wanted to travel via the route UKI suggested, I dont think it was unfair for UKI to withdraw 
cover at that point. Mr and Mrs F were over the 31-day policy trip limit by this time and I think 
UKI had taken reasonable steps to try and help them to mitigate their costs. I also think it did 
enough to let Mr and Mrs F know that they wouldnt be entitled to any further cover if they 
chose not to return home. I dont think UKIs proposal was inherently unreasonable and I 
wouldnt have expected it to do anything more here. So I think it was fair for it to limit any 
potential settlement to the date on which Mr and Mrs F couldve returned home if theyd 
accepted UKIs offer.
Despite the fact that strictly, Mr and Mrs F were only entitled to delay benefit, UKI felt given 
the strict lockdown in the country they were in, it was unlikely they couldve found flights to 
get them back any sooner than 4 May 2020. So it decided it would be fair for it to pay their 
additional accommodation costs and a taxi fare between 25 March and 3 May 2020. This 
offer was made on an ex-gratia basis, because UKI had no policy liability to pay this amount. 
I think this was more than fair and reasonable. The total amount UKI offered was around 
£5460, subject to Mr and Mrs F providing sufficient substantiation of their claim.Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show that they have a valid 
claim. The policy terms and conditions also state that policyholders must provide UKI with all 
of the evidence it asks for to consider a claim. UKI has asked Mr and Mrs F to provide 
evidence to show they paid their accommodation provider in cash. I appreciate Mr and Mrs F 
have already provided an invoice from their accommodation provider and other information 
in support of their claim. But given they said they paid for some of the accommodation with 
cash from their friends, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to ask for a written 
statement from their friend to support this. And I also dont think it was unreasonable for UKI 
to ask Mr and Mrs F to provide bank statements showing the cash withdrawals they made 
while they were abroad. As Mr and Mrs F didnt provide this evidence, I dont think it was 
unfair for UKI not to pay the ex-gratia settlement when it paid the travel delay claim.
Did UKI act unfairly by not paying the ex-gratia offer?
Mr and Mrs F say that as they accepted the ex-gratia offer, UKI is bound to pay it. Ive 
listened to a call between Mr F and UKI in which the offer was discussed. While Mr F did say 
hed accept the settlement, he told the call handler that this would be as an interim payment 
and it wouldnt represent full and final settlement of his claim. So I dont think I could fairly 
find here that Mr F did accept UKIs offer. I think instead he effectively made a counter-offer, 
which UKI wasnt bound to accept. And I think that Mr and Mrs F were aware of the 
information that UKI needed to see in order to agree to pay the ex-gratia element of their 
claim. As Ive set out above, as this wasnt forthcoming, I think it was fair for UKI to only pay 
its contractual liability when it settled the claim.
UKI has told us that if Mr and Mrs F provide the evidence its asked them for, then it will 
consider paying the ex-gratia element of their claim. I think this is fair and reasonable and its 
open to Mr and Mrs F to get in touch with UKI to provide it with the information it requires if 
theyd like to take up this option. If theyre unhappy with the way UKI considers any further 
evidence, they may be able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone.
But overall, Im satisfied that UKI has treated Mr and Mrs F fairly and has settled their claim 
in line with its contractual liability. So Im not telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman