DRN-3918081
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain that Nationwide Building Society would not allow them to reduce 
their overdraft as they had planned to reduce it.
What happened
Mrs and Mr C tried to reduce their overdraft on a monthly basis on their joint current account, 
but they say Nationwide didnt allow them to do this. They made a complaint to Nationwide. 
Nationwide did not uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. They said the account wasnt eligible 
for a new overdraft limit which was higher than £1,000. But the current limit was £2,000, 
which meant that since the overdraft limit was granted, their eligibility had changed. 
Nationwide said that they review all overdrafts every six months to ensure they remain 
suitable for their members. They said when the reviews were due, they may look to reduce 
the limit, depending on eligibility. Nationwide said that reducing their overdraft limit would be 
considered placing a new limit on their account for a new six month period, which meant if 
the new limit was higher than £1,000, they would be given a new facility for longer than they 
would be eligible for. They said even though they werent able to reduce the overdraft limit, 
Mrs and Mr C can still reduce their balance which would reduce the amount of interest 
charged. 
Mrs and Mr C brought their complaint to our service. They said they had three current 
accounts with Nationwide and the joint account was the only account where they couldnt 
reduce their overdraft by a small amount each month over a period of time. They said they 
usually reduced their overdrafts for their sole accounts via the Nationwide application (app). 
But they werent able to do this on the joint account, so they contacted Nationwide. But they 
were told they couldnt do this as this was down to their lending criteria, but they wouldnt tell 
them what the lending criteria was. They said they were given options to either reduce the 
overdraft in full, or to reduce it by £1,000, which they say was costing them about £50 a 
month in charges. They say they later found out that they were able to reduce the overdraft 
limit via the app and now its been reduced to £0. They say what happened also affected 
them obtaining credit with third party providers.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. He said although they mentioned 
they paid more interest because they couldnt reduce the limit gradually to an amount more 
than £1,000, interest was only charged on the overdraft amount, not the total overdraft limit. 
So there was nothing stopping them from self-managing the limit down.
Mrs and Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. They said the central 
issue is that they have three bank accounts which are exactly the same, but the three 
accounts weren't treated as the same. They said Nationwide had quietly changed the 
system which allowed them to then reduce down the overdraft limit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mrs and Mr C has about Nationwide not allowing them 
to reduce their overdraft limit by the amount they wanted to on a monthly basis as they had 
been able to on their single current accounts with Nationwide. But Id like to explain to Mrs 
and Mr C that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run their overdraft 
procedures including by how much they should allow a customer to reduce their overdraft 
by. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the 
power to instruct Nationwide to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered what Mrs and Mr C have said about the issues affecting them obtaining third 
party credit. But the third party providers will also have their own lending criteria which would 
comprise of multiple factors. So Im unable to say that their issues with Nationwide was the 
sole reason their applications with other providers may not have resulted in the outcome 
they expected.
I know Mrs and Mr C have said they were able to reduce their overdrafts on their sole 
accounts via the app with how much they liked. As Mrs and Mr C are aware, Nationwide 
have their own internal lending criteria, which they say has affected the decision on the joint 
account. Nationwide arent required to make this commercially sensitive information public  
as details of this lending criteria could possibly be gamed if this was made public, so I dont 
find it unreasonable that Nationwide didnt share this with them.
In addition, the overdraft limits may not have been reduced on the sole accounts by 
Nationwide. Whereas here, the overdraft limit on the joint account was £2,000 but it was 
reducing to £1,000. So if Nationwide hadnt imposed a reduction of the overdraft on the sole 
current accounts, this could be a reason as to why the accounts were treated differently. But 
Im satisfied that a joint account would be treated differently than a sole account anyway  
even if it is the same product as the sole accounts. I say this as there are two parties on the 
joint account and therefore there is more information for the business to process in ensuring 
they are responsibly lending to their members. 
Ive considered what Mrs and Mr C has said about them paying more interest as a result of 
them not being able to gradually reduce the overdraft balance month by month. But Im not 
persuaded by this. I say this as the interest was only due on the amount which was 
overdrawn. So even if Mrs and Mr C werent able to reduce the overdraft limit to a specified 
amount, if they had reduced their overdrawn balance, then they would have paid less 
interest on the account, regardless of the arranged overdraft limit on the account. 
Nationwides final response was clear that reducing Mrs and Mr Cs overdraft limit would be 
considered placing a new limit on their account for a new six month period, which meant if 
the new limit was higher than £1,000, they would be given a new facility for longer than they 
would be eligible for. So this is why they couldnt do this via the app unlike their sole 
accounts. In addition, Im satisfied that once the overdraft limit was £1,000, Mrs and Mr C 
would be able to reduce the overdraft to lower amounts via the app anyway. I know they may 
dispute this, but I say this because the overdraft limit that Nationwide were comfortable 
lending them at the time was £1,000 as confirmed by the letter they sent Mrs and Mr C dated 
28 January 2022.
This would be a different scenario for Nationwide to reduce an arranged overdraft limit for 
example from £2,000 to £1,500 when they are only comfortable with an arranged overdraft 
facility of £1,000 for Mrs and Mr Cs sole account. However, once they had the £1,000 
arranged overdraft facility, they would be eligible for a lower arranged overdraft facility 
(depending on their eligibility), and this is why its likely the app worked at a later time as 
opposed to what Mrs and Mr C believe that Nationwide had quietly made changes on their system. So it follows I dont require Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman