DRN-4232381
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund money he lost following an investment, 
which he believes was a scam.
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them all here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
In 2014 Mr L heard about an investment opportunity, through an advert, that interested him.  
Hes told us he was provided with information about the investment company that assured 
him that they were genuine, so he decided to invest. Mr L made the following investments, 
totalling £46,202.76, using his Lloyds debit card;
21 May 2014 £5,952.38
21 May 2014 £5,952.38
21 May 2014 £5,592.38
22 May 2014 £4,753.98
22 May 2014 £5,764.20
22 May 2014 £8,913.72
22 May 2014 £8,913.72
Mr L has explained that he was given access to an investment platform, which hes told us 
he accessed on a weekly basis and he could see a profit was being made. Mr L was able to 
make withdrawals, in February 2015, totalling £6,574.15 and has said he didnt have any 
problems making these withdrawals.
But in June 2021, when Mr L attempted to make further deposits, he was told the investment 
company had ceased operations in the UK and that, since 2020, it hadnt been able to 
service clients in the UK and it was no longer responsible if UK customers hadnt moved 
their money before the investment company had ceased activity.
Mr L believed hed been scammed and so raised the matter with Lloyds. Lloyds looked into 
the concerns that Mr L had raised and issued its final response in June 2023, but it didnt 
uphold Mr Ls complaint. In summary, it said in situations such as this it would try and 
request a refund through Visa, but as the time limit had passed in which it could do this, it 
was unable to help further. Lloyds has added that it didnt class the payments Mr L had 
made as fraudulent transactions.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr L then brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things but didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. In summary, he didnt 
consider Lloyds had done anything wrong in not raising a chargeback and, alongside this, he 
didnt think it was clear that there was ever an intent to scam Mr L.
He said this because Mr L had explained that, in 2014 when he invested, he had researched 
the company and they were registered with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Our 
Investigator added that Mr L had been able to withdraw funds from the investment and had 
logged on to the platform many times over a number of years. Overall, our Investigator didnt 
consider the actions of the investment company were typical of a company scamming 
people. Our Investigator added that even if Lloyds had intervened at the time he made the 
payments, he didnt think there wouldve been enough evidence to have suggested to Lloyds 
that this was a scam.
Mr L didnt agree with our Investigators view. In brief, he maintained that he believed this 
was a scam.
As agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Having considered everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Lloyds to 
refund the money Mr L sent. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one Mr L was 
hoping for and I can understand why he wants to try and recover this money. But having 
thought about Lloyds actions, I am unable to say it has a responsibility for refunding the 
money Mr L sent. I will explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations, in force at the time, the bank had a duty to 
execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. It is not disputed that Mr L 
authorised the payments. So the starting position is that he is liable for them. The relevant 
regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks also have a duty to protect 
consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the obligation to 
warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have been engaged if 
there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payment was going to a fraudster; meaning 
that Lloyds could have delayed the payments while concerns were discussed with Mr L.
So, in order to determine that Lloyds ought to have done more here, I would need to be 
satisfied that the investment company were operating a scam when the payments were 
made. I have borne in mind that there is a high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud. 
Even if a merchant can be viewed as having acted unreasonably or unethically, that does 
not necessarily demonstrate they set out with an intent to defraud their customers.
In order to conclude that the payments Mr L made were part of a scam, Id need to be 
reasonably satisfied from the available evidence that the investment company was not 
legitimate and had set out to defraud him. But based on what I know, I have not seen 
sufficient evidence to fairly and reasonably establish that the investment company set out 
with the intent to defraud Mr L. Im also mindful that what has happened here doesnt carry 
the typical hallmarks for an investment scam. I say that because;
- Mr L has explained that at the time he made the payment he had done his due 
diligence on the investment company and could see it was a genuine registered 
company and that hed also checked the FCAs website and it didnt have any scam warnings. This is not what we usually would expect to see if the company had been 
set up with fraudulent purposes in mind.
- Mr L was able to withdraw £6,574.15 over a year after he made his initial  
investments and has explained he didnt have any problems withdrawing this money, 
again this would not be usual in the case of a scam. Scammers tend to be out to 
maximise the amount of money they manage to get out of people  so  whilst we do 
sometimes see scammers sending money to victims, it would normally be as a 
return on their initial investment in order to incentivise them to send more money to 
the scammer. It is not typical for scammers to return such high amounts and it seems 
unlikely that a scammer would send these funds so many months after receiving the 
scam payments. More typical of an investment scam would be to see a scammer 
refusing to return contact at this point in the scam, or trying to illicit further scam 
funds when their victim tries to withdraw their investment by telling them to cash it in 
they need to pay fees or taxes.
- Mr Ls concerns came to light when he tried to invest further funds. The company    
Mr L contacted explained that they were no longer servicing customers in the UK and 
it couldnt take any further deposits. It seems highly unlikely that a fraudster would 
decline the opportunity to take further funds from one of their victims.
Im also mindful here that the investment company were seemingly still contactable after    
Mr L had made the payments and he was able to view his trading platform for many years 
after he had invested. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who more often than not 
are not able to be contacted after they have taken a victims money.
After taking everything into careful consideration, on balance, I cant safely say this meets 
the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a 
bad investment in a company that ultimately ceased trading in the UK. This being the case, I 
dont think Lloyds have treated Mr L unfairly in not considering this as a fraud.
I dont underestimate Mr Ls strength of feeling in his belief that he has been scammed. So 
for the sake of completeness, I think it would be helpful for me to add that, even if I did think 
this was a scam, which for the avoidance of doubt and for reasons explained I dont, I dont 
think Lloyds missed an opportunity to prevent Mr L making these payments. And I agree with 
our Investigators position that there wasnt enough going on for Lloyds to have identified   
Mr L may have been at risk of financial harm, even if it had of intervened when he made the 
payments. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Lloyds made the 
payments, it was complying with Mr Ls instructions. At the time, Mr L wanted to pay the 
investment company and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct 
account details.
But even if I considered that Lloyds ought to have identified the payments as unusual or 
suspicious and should have intervened, at some point, to discuss the payments with Mr L 
before allowing them to be progressed, Im not persuaded it would have made a difference. I 
think it more likely than not Mr L would have continued to make the payments and I dont 
think Lloyds would fairly and reasonably have been able to have foreseen that Mr L was 
potentially at risk of financial harm.
I should be clear that I cant know for certain how events wouldve transpired if Lloyds had 
intervened. I must reach a conclusion based on the balance of probabilities and that conclusion must be informed by the available evidence. Having considered this carefully, Im 
not persuaded that a proportionate intervention by Lloyds wouldve prevented Mr L from 
making the payments. I dont think its more likely than not that a Lloyds employee would 
have been able to identify that Mr L may have been at risk of financial harm, by asking him 
questions about the payments.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr L would have told Lloyds the purpose of the payments was to 
invest. With this in mind Id have expected Lloyds to ask Mr L some further questions about 
the payments, in the context of the particular features of an investment scam. On balance, 
Im persuaded Mr L, given the due diligence hes told us hed carried out, would more likely 
than not have been able to answer these confidently and plausibly. It follows that I dont think 
the answers Mr L would likely have provided, would have given Lloyds cause for concern 
that he might be at risk of financial harm or the victim of a scam and I think Mr L would have 
been confident he was making payments towards a legitimate investment.
Im mindful that Mr L, since bringing his complaint to this service, has said that there was a 
FCA warning about the investment company in 2013. But even if Lloyds had taken the steps, 
at the point Mr L was making the payments, to advise Mr L to check for any warnings on the 
FCA website, I dont think it would have made a difference. I say that as Mr L has said 
himself that he did check for FCA warnings at the time and didnt see anything that 
concerned him.
Finally, Ive considered whether the chargeback process was an option for Mr L. A  
chargeback is a way for a debit card provider to reclaim money from a suppliers bank when  
a consumer doesnt get the goods or services they paid for. It isnt a legal right and theres 
no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The process is 
subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Visa  and strict criteria 
and time limits apply. To be clear, Lloyds doesnt set the rules and I cant change them.
Visas rules say a chargeback must be initiated within 120 days of the last date that the 
consumer expected to receive the service  and one cant be initiated more than 540 days 
from the date of payment in any event. The evidence Ive seen shows that Mr L didnt raise 
this matter with Lloyds until January 2023, which was more than 540 days from the dates of 
the payments he had made. So I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong when it chose not to 
attempt a chargeback in January 2023, as it was too late to do so under the scheme rules.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation that Mr L finds himself in and it is 
unfortunate that he has sent money and clearly things havent gone as he expected. But for 
the reasons Ive explained Im not persuaded Lloyds has done anything wrong and so it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask it to refund Mr L the money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman