DRN-4060231
The complaint
Mr W complains about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G)
to turn down his income protection claim. He also complains about L&Gs handling of his
claim.
What happened
Mr W has an income protection policy with L&G, the aim of which is to pay benefit if he cant
work due to illness or injury. He took out the policy (through his financial adviser) in May
2021.
In September 2021 Mr W stopped work after injuring his knee and made a claim under the
policy. L&G assessed the claim, and thought Mr W had misrepresented information about
his right knee when taking out the policy. L&G said if it had known that information, it would
have applied an exclusion for claims relating to Mr Ws right knee joint, tendons, ligaments or
muscles.
L&G therefore applied the exclusion retrospectively. As Mr Ws claim related to his right
knee, it turned down the claim. Mr W complained to L&G about its claims decision, and also
about its handling of the claim. He said hed had to go back to work sooner than he would
have done if his claim had been accepted.
L&G offered Mr W £600 compensation for its poor handling of the claim, but maintained its
decision to turn down his claim. Unhappy with this, Mr W brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought the question asked in
the application made it seem that L&G wanted to know about illnesses/medical conditions,
rather than injuries. She recommended L&G remove the exclusion and pay the claim. Whilst
she thought the £600 offered by L&G for the delays was reasonable, she recommended it
pay Mr W a further £250 compensation for the trouble and upset he had been caused by its
claims decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 March 2023. Heres what I said:
As the complains concerns misrepresentation, Ive considered the matter in accordance with
the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act
2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract.
L&G says that Mr W answered the below question incorrectly:
during the last 5 years have you contacted a doctor, nurse or other health professional
for:
lupus, fibromyalgia, gout or any type of arthritis, neck, back, spine or joint trouble, for
example rheumatoid arthritis, sciatica?
I think this question was clear. Mr Ws answer to the question was no.
Mr W says the question on the application gave examples of arthritis and sciatica, which he
thinks are long-term or ongoing conditions. He explains that he didnt have any long-term
joint trouble or medical conditions and his knee injury was a one-off accident, and so thats
why he answered no to the question.
Ive therefore looked at the medical evidence.
In October 2017, Mr W sustained a twisting injury to his knee. He visited a minor injuries unit
as he couldnt extend his knee completely. The doctor examined him and found his knee to
be stable. His x-rays showed no fractures, and he was discharged from the clinic as the
doctor didnt think he had any bony or soft tissue injury.
In December 2017, Mr W went to see his GP as he was still experiencing pain and swelling
to his right knee, and his knee tended to give way. He was referred for an MRI scan. He had
the MRI scan in February 2018 and was diagnosed with a lateral meniscus tear, ACL
sprain/partial tear.
When Mr W injured his knee again in 2021, he advised his consultant that hed previously
injured his knee (in 2017) and had been treated without surgery. However, when he returned
to sports, his knee would give way and he had to rely on a brace. Also, after physical activity,
the knee would swell, and he would have to rest it before it went back to normal. Although
Mr W advised our investigator that this only happened the first time that he played sport after
his injury, I note he told another consultant that his knee was asymptomatic (after the 2017
injury) except for when he played sports when he used to get a lot of swelling.
I think its clear from the application question that arthritis and sciatica were given as
examples, and the question doesnt suggest that joint trouble needed to be long-term or
ongoing. Whilst I appreciate Mr W was not having treatment for his knee injury when he took
out the policy, its still the case that hed seen a doctor (and had undergone hospital
investigations) for joint trouble in the previous five years. Consequently, I think he should
have said yes in response to the question.
So I find it was reasonable for L&G to conclude that Mr W failed to take reasonable care
when answering the above question, and so there was misrepresentation.
L&G has provided this service with underwriting evidence which shows that it would have
applied an exclusion to Mr Ws policy if it had known of his knee injury. That means the
misrepresentation was qualifying, according to CIDRA.
L&G has categorised the misrepresentation as careless. Under CIDRA, that means that L&G
can take the action that it would have done, if it had known of Mr Ws knee injury from the
outset. So the remedy available to L&G under CIDRA is that it may retrospectively apply the
exclusion. Im satisfied L&G acted fairly in doing so.
As Mr Ws claim relates to his right knee, this would fall under the exclusion. Whilst I
recognise that Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I find that it was reasonable for
L&G to therefore turn down his claim.
I agree with our investigator that L&G caused unnecessary delays in dealing with the claim. I
appreciate L&G needed information from Mr Ws GP, and also that it was obliged to
investigate the misrepresentation. Nonetheless, I think it took too long for L&G to make a
claims decision, particularly since Mr W had made it clear that he was struggling financially.
I also think L&G ought to have been more proactive in updating Mr W, as he often had to
chase it for updates.L&G has accepted that it did not provide Mr W with a good service and offered him total
compensation of £600 to recognise this. Im satisfied that was reasonable in the
circumstances, and reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr W by L&Gs
handling of the matter.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make before I made a 
final decision. 
Mr W didnt respond with any further comments. 
L&G responded to say it accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, as neither party has provided any further comments for me to consider, my 
provisional findings should stand, and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited had made an
offer to pay £600 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. I
dont intend to require L&G to remove the exclusion and pay the claim.
So my decision is that L&G should pay £600 (if it has not already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman