DRN-4152723
The complaint
Ms Rs complaint is about a mortgage she granted to Santander UK Plc (then known as 
Abbey National) in 2007. 
Ms R says that, because the mortgage has been securitised, there is no longer any valid 
mortgage and it is null and void. Ms R has also raised various points about the creation of 
money and the invalidity of mortgages generally.
What happened
The history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so there is no need for me to 
repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In 
addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Ms R being identified. 
Our investigator explained to Ms R that mortgage securitisation falls outside our remit. So 
whilst he noted Ms Rs arguments about why she thought this rendered her mortgage void, 
he was satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander to expect payment of the mortgage.
Ms R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, raising numerous 
points she would like answers to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. 
Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to investigate a complaint. So 
although Ive noted the questions which Ms R would like answered to her satisfaction, its not 
my role either to answer her questions, follow her directions, put Ms Rs questions to 
Santander or act as her representative or go-between on this case.
I will also clarify that Ms R is incorrect in stating that The FOS is a regulatory body. We are 
an informal dispute-resolution service, not a regulatory body and have no supervisory or 
regulatory powers over Santander.
As the investigator explained, securitisation of mortgage accounts is not something that falls 
within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service. This means that I wont be 
commenting any further on this, as I have no legal power to do so under our rules.
Im familiar with all the arguments Ms R has put to us about why she believes her mortgage 
isnt valid, why there is no such thing as money, and why she thinks she is the victim of 
fraud. These are theories that have been promoted on the internet for a number of years. I 
wont address any of these points, because to do so would be to lend them credence, when 
in truth they have no validity either in law or in fact.
However, Im satisfied that Santander is entitled to seek repayment of the loan it advanced 
to Ms R, in return for which she gave the bank a mortgage over her property. I appreciate 
that Ms R feels differently, and wants her mortgage declared null and void. However, I dont 
have any power to decide whether or not a mortgage contract is valid or not; only a court can 
do so. I note that Ms R has, in fact, acknowledged that her case needs to be heard in court. 
If I had the power to decide that the mortgage had never existed (which I dont), taking this to 
its logical conclusion, the transaction Ms R entered into to purchase the property would 
therefore also be null and void, the property would have to be returned to the party from 
whom Ms R purchased it, and the sellers solicitors would have to return the mortgage 
advance to Santander. I am fairly certain that this is not what Ms R wants, but instead would 
prefer to keep her property, but without any liability to pay Santander back for the mortgage 
funds advanced to her. 
I appreciate Ms Rs beliefs are strongly-held, and I am sorry she has been taken in by 
internet theories that claim she can have her mortgage cancelled when, in fact, adhering to 
these theories simply results in arrears and financial difficulties. It is still not too late for Ms R 
to resolve the situation with Santander.  Given that there are arrears on the mortgage, if 
Ms R is unable or unwilling to reach a payment arrangement with Santander, the bank will 
be entitled  as a last resort  to issue possession proceedings. 
If this should happen (and I sincerely hope the situation does not reach that point), Ms R will 
then be free to raise in court all the points shes raised with us about why she considers her 
mortgage to be invalid, and ask the court to declare the mortgage null and void. However, I 
dont know of any mortgagor who has succeeded in having their mortgage cancelled by a 
court on the basis of the internet theories Ms R has raised with us. 
Ive noted Ms Rs resistance to the investigators suggestion that she might want to seek 
legal advice from a qualified solicitor, but this option remains open to her. I would not want 
Ms R to underestimate the seriousness of the position she is in if the mortgage arrears 
remain unpaid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman