DRN-2739681
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Amtrust Europe Limited. He isnt happy that it turned down a 
claim for his car under his Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) Policy insurance.
What happened
Mr S made a claim under his motor insurance policy and his car was deemed a total loss. 
His motor insurer offered to replace his car with the equivalent make and model which would 
have meant he didnt lose any value from the car at the time of loss and that he would have 
a like for like replacement. But Mr S chose against this and instead his motor insurer paid 
out the market value of his car at the time of loss.
So Mr S made a claim under his Asset Protection insurance policy for the shortfall. But 
Amtrust turned down his claim. It explained that the policy wouldnt cover the shortfall as 
Mr S had been offered the same make and model of car which amounted to more than his 
car was worth. So, in effect, there wouldnt have been a shortfall but for Mr S decision to 
turn down his car insurers offer of a replacement vehicle. As Mr S wasnt happy about this 
he complained to this service.
Our investigators looked into his complaint and the first investigator upheld it. He thought 
Amtrust hadnt acted fairly and as the motor insurer settled the claim at market value, which 
was less than the original invoice amount, that Amtrust should pay the shortfall. While our 
second investigator said the policy was clear that in circumstances like this Amtrust was 
entitled to turn down the claim  it had simply followed the terms and conditions of the policy 
in turning down the claim. And as Mr S had been offered the same make and model, which 
would have meant that there wasnt a shortfall, Amtrust had acted fairly.
As Mr S didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me for review and final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I can understand why Mr S feels that Amtrust should cover his 
shortfall, I dont think it acted unreasonably in following the terms and conditions of the 
policy. Ill explain why.
I know Mr S feels that his car insurer paid out the market value of his car and so his GAP 
insurance policy should cover the shortfall. Ultimately he feels that it should cover the gap 
between the market value of his vehicle and the invoice price he paid. And Mr S has 
highlighted a portion of the sales literature in support of his position. But the next part of this 
document highlights the aim of the policy is to make it easier to get a like for like vehicle 
replacement. And Mr S was offered this by his insurer and chose not to accept the like for 
like replacement, so I dont think Amtrust has acted unreasonably here. 
Indeed, as our second investigator highlighted Mr S was entitled to a replacement car with 
one of the same make and model under his motor insurance policy as his car was less than 
twelve months old. Mr S was offered this and turned it down as he wasnt sure how long he 
would have to wait for a replacement vehicle amongst other things. But that was his choice 
and I dont think it would be fair on his GAP insurer to pay the shortfall when it was Mr S 
choice. Plus, Amtrust will have factored the way insurers work in considering the risk, and in 
turn premium it charges in relation to these policies. It would have factored in that motor 
insurers generally offer a replacement like for like vehicle when a car is written off within the 
first year of purchase when determining the cost of its policies. 
Furthermore, the terms and conditions of the policy say, If You decline the offer of a 
replacement vehicle under the terms of the Motor Insurance Policy then the Administrator 
will settle the claim based on the value of the replacement vehicle and not the settlement 
figure offered under the Motor Insurance Policy. And the market value of the replacement 
car that Mr S was offered was more than the original invoice price for his car when he first 
bought it. So, given that the motor insurer offered Mr S a replacement car that was worth 
more than the original amount he paid for the car, I cant say Amtrust has acted unfairly.  
As such, Im satisfied that Amtrust was entitled to refuse to deal with the claim. In summary 
his motor insurer offered to put Mr S back into his original position so he wouldnt have 
suffered a loss. And it was Mr S choice to accept a lower cash settlement figure. So it would 
be unfair for Amtrust to have to pay when there wouldnt have been a loss if hed accepted 
the replacement car. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman