DRN-3407692
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) declined his claim under his 
gadget insurance following a burglary while he was on holiday. Mr T took out the insurance 
through his bank, which was underwritten by AGI.
What happened
Briefly, Mr T was on holiday abroad with his family when burglars broke into the house they 
were staying in and took several devices, including laptops and phones. On his return home, 
Mr T raised a claim with AGI. AGI investigated the claim and asked for proof of ownership, a 
police report, and identification documents, amongst other evidence. 
During the investigation, Mr T said his phones had been recovered so they were removed 
from the claim. And there was one device for which he couldnt find any proof of purchase, 
so that was also removed from the claim. For the remaining devices, Mr T provided the 
evidence AGI asked for.
AGI didnt think Mr Ts account of events had been consistent so it declined the claim. It 
relied on the policy terms and conditions which said failure to take reasonable care to 
answer all questions honestly may affect the claim. 
Mr T complained because hed provided plenty of evidence to prove ownership.
To begin with, our investigator thought AGI had fairly declined the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions. However, after receiving further comment and evidence from Mr T showing 
he provided the information AGI asked for, our investigator recommended that AGI should 
settle the claim.
AGI didnt agree.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The issue of Mr Ts complaint is that AGI declined his claim under his gadget insurance 
because his account of events differed when it asked for further confirmation. AGI relied on 
the policy terms and conditions which state:
It is important that when applying for insurance, or submitting a claim you or anyone 
acting on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer all questions honestly and to 
the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the validity of your policy or the 
fulfilment of your claim.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr T and AGI and I agree there is a discrepancy on the 
account of events. Mr T said the burglars cut the metal bars of the window, but later he said 
the burglar pulled the metals bars apart to gain access. AGI said this discrepancy called the 
claim into question, so it relied on the above terms and conditions to decline Mr Ts claim.
I can understand why AGI questioned the validity of Mr Ts claim based on the evidence 
above. So, Ive thought about whether it matters if the window bars were cut or pulled apart. 
In either scenario, burglars entered the holiday house through the window where the bars 
were. The police report confirms the bars were prised apart, which supports the second 
account Mr T gave. I note that he changed his explanation when AGI questioned why he 
didnt hear the bars being cut. Based on the evidence, I accept that the original description 
wasnt accurate, but it doesnt change the outcome of the event  the burglars gained entry 
through the kitchen window and stole Mr Ts devices. Whether or not the bars were cut or 
pulled apart is irrelevant in the circumstances. 
I can understand that Mr T mightve embellished his version of events in the hope that AGI 
would accept his claim, but I havent seen anything to suggest he was trying to benefit from 
offering a slightly different explanation. The key point is that the police report confirmed the 
burglars gained entry via the bars at the kitchen window.
Looking at the rest of the evidence AGI asked for, I see Mr T provided proof of:
ownership of the devices
identity
address
travel dates
partners address
He also provided photos of the window bars, and a copy of the police report and receipt.
I can understand it must be difficult to get evidence from another country to demonstrate his 
claim, so in the circumstances, the evidence hes provided is reasonable. Im satisfied Mr T 
has cooperated with AGIs investigation and, because of that, I cant say that AGI fairly 
declined his claim for the reason it gave.
While our investigator recommended that AGI settle the claim, its not clear whether AGI 
considered the remainder of the policy. Therefore, Im minded to require AGI to reconsider 
the claim without relying on the terms and conditions of, must take reasonable care to 
answer all questions honestly and to the best of your knowledge  in respect of whether the 
bars were bent or prised apart.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and I was minded to require Assurant General 
Insurance Limited to:
reconsider Mr Ts claim without relying on the requirement to take reasonable care to 
answer questions honestly in respect of the window bars.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Neither AGI nor Mr T provided any more information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ts 
complaint and Assurant General Insurance Limited must:
reconsider Mr Ts claim without relying on the requirement to take reasonable care to 
answer questions honestly in respect of the window bars.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman