DRN-3767330
The complaint
Miss B complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) cancelled her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B had a motor insurance policy with Mulsanne, arranged through a broker. Her policy 
was one that used a telematics system (commonly known as a black box) to gather data.
She bought the policy on 6 December 2021 and it started immediately. The broker sent her a 
black box in the post which was apparently delivered on 11 December.
Miss Bs policy contained a condition that she needed to install the black box on her car 
within seven days of buying the policy. Mulsanne said it would also give an additional seven 
days, if needed, before it cancelled the policy.
But Miss B says the black box didnt arrive and she contacted the broker on 20 December 
and asked for another one to be sent out. She asked that it was sent to a different address.
The broker asked Miss B for more information about where the first box had been sent to, 
but Miss B didnt respond. The broker didnt send a second black box. 
As it hadnt heard from Miss B, Mulsanne cancelled the policy on 24 December.
Miss B wasnt happy about this and she complained. Mulsanne said it had given Miss B 
ample time to install the box, so it didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss B remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint and upheld it. He didnt think Mulsanne had proved it had delivered the 
black box to Miss B and he said he thought it was unfair of Mulsanne to cancel Miss Bs 
policy based on the fact that shed not received the box. He thought it should refund its 
cancellation fee of £56 and pay Miss B £200 for her distress and inconvenience.
In later correspondence, Mulsanne provided confirmation from the postage company that the 
package containing the black box had been delivered on 11 December.
Mulsanne didnt agree with the view, so Miss Bs complaint has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mulsanne has written to the service saying that the choice and provision of the telematics 
device is entirely the choice of the broker who arranged Miss Bs policy. But Mulsanne 
cancelled the policy, which is the action that Miss B has complained about. So Im satisfied 
this complaint has been brought correctly against Mulsanne.
Having read the file of information, Im going to uphold Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain 
why. 
Miss B took out her policy from Mulsanne knowing that it was one using a telematics system. 
I can see from her policy documents several references to the fact that the black box must 
be installed within seven days of starting the policy. 
Ive thought carefully about Mulsannes approach to its telematics policy and that it will 
cancel the policy if the black box isnt installed. Miss Bs apparently arrived five days into her 
cover, meaning she had only two days in which to install it. Im not familiar with the level of 
complexity of the installation, but having a window of only two days does seem very short.
Mulsanne say it then gave Miss B another seven days to fit the box, taking her cancellation 
date to the 20 December. 
On that day, Miss B contacted her broker and told it she hadnt received her black box yet. 
Im not sure why Miss B didnt chase it earlier to tell it she hadnt received the box, but I also 
understand she was visiting elsewhere at the time.
I can see from Mulsannes evidence that its provided confirmation that the postal service it 
used delivered the black box. Although I cant see the exact address, I think its reasonable 
to say that it was most likely posted to the correct one. Its important that I say here that the 
confirmation of delivery does not necessarily mean that Miss B actually took receipt of the 
device itself.
Crucially, if Miss B had actually received the black box, why would she then report that she 
hadnt got it? I dont think Mulsanne has done enough to prove Miss B was at fault here.
When Miss B discussed the missing box with her broker, I also dont understand why it didnt 
agree to issue a second black box immediately. The policy documents mention supplying 
replacement boxes, with an additional cost, and I think its reasonable to think that Mulsanne 
should have a clear policy in place to account for a device going missing as this one appears 
to have done. 
Instead, Mulsanne seems to have cancelled Miss Bs policy without discussing the matter 
further with her, causing her to be charged a cancellation fee of £56. Its my thinking that 
Mulsannes immediate reaction should have been to ensure another box was provided, and 
then try and understand what had happened with the first one and resolve this fairly with 
Miss B.
By not doing this, Mulsanne has led to Miss B being charged an extra fee. She also had the 
inconvenience of her policy being cancelled the day before Christmas, and needs to notify 
her future insurers of its cancellation of her policy.
I dont think Mulsanne has acted fairly here. I think its fair and reasonable to ask it to refund 
Miss Bs cancellation fee and pay Miss B £200 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience it has caused.
I also think Mulsanne should remove details of its cancellation of Miss Bs policy from its 
internal database and any external databases. If its not possible to remove the record, then 
they should be amended to show Miss B cancelled the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss B:
£200 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
£56 for the refund of her cancellation fee.
Remove or amend details of the cancellation from its internal and any external 
databases.
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman