DRN-1984839
The complaint
Mr P complained about Clydesdale Bank PLC, trading as Virgin Money. A credit card was 
fraudulently taken out in Mr Ps name, and he wants more compensation than Virgin gave 
him.
What happened
In June 2018, someone fraudulently took out a credit card in Mr Ps name. Just under £3,000 
was spent on the card. Minimum monthly payments were then made, but there was no real 
reduction to the balance.
On 17 December 2019, Virgin sent a letter to Mr Ps address, saying that in the last 18 
months hed paid more in interest, fees and charges than hed paid off the balance. But Mr P 
didnt know anything about the card, and he rang Virgin on 23 December. 
Virgin carried out checks, and the next day, 24 December, confirmed that it had been an 
application fraud, and took the account out of Mr Ps name.
Mr P rang Virgin again in early January 2020, because the letter from Virgins security team 
had spelt his first name incorrectly. He asked for another copy of the letter, with his first 
name corrected. The letter had also quoted the account application number, though it hadnt 
been Mr P who had made the application.  
In its final response to Mr Ps complaint on 24 February, Virgin apologised that Mr Ps name 
had been spelt incorrectly on its letter. It explained it was because that was the spelling 
which had been used to open the fraudulent account. Virgin also said that the letter had 
quoted the account application number because that was the number under which the 
account had been opened.
But Virgin apologised that it hadnt promptly sent out a replacement letter with the correct 
spelling of Mr Ps first name. As an apology, Virgin sent Mr P a cheque for £25.
Mr P wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He was unhappy with Virgins account 
opening processes, and also didnt think that the compensation Virgin had offered was 
enough.
Our investigator explained that its the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to say whether Virgins processes or policies were correct. But she told Mr P that she 
couldnt see that Virgin had made errors when it had processed the fraudulent application. 
And she considered that £25 was fair for Virgins incorrect spelling of Mr Ps first name.
Mr P didnt agree. He asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr P would have been shocked and upset to find that a fraudulent account 
had been opened in his name. Its natural to find this distressing. 
I dont underestimate the distress Mr P felt when he found out about the fraudulent account. 
But it was, of course, the fraudster who was primarily responsible for that distress. My job is 
to determine whether Virgin added to that distress, and if so, what would be fair and 
reasonable compensation.
Ive seen nothing to show that Virgin failed to follow its own procedures when the fraudster 
opened the account. And Virgin acted swiftly as soon as Mr P reported what had happened. 
He rang on 23 December, and Virgin investigated, and confirmed it wasnt Mr P who had 
opened the account, closed the account, and sent a letter to Mr P, the next day, 24 
December. 
And as Ive set out above, this service doesnt determine whether or not banks have proper 
processes and policies. Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Ive gone on to consider the impact on Mr P of Virgins mis-spelling of his first name, and the 
fact that the letter contained the application number. First, I dont think there was anything 
wrong with Virgin including the application number on the letter. It was just a reference 
number to identify the account. And looking at the spelling, the incorrect version of Mr Ps 
first name was what had been put on the fraudulent application form. 
Certainly there was a delay, between early January and mid-February, before Virgin sent a 
replacement letter with the correct spelling of Mr Ps name. But I consider that the £25 which 
Virgin paid Mr P was fair and reasonable compensation for that. So I dont require Virgin to 
do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint for more compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman