DRN-3016348
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) should not have provided her with 
an overdraft or limit increases as they were not affordable. She says Lloyds continued 
charging her excessive amounts for the overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
  
What happened
Miss D complained to Lloyds. She said they should not have approved overdraft increases 
between July 2019 and December 2019. She said she was in financial difficulty and suffering 
from mental health issues when these increases were applied and that changes to Lloyds 
overdraft pricing structure caused her further difficulties.
The business didnt uphold the complaint. And as Miss D was dissatisfied she referred the 
complaint to our service.
Miss Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who thought that Lloyds ought 
to have realised that Miss D was experiencing financial difficulty by 28 October 2019 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Lloyds 
didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Miss Ds overdraft 
in October 2019. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss D was in no position to 
sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I think this is the case because the information Lloyds had, showed them Miss D was 
persistently using the majority of her overdraft facility and had been making several 
payments to debt collection agencies through her Lloyds sole account. I think there was 
evidence that Miss D was in financial difficulties and hadnt been using the overdraft facility 
for its intended purpose of emergency borrowing, but was instead using it to keep afloat. 
I think it was reasonable to think Miss D had overstated her earnings on her overdraft 
application. There was no further evidence of her claimed £240,000 per month income and I 
think Lloyds should have checked that, especially as she had explained she was a home 
maker and hadnt listed an employer on her application.
I think Lloyds ought to have realised at this point that it was unlikely Miss D would have been 
able to sustainably repay the overdraft within a reasonable period of time.
Miss D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So, I think that Lloyds 
didnt treat Miss D fairly and she lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ds complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it after the limit increase of 28 October 2019 are removed. This means that from 28 
October 2019 onwards interest can only be charged on first £1000 of any overdrawn 
balance.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Miss D to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ds 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had the limit increase 
not been approved on 28 October 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ds credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires [Business] to take off tax from this interest. [Business] 
must give [consumer] a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ds complaint. Lloyds should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman