DRN-4307229
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he acquired with credit from Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) wasnt
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr C entered into a credit agreement with BMF on 20 April 2022 to acquire a used car. The
credit to buy the car was granted by BMF under a hire purchase agreement. This meant
BMF was the owner of the car and Mr C was, in essence, paying for the use of it. As owner,
BMF was responsible for the quality of the car.
The cash price of the car was £7,149 and the total amount owed under the agreement
including interest came to £8,811. This was to be repaid in 33 monthly instalments of £267
(figures rounded). The car was an 11 year old Audi and had covered 71,683 miles when
supplied to Mr C.
Mr C experienced issues with the car in June 2022 relating to the engine, the suspension
and the transmission and complained to BMF. He described the car as unsteady and said he
experienced noise on start-up, noise from the engine and difficulty when changing gears
after driving for a time. A scheduled service had noted issues with the suspension and that a
sealant had been used to repair the area around the water pump. A later inspection at an
Audi garage found faults with the suspension and the tyres but didnt diagnose the issues
Mr C had experienced with the transmission. It said this would require striping the gearbox
and investigating the synchroniser.
Mr C obtained quotes for repairs for the suspension, but not for the transmission which
remained undiagnosed. The quotes Ive seen didnt mention the cooling system. The selling
dealership offered to pay for half the costs as a goodwill gesture but said that the issues
were due to wear and tear. BMF told Mr C it would look to cover the remainder.
In November, BMF commissioned an independent report to look into the transmission
issues. The inspection couldnt replicate Mr Cs concerns with the car and found that it had 
been road legal and fit for purpose when it was supplied. BMF therefore concluded it wasnt 
liable for the cost of any repairs and didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. They concluded
it should upheld in part because the car wasnt of satisfactory condition when supplied in
relation to the suspension. As the transmission issue remained undiagnosed they didnt find
that this issue was present when the car was supplied. They recommended that BMF covers
the cost of repairs to the suspension and the cost of replacement tyres. They also
recommended that BMF pays Mr C £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience to him of
being provided with a faulty car.
BMF said it was happy to compensate Mr C for the inconvenience but it wasnt willing to
cover the cost of any repairs because the independent inspection didnt replicate the issues
Mr C described. BMF asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to decide and it
came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 9 May 2023 upholding Mr Cs complaint. I 
found that there were issues with the car when it was supplied to Mr C relating to the 
suspension and tyres. I said that in order to put things right for Mr C BMF should either pay 
for the repairs or accept the cars return. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr C told us that although hed carried out some 
repairs to the car in order for it to pass its MOT in April, he wished to return it. BMF said in its 
response that Mr C hadnt made any payments towards the agreement since August 2022 
and if he rejected the car he would still need to discuss how to repay his arrears. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again including what both parties said in their response to my 
provisional decision, my conclusions are unchanged. Mr C told us that he wishes to reject 
the car although he has paid for some repairs to it and provided receipts for his costs. I 
remain of the view that my proposals for putting things right for Mr C are fair and reasonable 
and he can now reject the car. Ill set out again my reasons for upholding Mr Cs complaint in 
this final decision. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, I want to reassure both parties that I have considered 
everything theyve provided though I might not directly refer to it in my decision. The 
information Ive reviewed included BMFs internal complaint notes, the independent 
inspection report and copies of correspondence and invoices from Mr C.
What happened
Mr C told BMF on 21 June that hed had the car serviced as per the service schedule. The
garage report Ive seen advised that the rear suspension bushes were un-bonding and a
sealant had been used to repair a previous leak in the coolant system. Mr C said that this
wasnt a proper repair. He told BMF on 12 August that he could hear air under the bonnet /
hissing noise when hed been out for a drive. He was concerned that the sealant wasnt
working and said that the car wasnt steady. On 15 August Mr C provided BMF with a receipt
and further comments from the garage which noticed the fix when servicing the car. Mr C
had been told that there was no guarantee how long the fix would hold and that permanent
damage could happen to the car.
Mr C also mentioned at this time that the gearbox wasnt operating as it should and that the
ignition made a cranking noise on start-up. Mr C said that altogether it felt that there was
something genuinely wrong with the car and he didnt expect these issues given the amount
he was paying and how recently hed acquired it.
Mr C took the car to an Audi garage on 30 August. A report from the garage noted that the
car felt unstable while driving and experienced a loss of power. It found that the rear bushes
on the wishbone had collapsed and an incorrect coil spring had been fitted on the front. It
also found that the front and rear tyres were of different sizes. The garage noted that the
gears jolted but didnt diagnose a fault. It said that further work was needed to investigate
the cause of this issue. There was no mention of the coolant system. According to Mr C, the
Audi garage wouldnt carry out the repairs because of the nature of them and the overall
condition of the car.
On 1 September BMF told Mr C that continuing to drive the car could cause further damage.
Later that month it told him that the selling dealership had offered to pay half of the cost of
repairs and that it may look to assist Mr C with the remaining costs. Mr C obtained (VAT-
inclusive) quotes from two different garages in October. His local garage could repair the suspension for £430. Mr C forwarded the emailed quote from the garage and offered to 
provide the tyre size so BMF could source prices for replacements. He told BMF that he 
could book the car in for these repairs if it was happy to pay for them and hed find another 
garage who could look into the transmission issue.
A second garage quoted £934 for the suspension repairs, and £424 for the replacement and
rebalancing of the tyres. Mr C provided these quotes to BMF and said that this second
garage wouldnt repair the gearbox as it needed to be stripped down and potentially sent off
to have the synchroniser repaired.
On 6 October BMF advised Mr C to get a full invoice for the cost of the work including an
hourly rate for the strip down of the gear box. Mr C replied that the garage whod quoted for
the repair had offered to carry out the diagnostic work on the gearbox when the car was in
for the repairs to the tyres and suspension. However, the garage was unable to quote for
repairs to the gearbox even on an hourly rate as it wasnt sure how long this would take.
On 14 October Mr C told BMF that hed been in contact with the selling dealership whod told
him that the warranty had expired and that it wasnt liable for repairs to the suspension. On
19 October the dealership told BMF that Mr C had had the car for around six months now
and the items on the repair quotations were down to wear and tear. It also said that any
wheel alignment issues could be down to Mr C hitting a pothole. It seems the dealership felt
the repair quotes were too high. 
BMF then asked the dealership to take the car back for repair and the further inspection (of 
the gearbox). The dealership refused saying that its premises was closed for building 
maintenance and it didnt know when it would reopen.
BMF organised an independent inspection of the car on 10 November 2022. The complaint
notes state that it did so in order to diagnose the issues with the gearbox. It seems BMF
didnt want to cover the cost of some of the repairs if the as yet un-costed work would
eventually result in the total cost of repairs being uneconomical. The inspection was to
confirm if there was an issue with the gearbox and to carry out a full health check.
The inspector couldnt replicate Mr Cs concerns - there were no unusual noises from the
engine and the gears performed as expected during a static test. There were expected
levels of wear to the suspension components but no issues were noted with the steering, the
engine or transmission throughout the road test. The inspection report noted that the front
and rear tyres were different sizes and that the ride height was higher in the front. There was
evidence the water pump had recently been replaced and the front coil springs may have
been replaced but not recently. It concluded that the car was road legal and fit for purpose
when supplied.
My considerations
The Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015 is relevant here. This act implies a term into any
contract to supply goods that those goods will be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory means
what a reasonable person would expect, taking into account the description of the goods, the
price and any other relevant circumstances. The quality of the goods includes their general
state and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish,
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability. The relevant circumstances in this
complaint would include, for example, the nature of the fault and the age and mileage of the
car.
The CRA gives customers solutions if they find themselves with faulty goods. They can
reject the goods if the fault happens within 30 days, or have the goods repaired or replaced. 
Outside of this period the supplier has the chance to repair the goods before anything elsehappens. The supplier must either repair or replace the goods within a reasonable time and
without significant inconvenience to the customer (Section 23). If this doesnt solve the
problem and its found that the fault was there or developing when the goods were supplied,
then a consumer might be entitled to other solutions such as a price reduction or a final right
to reject the goods.
In this case faults manifested with Mr Cs car more than 30 days after it was supplied. My
first consideration is whether the faults were there or developing from the start or whether
they arose later, for example through wear and tear caused by normal usage. If I find that
the faults were present from the outset, does this mean that the car didnt conform to the
contract at the time or, in other words, was of unsatisfactory quality? If so, what should
happen now?
Issues with the suspension and the tyres
In this case the car Mr C acquired was 11 years old and had travelled 71,683 miles. The
mileage recorded at the service in June was 72,503. So Mr C had the car a little over two
months and had driven it 820 miles when the suspension issues were first noted by a third
party. When Mr C brought his car to an Audi garage at the end of August the mileage
recorded was 73,236. This visit confirmed the issues with the suspension and the tyres.
BMFs contact record and the garage reports and invoices provided by Mr C are consistent
in their descriptions of the issues with the suspension and the repairs required.
The MOT carried out in April 2022 noted that the near side front tyre was worn close to the
legal limit. This was picked up on the June garage report and the Audi report in August
concluded that the front and rear tyres were of different sizes. I think its more likely than not
that the car had been provided to Mr C with these mismatched tyres.
Altogether, Im satisfied that the car had faults with the suspension and had mismatched
tyres when provided to Mr C.
Given the age and mileage of the car when supplied, I think its fair to say that Mr C might
have needed carry out repairs or maintenance work on this car sooner than a newer or less
used model. That said, Mr C had the car for a relatively short time and hadnt travelled
particularly far when he started having problems with it. While the independent report
concluded that the car was road legal and fit for purpose, it didnt mention other aspects of
quality. Altogether, I dont consider that the car was of sufficient durability or free from
defects when it was provided to Mr C. It follows that Ive concluded the car wasnt of
satisfactory quality. This means BMF is liable for the costs of these repairs.
However, its clear to me that BMF has had a reasonable period of time to rectify the issues
with the suspension and tyres for Mr C. These issues had been diagnosed by two garages
within a few months of supply and Mr C had obtained quotes for the work involved by
October. BMF attempted to have this work and further diagnostic work carried out by the
selling dealership but was unsuccessful. I think another attempt at repair would likely cause
further inconvenience to Mr C. Ive concluded that Mr C should now be allowed to reject the
vehicle on this basis, should he chose to do so.
Issues with the repair to the coolant system
The repairs to the coolant system were noted in the service report in June 2022. I appreciate
that the quality of this repair remains an ongoing concern for Mr C but so far there hasnt
been any independent confirmation that this repair which was carried out before the car was
supplied to him is causing an ongoing issue. Issues with the transmission
I understand that in order to diagnose a fault with the transmission further work is required
which involves stripping the gearbox and investigating the synchroniser.
Mr C first got in touch with BMF about the problems he was experiencing with the car on 21
June. In August BMF agreed to pay £130 for the Audi garage to look into the problems he
was having with the suspension but didnt agree to pay more for the diagnostic to cover the
problems with the transmission. The report from the Audi garage on 30 August confirmed
that further work was needed to diagnose the issue with the transmission. As mentioned,
Mr C obtained quotes for the repairs to the suspension and the tyres in early October, but
could not obtain a quote for the gearbox repair without first having a diagnosis. BMF chose
not to accept the quotes without an estimate of the cost of repairing the gearbox. BMF asked
the dealership to carry out the repairs and provide an estimate of the further work required
but it refused. This was on 21 October prior to the independent inspection in November.
The independent inspection didnt manage to replicate the problem but this may be because
its an intermittent issue. Mr C explained that the issue with the gears happens after the car
has been driven for some time. However, in order for me to find that BMF is liable for a
repair or replacement relating to this issue, Mr C would need to have the issue diagnosed in
the first instance. I dont have enough information to find that a fault exists with the 
transmission which was present or developing at the point of supply.
What should happen now
The car failed its MOT on 23 April of this year due to a cut in the offside rear tyre. The MOT
also reported advisories relating to the suspension. The mileage recorded was 75,534 so the
cars travelled 3,851 miles while in Mr Cs possession. Our investigator recommended that
BMF retains the monthly payments Mr C made as hes had the use of the car. Bearing in
mind the cash price of the car, the use Mr Cs had of it and the ongoing problems hes
experiencing and the impact these have had on his enjoyment of the car, I think its fair that
he isnt liable for the full monthly payments. In this case, I think a 20% reduction in the
monthly payments would be fair. This limits Mr Cs liability to £214 a month for each month
hes had the use of the car.
In addition, Mr C has experienced distress and inconvenience by being supplied with a faulty
car. I can see from BMFs contact notes that Mr C has spent considerable time trying to sort
out the problem himself  gathering quotes for repair and keeping in touch with BMF. There
isnt a specific calculation for awards to compensate for the emotional impact of errors. We
have an approach (which is set out on our website) which Ive borne in mind alongside
everything else when making this decision. Our investigator proposed an amount of £150 but
I dont think this fairly reflects the impact this has had on Mr C. The approach set out on our
website includes examples of awards of over £300 and up to £750 where a mistake has
caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and
disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, the impact lasts over many
weeks or months. I think an award in this range would be appropriate here.
As mentioned, the car failed its MOT on 23 April this year due to a cut in the offside rear tyre. 
It also had advisories relating to the suspension and the condition of the nearside rear tyre. 
The car passed its MOT on 10 May with the advisories still in place. Mr C provided invoices 
for repairs to the car which included replacing the tyres. I appreciate that Mr C needed to 
replace a tyre in order for the car to pass its MOT but he was liable for any wear and tear 
costs when the car was in his possession irrespective of the issue with the mismatched 
tyres. And, as Mr C has chosen to reject the car instead of keeping the car and having the cost of repairs covered, I dont think its fair that BMF should accept the return of the car and 
also pay for these repairs. 
BMF said in response to my provisional decision that Mr C hasnt met his payments for 
about a year and his account is in arrears. If Mr C accepts my decision then BMF can only 
ask him to repay a limited amount as set out below. BMF should treat Mr C sympathetically 
and fairly regarding the repayment of this debt, which may mean agreeing an affordable 
repayment plan with him. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr C, BMF should now:
End the agreement with nothing for Mr C to pay going forwards and collect the car at 
no further cost to him; and
Limit Mr Cs liability to £214 a month for each month hes had the use of the car; and
Consider any payments hes made as payments towards this reduced liability; and 
Pay Mr C an amount of £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I am upholding Mr Cs complaint against Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd and it now needs to put things right for him as Ive set out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman