DRN-3796454
The complaint
Mrs M complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) wont refund money she lost 
after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
On the morning of 17 December 2021, Mrs M was contacted by someone who claimed they 
worked for a company Ill refer to as D. They told Mrs M shed mistakenly been charged 
£79.90 for a membership with D and they needed to refund her. The caller sent Mrs M a 
form to complete in order to claim the funds back and got Mrs M to download Anydesk so 
she could share her devices screen with them and they could talk her through the process. 
After Mrs M had completed the form, the caller told Mrs M theyd refunded her £7,990 in 
error and that she needed to send this money back to them. Mrs M was talked through 
making a payment of £7,990 to account details provided by the caller. 
After making the payment the caller told Mrs M that theyd accidentally refunded £5,000 not 
the £7,990 and needed her to make another payment. Mrs M says she was in a rush and 
told them she couldnt continue the call. They told Mrs M they would call her back at 3pm 
that afternoon.
Mrs M says she was in a rush that morning as she was due to be picked up by her daughter 
and had to be available in time so her daughter could attend an appointment.
Mrs M discussed the call with her daughter, who was present when the caller phoned Mrs M 
back at 3pm. Mrs Ms daughter asked Mrs M to check her account to see what money had 
been paid into her account from D and noticed that the only credit to the account was funds 
that had been moved from Mrs Ms savings account to her current account. At this point,  
Mrs M became aware shed been the victim of a scam.
Mrs M tried to call Co-op the same day, but after being on hold for a period of time was told 
that the phone line for the fraud team had closed and she needed to call back the next day 
at 8am. Mrs M called back the next day at 8am and was told the fraud team phone line 
wouldnt open until 9am. Once the phone line had opened Mrs M called and reported the 
fraud. Mrs M was told someone would be in touch within two weeks.
Mrs M called Co-op on 6 January 2022 as she hadnt heard from them. During this call it was 
identified that while the fraud claim had been raised on the 18 December, full notes of what 
happened as part of the scam hadnt been taken and the fraud claim hadnt been progressed 
to the fraud team. However, the beneficiary bank had been contacted to try and recover Mrs 
Ms funds.
The staff member apologised for the error and let Mrs M know they would need to ask her 
some questions about the scam. Mrs M was upset that notes werent taken during her first 
call and the staff member offered to listen to the original call and then call Mrs M. But they let 
Mrs M know that it was likely theyd need to ask some additional questions about what had 
happened. The staff member listened to the call and phoned Mrs M later that day as agreed.
 
They asked Mrs M some additional questions in relation to the scam, which hadnt been 
asked on the original call. They confirmed that while Mrs Ms fraud claim wasnt logged 
correctly internally, they had contacted the beneficiary bank on 18 December to try and 
recover her funds and apologised for their error in not setting up her fraud claim properly. 
On 20 January 2022 Co-op sent Mrs M a letter and called her to give the outcome of their 
fraud investigation. Co-op explained they were sharing liability for her loss and would be 
refunding 50% of the payment. They said the beneficiary bank had responded and no funds 
could be recovered. The letter said Mrs M could log a complaint if she was unhappy with 
how her case was handled.
On 21 January 2022, Co-op called Mrs M and asked her if shed had her device 
professionally cleaned to remove the software shed downloaded as part of the scam. They 
told Mrs M that her internet banking would be blocked until she confirmed shed done this.   
Mrs M told Co-op that her internet banking hadnt been blocked as she had been using it 
since the scam and asked to talk to them at another time as she was busy.
Later that day Mrs M called Co-op back as her internet banking had been blocked and she 
was unable to use it. Co-op explained to Mrs M what cleaning her device involved and how 
she could do it. Mrs M told Co-op that she was changing to using a new device that evening 
and Co-op suggested she call back when she had moved to the new device so they could 
unblock her internet banking.
On 25 January 2022, Mrs M called Co-op. She referred to the letter of 20 January and told 
them she would like to raise a complaint as she wasnt happy with the outcome, or the level 
of customer service shed received from Co-op in relation to the fraud claim. Mrs M was told 
it could take up to eight weeks for Co-op to investigate and respond to her complaint.
 
The points Mrs M raised included:
Her dissatisfaction with not being able to talk to Co-ops fraud team on 17 December 
2021 when she first tried to raise the fraud claim.
The potential impact on recovery of funds with her not being able to log her call until 
the following day.
The error in her fraud claim raised on 18 December 2021 not being logged properly.
Co-op not responding within the timescales they gave her.
Not being told that she should clean her device until nearly four weeks after the 
scam, which she shouldve been told when she first called them.
The payment to D shouldnt have been allowed to go through in the first place and, if 
Co-op had stopped the payment, Mrs M wouldnt have suffered a loss.
In April 2022, Co-op issued their final response to Mrs M in relation to her complaint. They 
reassured Mrs M the funds had left the beneficiary bank account within minutes of being 
received, so even if she had been able to report the fraud on 17 December, they wouldnt 
have been able to recover any funds. Co-op had considered Mrs Ms fraud claim under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) and accepted they shouldve 
intervened prior to processing the payment, but they also felt Mrs M shouldve done some 
checks on the legitimacy of the caller before making the payment. On that basis, they offered 
to share the loss with Mrs M and refund her 50% of the payment.Co-op apologised about Mrs M being given incorrect information regarding the phone line 
opening time on 17 December, that her call on 18 December wasnt noted in detail and that 
her fraud claim wasnt passed to the fraud team. They also accepted that they shouldve told 
Mrs M to clean her device when she first reported the fraud. Co-op apologised that the 
outcome of Mrs Ms complaint was delayed and that shed been given incorrect information 
about timescales. In recognition of the poor service, they paid Mrs M £225 for her distress & 
inconvenience.
Mrs M wasnt happy with Co-ops response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator felt the 
50% refund already made by the business was fair, as they felt Mrs M shouldve done some 
checks before making the payment. Also, they felt the £225 compensation paid by Co-op 
was fair based on the poor service Mrs M experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Co-op are a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that an exception applies. In this case Co-op say Mrs M made the payment without having a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to 
pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with 
whom they transacted was legitimate.
Having carefully considered everything that Mrs M has told us, Im not satisfied that she had 
a reasonable basis for believing the caller from D was legitimate. I say this because:
While Mrs M says she had purchased items from D previously, she hadnt taken out 
a membership with D so shouldve had doubts about how a membership had been 
started without her knowledge and how D couldve obtained her payment details.
Mrs M doesnt have a record of what phone number the fraudsters called from and 
says she didnt check whether the phone number was a genuine one for D.
D told her that payment had been taken from her account, however Mrs M didnt 
check her account to see whether the payment had come out. As part of the scam 
Mrs M logged into her online banking and set up and made a payment to account 
details provided by the caller, so couldve checked her account at the same time to 
see if the payment had come out as they claimed.
Mrs M was told to make the payment to an account held in a name that didnt match 
Ds company name. Mrs M says the caller gave a persuasive reason as to why this 
was the case, but I think this shouldve been concerning for such a large company.
Taking all of these points into consideration as a whole, rather than on an individual basis, I 
think Mrs M shouldve had some concerns about what she was being asked to do and 
whether the caller legitimately worked for D.I appreciate that Mrs M says shed heard of other people who had been paying for a 
membership with D without knowing it, however Im not satisfied that is enough for her to 
have believed that she had genuinely been charged for a service she hadnt registered for. 
Mrs M has also told us that she was feeling very rushed as she was due to be picked up by 
her daughter, so wanted to get the caller off the phone. However, after shed made the 
payment, Mrs M told the caller that she didnt have time to talk and couldnt continue the 
conversation, instead agreeing a call back later. I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mrs 
M to do this before making the payment, considering the size of the payment she was being 
asked to make was nearly £8,000. I think if shed taken time to check what she was being 
told, she wouldve identified that it was a scam. 
I understand that Mrs M feels Co-op shouldve stopped the payment from leaving her 
account, and that Co-op have accepted they shouldve intervened  so havent met the 
standards set for them under the CRM Code. However, that doesnt necessarily mean that I 
can hold Co-op 100% liable for Mrs Ms loss. As, as is the case here, where Im satisfied that 
Co-op can rely on an exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code, theyre only liable to 
refund Mrs M 50% of her loss. The CRM Code takes into account the banks obligations, but 
it also includes obligations for consumers dependent on the circumstances of the fraud. 
In this case, as Im satisfied that Co-op can rely on an exception to reimbursement, I can 
only ask them to refund 50% of the payment Mrs M made. Co-op have already refunded 
50%, so I cant fairly ask them to refund anything further.
The level of customer service Mrs M received
Co-op have accepted that their communication with Mrs M fell short of their expected 
standards and that she was given incorrect information about timescales. They also 
acknowledge that Mrs M shouldve been told to clean her phone when she first called them 
to report the scam, and that they hadnt followed their own internal process in setting up her 
fraud claim. In recognition of this theyve paid her £225 for her distress and inconvenience.
Having considered the points Mrs M has raised, Im satisfied that the £225 Co-op have 
already paid her is fair and Ill explain why. Its worth noting that where something has gone 
wrong, I need to think about the impact this has had on Mrs M including anything thats 
happened as a result. 
I appreciate that Mrs M is very concerned that she was unable to talk to Co-op on               
17 December when she first tried to report her fraud. But I cant see that this resulted in a 
loss for Mrs M. The evidence from the beneficiary bank shows that Mrs Ms funds were 
removed from the fraudsters account within minutes of it being received. So even if Mrs M 
had been able to report the fraud on the 17 December, no funds were recoverable from the 
beneficiary account by the time she realised shed been the victim of a scam. So Mrs M 
hasnt suffered a loss as a result. 
Also, I realise that it wouldve been concerning for Mrs M that she wasnt told to clean her 
phone until some weeks after the scam happened, during which time shed been using her 
phone on a regular basis. Co-op have apologised and confirmed that this information 
shouldve been given to Mrs M when she first reported the fraud. Fortunately, in this case, 
theres no evidence that the fraudsters were able to access Mrs Ms phone during this time 
or that it resulted in any consequential loss for Mrs M.
Ive listened to the calls that Mrs M had with Co-op on 18 December and 21 December.    
Mrs M says she was frustrated at being asked to repeat information shed previously given to 
Co-op. However, the Co-op staff member offered to listen to the earlier call to hear what information Mrs M had already given them so she wouldnt have to repeat herself. They then 
called Mrs M back and asked new questions about how the scam unfolded. Co-op has 
accepted that the notes taken on the first call werent sufficiently detailed, and I think it was 
appropriate for them to listen to the call to save Mrs M having to provide information again. 
But the questions Mrs M was asked on the second call were not asked on the first call and 
provided the additional detail that Co-op needed to complete their fraud investigation. 
Overall, I think that Mrs M shouldve received a better level of service from Co-op and see 
that this caused her additional frustration and distress. But, Im also conscious that most of 
the stress has been caused by the fraudster and I cant hold Co-op responsible for that. 
Having carefully considered everything that Mrs M has told us, I think the £225 Co-op have 
already paid Mrs M is fair, so I wont be asking them to pay anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman