DRN-1892491
The complaint
Miss A has complained that a claim for storm damage under her home insurance policy was 
unfairly declined by Fairmead Insurance Limited.
What happened
Miss A made a claim to Fairmead after part of the gable wall of her house collapsed into a 
narrow alley between her house and her neighbours on 2 November 2019. Fairmead 
referred Miss A to a contractor who put some sheeting over the hole to keep out the worst of 
the wind and rain.
Fairmead arranged for a surveyor to inspect the damage. He thought wind being funnelled 
through the gap between the two houses had effectively sucked Miss As wall outwards. He 
thought defects in the way the property was built had made this damage more likely to 
happen. Fairmead declined the claim. It said the damage wouldnt have happened if the wall 
had been in good condition.
After Miss A complained to Fairmead, its claims handler agreed to pay half the cost of 
repairing the wall. Miss A thought Fairmead should pay all the cost of repairing the wall. In 
response to a further complaint Fairmead said its original decision to decline the claim had 
been correct but it offered Miss A £500 compensation for the poor service shed received.
Miss A brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
didnt think the storm was the main cause of the damage.
As Miss A didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a storm complaint, I generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that there were strong winds with gale force gusts around 
the time that the damage to Miss As property happened.
Regarding the second question, the sort of damage most commonly caused by a storm 
includes damage to gable walls. So in my opinion its possible that a storm could cause the 
sort of damage claimed for in this case.
What I have to decide is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage to Miss As 
gable wall. In deciding this, I usually rely on expert evidence. Fairmeads surveyor reported 
that large sections of the cavity wall lacked wall ties and some wall ties were loose. He also 
said the lime mortar was loose and crumbled to the touch, so it was no longer holding the 
brickwork together. He noted that other similar properties nearby had had their gable walls 
replaced or repaired. He thought that suggested there were issues with the building methods 
used locally when the properties were constructed. In summary he said a well-built gable 
wall shouldnt fail in storm conditions. 
Fairmead has provided internet photos of Miss As house taken in 2009 and 2019. These 
photos show a change in the gable wall and roofline over the ten-year period, supporting 
Fairmeads conclusion that the gable end had started to move before the storm.
Miss A has provided some evidence to the contrary. Her builder said the wall structure below 
the level of the first-floor ceiling was structurally sound and he only found two loose wall ties.
Fairmead only has to show that on the balance of probabilities (in other words it is 51% 
likely) there was an existing problem and/or that a storm wasnt the main cause of the 
damage. I note what Miss As builder has said but in my view that doesnt conclusively prove 
that the gable end was in a good condition before the storm. I think the evidence from the 
surveyors report indicates that a storm most likely highlighted pre-existing defects (missing 
or loose wall ties and crumbling mortar) rather than having been the main cause of the 
damage. 
Overall, Im not persuaded it has been sufficiently shown that the damage to the gable wall 
was caused by a peril covered by Miss As policy as opposed to pre-existing defects. So I 
think Fairmeads decision to decline her claim was fair and reasonable. 
Ive also looked at how Fairmead handled Miss As claim. It was aware that Miss A was a 
vulnerable consumer recovering from a serious operation.  Although I think the decision to 
decline Miss As claim was correct, Fairmead caused her a great deal of distress by initially 
offering to pay half the cost of the repairs and then later withdrawing that offer. Delays on its 
part in dealing with the claim also meant Miss A was left in a cold house for longer than 
necessary and had to spend a lot of time chasing Fairmead. But for the trouble and upset 
caused by this I think that £500 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman