DRN-2673369
The complaint
Miss O complains that Arrow Global Limited hasnt updated her credit file following the 
partial settlement of her account.   
What happened
In October 2019 Miss O contacted Arrow by email and asked it to accept £250 as partial 
settlement to resolve her outstanding account. At the same time, Miss O advised Arrow 
about her mental health issues. 
Arrow said it would accept Miss Os offer as partial settlement but that the county court 
judgment obtained in respect of the debt wouldnt be marked as satisfied.
Later in October 2019 Mss O contacted Arrow and said she wasnt able to pay £250 as 
settlement due to a change in circumstances. She offered £110. Arrow responded and said it 
would accept £100 in partial settlement. Miss O paid this in November 2019.
Later In November 2019 Miss O contacted Arrow to ask when the account would be shown 
as steeled on her credit file. Arrow responded and said it would contact the court to have the 
county court judgment marked as partially satisfied.
Miss Os credit file was updated as she expected so she contacted Arrow in February 2020 
to complain. Arrow replied and said a further request had been sent to the court to have the 
judgment updated as partially satisfied.
Miss O sent further emails to Arrow in April, May, June and July 2020 complaining that her 
credit file hadnt been updated. Her emails were blocked due to a profanity filter and Arrow 
didnt retrieve them until July 2020.
In July 2020 Miss O contacted Arrow by telephone but her call was terminated part way 
through by Arrow.
In its final response, Arrow acknowledged that it had incorrectly advised Miss O that the 
judgment could be marked as partially satisfied. Arrow also acknowledged that it had failed 
to response to Miss O in a timely manner and that it had accidentally disconnected her call. 
Arrow said it didnt agree that Miss Os negative credit file was due to its error and said it had 
told her (correctly) that partial settlement wouldnt result in the judgment being marked as 
satisfied. In acknowledgement of its errors, Arrow paid compensation of £200 to Miss O.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that Arrow had made an error in advising 
Miss O that the judgment would be updated as partially settled on her credit file, which had 
led to a false expectation on her part. The investigator also felt that Arrow had failed to 
exercise reasonable care in its treatment of Miss O, as they had been made aware that she 
was suffering with mental health issues. The investigator recommended that Arrow pay 
further compensation of £300.
Arrow didnt agree. It said the compensation already paid was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The nub of this complaint is whether Arrow has made an error by not updating Miss Os 
credit file. 
Arrow has said that it explained to Miss O that although it could accept a lesser sum in 
settlement of the account, the county court judgment would not be marked as satisfied on 
her credit file. Arrow has also acknowledged that it subsequently told Miss O that it was 
going to contact the court to have the judgment updated as partially satisfied.
Its clear that Arrow gave conflicting and misleading advice to Miss O. This led to her 
expecting her credit file to be amended when this wasnt actually possible.
For clarity, partial settlement of a county court judgment isnt possible. A county court 
judgment  even of part settled  will remain on a credit file for 6 years.
Based on what Ive seen, and although Arrow gave conflicting advice, I dont think its fair to 
say that Arrow made an error by not amending Miss Os credit file. This wasnt something it 
was within Arrows power to do.
Ive also considered whether Arrow treated Miss O fairly, and with an appropriate level of 
car, taking into account her vulnerability. Im satisfied that Miss O meets the definition of a 
vulnerable customer under the FCA. Im also satisfied that Miss O made Arrow aware of her 
vulnerability. Because of this, I think Arrow should have exercised extra care in its handling 
of Miss Os complaint.
In considering whether Arrow exercised extra care, Ive looked at how Arrow responded to 
Miss Os emails and calls. Im aware that Miss o sent several emails between April and July 
2020 which werent responded to. Arrow has explained that the emails were caught by a 
profanity filter. Whilst I understand that Arrow has the right to block emails containing 
profanity, I would expect any blocked emails to be retrieved within a reasonable time. In this 
case, the emails werent retrieved for several months, which caused Miss O frustration and 
distress because she thought Arrow werent prepared to respond to her. On balance, I think 
Arrow failed to exercise extra care in handling Miss Os complaint.
Taking everything into account, Im of the view that Arrow provided conflicting and 
misleading information to Miss O. It provided a poor level of customer service and failed to 
exercise the extra care required when handling the complaint.
Putting things right
Miss O has said that her negative credit file has impacted her ability to rent a property. I 
dont doubt that the county court judgment affected Miss Os creditworthiness, however, Im 
unable to hold Arrow responsible for this. It wasnt within Arrows power to mark the county 
court judgment as partially settled on the credit file. 
The advice which Arrow gave Miss O in relation to the county court judgment was 
misleading and has caused her to have a false expectation that her credit file would be 
amended. Its clear that the issue surrounding the credit file have impacted Miss O and shes 
suffered a degree of distress and inconvenience as a result. Given her vulnerability  about 
which arrow was aware  I think the impact on Miss O has been greater. And I cant see that 
Arrow took extra care to consider Miss Os vulnerability when it offered compensation. Therefore, I think Arrow should increase the compensation to recognise the additional 
impact this has had on Miss O.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. 
Arrow Global Limited must pay further compensation of £300 to Miss O. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman