DRN-4191340
The complaint
Mr J complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on a motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint was a hatchback car with a diesel engine, 
first registered in March 2012.
For the year from early May 2022, Mr J had the car insured on a comprehensive policy. The 
policy was branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. Skyfire was the insurance 
company that was responsible for dealing with any claim. Any claim for damage (except to 
glass) was subject to an excess of £550.00.
Much of the complaint is about acts, omissions and communications of the intermediary on 
behalf of Skyfire. Insofar as I hold Skyfire responsible for them, I may refer to them as 
Skyfires acts, omissions and communications.
Unfortunately, in late September 2022, Mr J reported to Skyfire that an unidentified third 
party had hit his car.
Mr J complained to Skyfire about how it was handling his claim.
Skyfire said the car was a total loss.
On about 4 October 2022, Skyfire said the cars pre-accident value had been £2,734.50.
Mr J complained to Skyfire that it should value it at over £5,000.00.
Skyfire arranged for an engineer to review the valuation, but that didnt happen until about 9 
November 2022.
Skyfire apologised and said it was sending Mr J a cheque for £127.38. But it didnt increase 
its valuation.
Mr J brought his complaint to us in mid-February 2023.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Skyfire acted unfairly with the valuation given.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Skyfire didnt mention that, after it had been written off, he could have purchased the 
car back. He probably would have done this.
Comparable cars were being listed in excess of £4,500.00. To get a reduction to 
about £2,700.00 is fanciful.
Prices rose during Skyfires delays.
The car he ended up purchasing was 3 years older and cost £3,000.00. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We expect an insurer to value a used car by reference to retail figures in certain trade 
guides. We usually find such figures persuasive because they are based on extensive 
research of likely selling prices.
Compared to the trade guides, we usually find advertisements less reliable because they 
contain the sellers asking prices, which are subject to negotiation downwards. 
Typically, each trade guide gives a different figure, so that they form a range. We might 
disregard one figure that is out of line with the others. Subject to that, we often say that any 
figure in the range is a reasonable figure.
From the statement of insurance document from May 2022, Ive seen a figure of £3,095.00 
for Mr Js car. 
Ive noted the make, model, specification, age, mileage and condition of Mr Js car before 
the accident in September 2022.
From my review of the webchats, I see that Mr J was reluctant to be without his car, even for 
a period of days while Skyfire or its engineers assessed it. I accept that Skyfire said that this 
was because the car was worth more than £5,000.00. However, I dont consider that it is fair 
and reasonable to direct Skyfire to pay that figure for the car.
For a vehicle like Mr Js in September 2022, Skyfire saw retail figures in the CAP and Cazoo 
trade guides. Our investigator checked those figures and also found figures in the Glasss 
and Auto Trader guides. Together they were as follows:
Glass £2,580.00
CAP £2,675.00
Cazoo £2,775.00 
Auto Trader £2,956.00
Skyfires figure of £2,734.50 was well within the range of those figures and I dont find that it 
treated Mr J unfairly or unreasonably. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Skyfire to 
increase the valuation.
From my review of the webchats, Ive seen that Mr J didnt allow Skyfire to collect the car in 
late September or early October 2022. He said that the car was fine, and he was still racking 
up miles on it.
From a DVLA vehicle check, Ive seen that the cars MOT expired on 1 February 2023.When he brought his complaint to us in mid-February 2023, Mr Js complaint form didnt say 
that he wouldve wanted to buy back or salvage the car after Skyfire wrote it off. Rather he 
said the following:
.. I've ended up holding onto the car that was written off for as long as possible to 
argue my case. However the MOT is up on the car that is written off and I see no 
reason to MOT it for the insurance
So I find that Mr J had kept the damaged car and continued to drive it after the accident in 
September 2022 and until the MOT expired in February 2023. For that reason, I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct Skyfire to pay Mr J interest for any delay in payment of his 
claim, or to compensate him for any consequences such as any increase in used car prices.
Overall I dont conclude that Skyfire treated Mr J unfairly, so I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct Skyfire to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman