DRN-4331529
The complaint
Mr V complains that CIGNA life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV has turned down a 
claim he made on a private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive set out a brief 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr V is insured under a group private medical insurance policy.
In December 2020, Mr V travelled abroad. On 18 February 2021, while Mr V remained 
abroad, he suffered from back pain and other associated symptoms. He visited a hospital 
and was diagnosed with a herniated disc. The hospital arranged for Mr V to undergo surgery 
on the following day.
Mr V contacted CIGNA to obtain pre-authorisation to undergo surgery. CIGNA told Mr V that 
it didnt think the claim would be covered, but that it would assess the claim once it had 
further evidence.
On 19 February 2021, Mr V underwent disc surgery and he made a claim on the policy.
CIGNA said the policy was primarily designed to provide private medical cover in the UK. 
Cover was only provided for emergency treatment which takes place abroad. It didnt think 
Mr V had required surgery as an emergency. So CIGNA turned down his claim. 
Mr V brought a complaint to us about CIGNAs decision, which was assessed in April 2022. 
Our investigator didnt think CIGNA had treated Mr V unfairly. 
Subsequently, Mr V provided CIGNA and our service with further medical evidence, which 
CIGNA went on to assess in April 2023. 
CIGNA reviewed the new medical report Mr V had provided. But it maintained its decision to 
turn down the claim. Thats because it considered the evidence indicated that Mr Vs surgery 
had been elective, rather than surgery hed needed as an emergency. It did agree, however, 
that it had failed to deal with the new evidence and reassess Mr Vs claim in a timely way. So 
it apologised for the delays Mr V had experienced.
Remaining unhappy with CIGNAs position, Mr V asked us to consider a new complaint 
about its reassessment of the claim.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Vs complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy terms 
made it clear that the policy only covered emergency treatment abroad. And he didnt think 
the evidence indicated that Mr V had needed spinal surgery as an emergency.
Mr V disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He acknowledged that the medical report 
didnt refer specifically to the surgery being carried out as an emergency. But he said that 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic at the time, only emergency surgeries were being carried out 
at the hospital. And he felt that redress should be awarded for CIGNAs failure to reassess 
his claim and respond to his complaint.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr V, I dont think it was unfair for CIGNA 
to turn down his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the group policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think CIGNA 
handled Mr Vs claim fairly.
At the outset, I must make it clear I will only be looking at the decision CIGNA made in April 
2023 to turn down Mr Vs claim. Mr Vs previous complaint was assessed separately by an 
investigator in April 2022 and so I wont be making any findings on CIGNAs initial decision 
to decline the claim.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Vs 
employers group contract with CIGNA. 
The policy refers to medical care outside the UK. It says:
Your plan is designed to primarily cover you for medical care received in the United 
Kingdom. If you go abroad on business or on holiday, your benefits continue for 
emergencies only, up to the level of your UK benefits cover for up to 90 days in any one year 
of insurance
Please note that overseas cover under this plan is limited. You should take out an 
appropriate level of travel insurance before travelling abroad. This will offer more 
comprehensive cover for medical costs outside the United Kingdom than this plan can 
provide.
Section 3.3 of the contract explains CIGNAs cover for treatment abroad further. Ive set out 
what I think are the relevant terms below:
We cover eligible treatment in emergency situations only. If you claim for this you must also 
send us proof of how long you spent abroad which should be no more than a total of 90 days 
in any one year of insurance (or longer if we agree in writing). If any terms in the policy only 
relate to the United Kingdom, well use those we believe are the closest in meaning to the 
foreign term.
For the purposes of this benefit Emergency is defined as: treatment which is medically 
necessary to prevent the immediate and significant effect of illnesses, injuries or conditions 
which if left untreated could result in a significant deterioration in health. Only medical 
treatment through a specialist and hospitalisation that starts within 24 hours of the 
emergency event will be covered.
This section of the policy also includes a list of things CIGNA has chosen to exclude from 
cover. This list includes the following:Treatment which has started in the United Kingdom and requires continuation while abroad 
will not be covered as this is not considered an emergency.
In my view, CIGNA has clearly set out in the policy terms that it will only cover treatment 
abroad in emergency situations. It doesnt consider that the medical report Mr V has 
provided indicates that he required surgery as an emergency. So Ive carefully considered 
the available evidence to decide whether I think this was a fair conclusion for CIGNA to 
draw.
Mr V has provided a medical report from his treating doctor. This diagnosed Mr V with large 
left-sided L5/L5 extruded disc herniation with inferior migration. The doctor said that Mr V:
has been complaining for two months of progressive low back pain and severe, radiating 
pain in the lower extremity. At the time of presentation, he reported associated numbness 
and weakness in his left lower extremity. His ability to ambulate and perform usual activities 
was impaired.
He had failed a full range of conservative treatment optionsthe patient wishes for definitive 
treatment to return to work and daily activities.
The doctors letter indicates that Mr V was in pain and that conservative management 
techniques hadnt worked. CIGNA says that Mr V contacted it for authorisation of 
physiotherapy and osteopathic treatment for back pain in August, September and November 
2020 - before hed travelled abroad. While its clear Mr V had been in pain for some months 
before his operation and I sympathise with his situation; it does seem that Mr V had sought 
treatment for his back pain and radiating pain prior to leaving the UK. And so I dont think it 
was unreasonable for CIGNA to conclude that Mr Vs treatment for back pain had started in 
the UK. 
I can understand why Mr V considers that he needed surgery as an emergency. He says he 
couldnt walk and had concerns about long-term spinal damage. Im also mindful that Covid-
19 may have had on impact on how surgeries were prioritised at the time. 
But I dont think it was unfair for CIGNA to decide that Mr V hadnt needed surgery as an 
emergency. I say that because, by the doctors account, Mr V wished for definitive 
treatment so he could return to work and daily activities. The doctor hasnt indicated that 
they felt Mr V needed the surgery as an emergency, or that there was a risk of him suffering 
paralysis or severe spinal damage if surgery didnt take place as a matter of urgency. 
Instead, I think it was reasonable for CIGNA to rely on the contemporaneous evidence to 
reach the conclusion that Mr V wanted the surgery as an elective procedure to provide a 
definitive cure for ongoing symptoms. And so it follows that I dont find CIGNA treated Mr V 
unfairly when it turned down his claim.
Mr V is also unhappy with CIGNAs significant delay in assessing the new evidence and 
providing its response. CIGNA has accepted the delay was unacceptable and apologised for 
its error. I do appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mr V when CIGNA didnt move 
things along or keep him updated. I also accept he was likely put to time and trouble in 
having to chase things up. However, were not the industry regulator and we have no power 
to fine or punish the businesses we cover. And, in the circumstances, I think that CIGNAs 
apology for the unnecessary delays Mr V experienced is enough to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint,Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman