DRN-4441414
The complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to refund transactions she 
didnt recognise and experienced poor service when reporting the issue.
What happened
Miss M noticed a payment leaving her account to a merchant that she didnt recognise and 
called Santander about it. It was then discovered that two unrecognised payments (both for 
£15.00 to two different merchants) had been leaving her account each month for some time. 
The two merchants who were receiving the funds both offered a monthly membership to 
obtain various discount codes for use with other businesses.
Miss M had several conversations with various Santander employees  two of which Miss M 
was particularly distressed about. She says she was subject to rude, unprofessional and 
bullying treatment when trying to deal with the transactions she didnt recognise.
Miss M also said that some of the employees dealt with her sympathetically and arranged for 
a goodwill payment of £30 to be paid to her for one of the calls where she experienced this 
poor service.
Santander initially advised that these payments (first noted in 2023) went back to 2021 and 
they later found theyd started back in 2019. Santander told Miss M they could refund some 
of them and her account was credited with eight payments.
Miss M was also given conflicting information by Santander on what period of time they 
could go back (either six months or 13 months). Miss M was asked about the use of her 
online banking where she advised she used it several times per month but hadnt noticed 
these payments leaving her account. 
Miss M confirmed she hadnt given her card details to anyone or allowed others to use her 
account. She also confirmed she had sole use of her email account. Miss M told Santander 
she didnt recognise the two merchants who were taking her money.
Santander looked into the matter and found that the payments were set up as recurring 
transactions meaning that both merchants had used Miss Ms card details to arrange (in this 
case) monthly charges against her card. Santander spoke to one of the merchants who 
confirmed Miss M had an account with them and they held her correct details including her 
name, address and email along with the card details necessary to set up the recurring 
payment.
Santander cancelled the recurring payments but didnt make any further refunds additional to 
the eight already made. Miss M was unhappy with this as she maintained she had no 
knowledge of the merchants or had ever signed up to their services. She lodged a complaint 
with Santander about their decision and treatment shed received.
Santander examined what had happened and wrote to Miss M with the results of their own 
investigation. They told Miss M that there was no evidence of a compromise of her card 
details, and they werent upholding her complaint.
Miss M remained unhappy with Santanders review of her situation and brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. Her complaint 
was looked into by an investigator who asked both parties for information about the issue.
Miss M explained what had happened and detailed her treatment by Santander. She 
commented that the merchant(s) had many complaints concerning the use of peoples 
payment cards and she hadnt any knowledge of dealing with them. Whilst Miss M used her 
online accounts regularly, she said she didnt notice them (the disputed transactions) due to 
the small amount of the payment.
Miss M confirmed the security of her card details and said shed never received any emails 
from the merchants (but did get many junk messages in her email). Miss M was particularly 
upset about the treatment she received from a couple of call handlers and wanted her calls 
listening to.
Santander provided audit data about the payments, including evidence of the first use of her 
card by the merchant to register it as a recurring payment. They also supplied copies of calls 
they held with Miss M. Information was also provided of their own investigation.
After considering the evidence supplied by both parties the investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He commented that:
Miss M has sole control of her card, phone and email account.
The investigator spoke with the merchants who confirmed Miss M had an account 
with them.
It was unlikely that anyone other than Miss M would use her credentials with the 
merchant as only she could benefit from them.
Miss M was a regular user of her online banking but hadnt noticed any of these 
payments leaving her account between 2019 and 2023.
Miss Ms online banking showed she used it on the same date these payments were 
made to the merchants so would have seen them. 
Miss M strongly disagreed with the investigators outcome and said she didnt feel heard 
and felt her complaint hadnt been investigated fully. Miss M wanted a further review of her 
complaint which has now been passed to me for a decision.
As part of my own investigation, it became apparent that part of Miss Ms complaint had 
been inadvertently missed by Santander and our service relating to one of the calls Miss M 
complained about.  I asked for a further investigation into this and for Santander to 
specifically deal with the treatment experienced by Miss M.
They responded and agreed that shed experienced poor service and offered £50 to 
recognise the impact this had on her. The investigator thought this was a fair way to deal 
with the issue. Miss M hasnt responded to this additional complaint point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My overall decision here is to uphold  in part  the complaint made by Miss M. In summary, 
Ill be upholding her complaint about the treatment she received, but not the substantive 
complaint concerning the disputed transactions, and Ill explain why.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Santander can hold Miss M liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Santander can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss M 
authorised the transaction(s), but Santander cannot say that the use of the card details for 
online payments conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Santander can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss Ms account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Miss M. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss M responsible for the disputed 
transaction(s) or not.
It's Miss Ms case that she had no relationship with either merchant and the transactions 
werent authorised by herself. Santander have relied on their audit evidence and a 
conversation with the merchant to state their belief that Miss M was responsible.
The type of services offered by both merchants are often linked to free trial periods but 
require the applicant to sign up with their payment card and cancel the membership if no 
longer required. 
Both Santander and our service spoke with the merchants who confirmed they held details 
relating to Miss M, including her current email address and payment card details. Generally, 
I wouldnt expect them to have these details without some form of contact from the card 
holder (here Miss M), which she denies.
Both merchants started the collection of the payments by first registering the card with 
Santander back in 2019, the first payments were taken the following month. This is a fairly 
typical pattern of the end of a trial period and the beginning of paid membership. I 
understand Miss Ms comments that she didnt sign up with these merchants  but the 
evidence shows that her card and personal details, including her email address were used to 
set up the membership.
The first payments were about four years ago, so its understandable that memories may be 
less clear than they are today, and I think it would be easy to sign up for a free trial and 
then forget about it. I can also see why they payments werent noticed because theyre 
relatively small and the trial may have been forgotten about at the time. So, I can appreciate 
why Miss M feels as though she never authorised those payments, but here, the evidence 
supplied by Santander shows her card and personal details being held by the merchant and 
her card being used for the recurring payment.
I havent further examined Santanders decision to refund eight payments to Miss M when 
she first reported the problem. This was Santanders own decision and I make no further 
comment. 
The evidence that Ive considered leads me to the conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not that Miss M authorised her card details to be used to 
make the payments. So, taking everything into account, I think it is fair and reasonable for 
Santander to hold Miss M responsible for these transactions.
Customer Service
I dont think theres any doubt that Miss M experienced a couple of conversations with 
Santander call handlers that left her upset and stressed due to the way she was dealt with. 
Its also clear to me that Miss M recognised that other call handlers dealt with her 
professionally and appropriately.
Santander recognised this at the time related to one call and made a £30 payment to Miss 
M. After being asked to review the second call that Miss M complained about, Santander 
offered a further £50 compensation.
Having examined the available evidence concerning this and the impact Miss M 
experienced, I think the overall payment of £80 is a fair and reasonable way for Santander to 
deal with this aspect of the complaint. 
Putting things right
Im upholding the customer service aspect of Miss Ms complaint and Santander should now 
arrange to pay the outstanding £50 already offered by them. For clarity, Im not upholding 
the complaint concerning the disputed transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold, in part, Miss Ms complaint against Santander UK Plc. Theyre 
now required to settle the matter as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman