DRN-3992642
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the outcome of his property insurance claim with Society of Lloyds.
What happened
Mr B had insurance with Lloyds for a property he rents out, but which he also resides at as 
and when needed. It was flooded in December 2021 and required significant repairs. The 
claim was accepted but Mr B wasnt happy with the time it was taking to progress so ended 
up accepting a cash settlement in July 2022.
Mr B says the cash settlement was delayed as well, which meant works couldnt be 
completed as quickly as planned. He also says additional loss of rent and alternative 
accommodation costs werent factored into the cash settlement.
Lloyds didnt think further loss of rent or alternative accommodation costs were warranted as 
the cash settlement was full and final.
An investigator here looked into the matter and agreed that Lloyds had handled the matter 
reasonably. Mr B didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. I 
note that he accepted a cash settlement on a full and final basis.
Mr Bs dissatisfaction stems from his view that the cash settlement  which he agreed to  
took longer than he had expected it to, and because of that, repairs were delayed and further 
losses incurred. But I dont agree the settlement took overly long to process. It was in excess 
of £100,000 and so I would expect that to take some time to go through, with internal sign off 
processes and such like required.
Further, while Mr B says he didnt believe further losses may be precluded from the full and 
final settlement  and that those hadnt been agreed there is evidence to the contrary. While 
I can appreciate Mr B may consider the evidence to be false Im not satisfied thats the case.
Lloyds has provided a report from their loss adjusters from June 2022 to show that Mr B did 
not intend to claim any further hotel stays (alternative accommodation). And theres a 
second note which confirms the same. In view of that I doubt theyre false nor that they were 
created at the 11th hour to defend Lloyds position.
Overall, while I appreciate Mr Bs concerns, he agreed to a full and final cash settlement and 
it wasnt unreasonably delayed. So, I dont think Lloyds should be required to make any 
further payments to him.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman