DRN-3095691
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) has made 
various mistakes and hasnt carried out her instructions correctly, which she says has 
caused her financial loss. 
Mrs S is being represented by her husband, Mr S. All references to Mrs S will include 
information and submissions made by Mr S.
What happened
Mrs S had an execution only service with HL. She had a Fund and Share account (the 
F&S or account) and a Self-Investment Personal Pension (SIPP). She also has an 
Individual Savings Account.
From early 2020 onwards, Mrs S says shes had difficulties in placing trades (deals) 
particularly around setting limit orders. She says shes also had trouble with HLs live 
streaming service. In summary, Mrs S has made the following complaints to HL and has 
received the following responses:
Date 
complaint 
raisedDetail of complaint Date of final 
response letter 
(FRL)Upheld/Rejected Gesture of 
goodwill 
given
09.03.20 Execution of limit order 26.03.20 Rejected £50  
26.03.20 Execution of limit order 09.04.20 Rejected £50
26.05.20 Unable to view live 
prices on HL website26.05.20 Rejected £50
28.05.20 Unable to view live 
prices on HL website28.05.20 Rejected £50
12.06.20 Unable to view live 
prices on HL website12.06.20 Rejected £50
02.06.20 Unable to view live 
prices on HL website16.06.20 Rejected £100
In terms of the FRL dated 26 March 2020, this related to two limit orders Mrs S said she tried 
to place on 9 March. She said the online system didnt register her instructions and then 
when she contacted HL, it took two hours to speak with an agent. HL responded saying that 
it could see Mrs S successfully accessed the limit order sections on her account on several 
occasions between 4am and 11:30pm on the date in question. Whilst it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong, in a bid to resolve things amicably, it agreed to pay Mrs S £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
The FRL dated 9 April 2020 related to a limit order placed by Mrs S through both her SIPP 
and F&S accounts on 16 March 2020. Both orders related to the purchase of shares in a 
company Ill refer to as B. The limit order was set at 103pence per share. Mrs S says that 
HL didnt execute this order in line with her instructions because the price fell to 
102.90pence per share and the shares werent purchased. But HL said that during the 
period the limit orders were active the price for Bs shares didnt drop below the 103pence 
limit, so the order wasnt executed.
In terms of the issues around the live streaming prices, HL acknowledged that some clients 
had experienced difficulties with viewing live prices. Specifically, the live prices werent 
updating between 8:00am-8:20am. HL went on to say that it had taken steps to try to resolve 
this matter with a third party contractor. HL said despite this ongoing issue, Mrs S hadnt 
faced any outage, or complete inability to trade and was still able to view her account. And 
she hasnt been prevented from obtaining live prices from its Dealing Desk or externally. 
Whilst the above complaints were with our service, Mrs S added further complaints which HL 
has responded to as follows:
On 26 January 2021 (FRL dated 10 March 2021), Mrs S tried to place a deal in a 
company Ill refer to as R. The quote she received was rescinded meaning that she 
had to get another quote and buy at a higher price. HL said that it rejected this 
complaint because it was the market makers who had rescinded the quote by the 
time Mrs S had tried to accept it. It said this is a risk when dealing in shares for which 
it has no control.
On 17 February 2021 (FRL dated 13 April 2021), Mrs Ss representative, Mr S, called 
HL and spoke with its Dealing Desk. During this call Mr S said that a deal in a 
company Ill call T, had been executed at the limit order price of $32 rather than the 
requested limit order price of $30. During the call with Mr S, HL discovered the 
market maker had made this error. Mr S asked HL to reverse the trade and to 
remove the limit order. He didnt want the limit order reinstated but he said he was 
planning to trade in other shares. HL said to ensure that Mrs S wasnt disadvantaged, 
it offered her representative (Mr S) the ability to trade over the phone at nil 
commission until the funds were available for online reinvestment. But Mr S hadnt 
wanted this.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaints. She didnt think the unavailability of the live 
streaming prices at certain times, had caused Mrs S any loss and wasnt a guaranteed 
service. She also didnt think HL had made an error with any of the limit orders Mrs S had 
placed in 2020. Overall, our investigator thought a total of £350, was fair compensation for 
the matters Mrs S raised in 2020. In terms of the latest complaints from 2021, our 
investigator concluded that HL couldnt be held responsible for the market maker 
withdrawing its quote. And for the mistake made regarding the limit order in February 2021, 
she considered HL had rectified the error by fairly offering Mr S the ability to continue trading 
on behalf of Mrs S. 
Mrs S disagreed. She said given HL had compensated for other errors which were less 
serious, she wouldve expected it to pay more for the error experienced more recently. So 
the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully noted all the representations made by Mrs Ss representative, Mr S, but I wont 
be addressing every single point hes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think 
are central to the outcome of Mrs Ss complaint. I'll also mention at this stage that where 
there's a dispute about what happened I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
I appreciate Mrs S may find it frustrating that the live streaming service is unavailable at 
some points during the day. And she says that this has prevented her from trading. But I can 
see she has other ways to access live prices including HLs Dealing Desk. Not having 
access to this service didnt prevent Mrs S from dealing when she wanted to. Further, the 
terms of the account make it reasonably clear that this aspect of HLs service isnt 
guaranteed at all times where it says:
We cannot guarantee that access to, or trading in, your Accounts via the HL Website, HL 
Mobile Application, by telephone or by post will be available at all times or without delay. You 
acknowledge that the HL Service may be interrupted and the services available may be 
variable in certain circumstances.
Mrs S does also have the option to independently check for the live prices if this is 
something she considers to be important for her decision making. But I cant fairly find that 
HL is acting unreasonably during the times its unable to provide this service to Mrs S which, 
as Ive said, appears to be limited, for the most part, to around 20 minutes each day. And I 
can see that HL has taken steps to fix the issues its experience with this service. I think the 
compensation paid by HL as goodwill gestures as Ive outlined above, is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances.
In terms of the limit order placed on 9 March 2020, from what I can see Mrs S did access the 
relevant sections of her account.  So, on balance, I cant fairly say HL prevented Mrs S from 
placing any limit orders she thought were necessary at that time. HL did pay Mrs S £50 for 
any customer service issues she may have experienced with its call waiting times. I dont 
think HL needs to do anything further in this regard. 
Im also satisfied that HL correctly carried out Mrs Ss limit orders placed on 16 March 2020 
(FRL dated 9 April 2020). Whilst Mrs S says the price dropped below the limit price of 
103pence per share, shes not provided any persuasive evidence of this. So, I can only 
conclude, on balance, that her instructions were executed correctly in line with the London 
Stock Exchanges prices shown on that day, where the offer price didnt drop to, or below, 
the 103pence per share price shed set.
In respect of the withdrawal of the price Mrs S was quoted for Rs shares, I cant fairly say 
HL has done anything wrong here. It wasnt HLs actions that led to the value being 
determined or changed by a poll of market makers. As an execution only service, HL needed 
to act on Mrs Ss instructions to buy/ sell at the best price. As it explained, at the time Mrs S 
accepted, there wasnt a market maker willing to sell the shares at the price Mrs S had seen 
quoted. The markets do change rapidly, and its not unusual for prices to change in response 
to prevailing market conditions. HL didnt set the prices that were quoted so, Im not 
persuaded HL did anything wrong regarding this aspect of Mrs Ss complaint.
I can see a mistake was made in terms of the execution of the limit order placed in February 
2021. This error was made by the market maker not correctly following the instructions HL 
had passed on. From the evidence, Im satisfied that HL did issue correct instructions to the 
market makers. Nonetheless, I can see HL did take responsibility for this by ensuring Mrs S 
wasnt disadvantaged. Ive listened to the call between Mrs Ss representative, Mr S and HL. 
The HL agent offered to allow Mr S, on behalf of Mrs S, to continue to trade whilst the refund 
was being processed. This meant that Mr S didnt need to wait for the refund to come 
through the next day. The agent also offered to carry out any trade at nil commission. Mr S 
declined this offer and said he wanted compensation. All in all, I think HL has acted fairly when a mistake was made by the market maker. When 
awarding compensation our service would try to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been but for the mistake. HLs offer wouldve achieved this but it was declined by 
Mr S acting on behalf of Mrs S. So, I dont think any compensation is due to Mrs S.
Mrs S says she was left without her funds for more than a week and made repeated calls to 
HL about this. But Ive not seen any persuasive evidence of these claims. From what Ive 
seen the refund was received the next day and the position was corrected in line with 
Mrs Ss instructions to cancel the limit order for Ts shares. And as Ive said, she did have 
the opportunity to trade prior to the refund being received, but she, through her 
representative, chose not to exercise this option. Even where a business has made a 
mistake, wed usually expect a consumer to mitigate their losses. I dont think HL needs to 
do anything more to put this matter right. 
Finally, HL has paid Mrs S a total of £350 in goodwill gestures. Overall, for all the reasons 
Ive outlined above, I think its acted fairly and reasonably in regards to the issues Mrs S has 
brought to our service. I wont be asking it to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman