DRN-2482833
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) refused to credit his bank account before 
hed received the corresponding funds.
What happened
Mr D holds a personal bank account with HSBC. He told HSBC he was due to receive a 
payment from HMRC of £150 million and so asked for his account to be credited with that 
amount. 
HSBC refused to credit his account for this amount. It said he hadnt provided any evidence 
that he was due to receive this amount, and no funds had been deposited with it in his name.
Mr D was unhappy with this and complained to HSBC. It rejected his complaint. It said that 
the only way it would credit his account with this amount was if it received funds to do so, 
and if it did so it would need to make enquiries to confirm the source of the money and how it 
was obtained.
As Mr D remained dissatisfied, he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. He thought that HSBC had acted reasonably in 
declining to credit Mr Ds account in the absence of funds being received from HMRC. Mr D 
didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded that HSBC has done anything wrong here. I dont think its reasonable to 
expect it to credit Mr Ds account with such a significant sum of money in the absence of 
funds payable to Mr D being deposited for this amount. 
I know Mr D thinks that evidence hes provided shows hes due to receive this money from 
HMRC, but I cant agree that this is the case. Theres nothing from HMRC to show this, and 
his evidence appears to be self-assessments completed by him which calculate that this 
amount is due.
HSBC has said it doesnt provide cash advances to personal accounts, and it doesnt have a 
history of loaning customers £150 million. So what Mr D is asking for is not a service HSBC 
provide, and its for an amount they have no history of lending. Its not reasonable to expect 
it to credit Mr Ds account for this amount in light of this.
HSBC has said that, if the funds are deposited and the necessary checks are satisfactorily 
completed, the funds will be credited to Mr Ds account. This is all that it could reasonably be 
expected to do in this case. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman