DRN-3080627
The complaint
Mr H has complained that his motor insurer, esure Insurance Limited (Esure) has declined 
his claim made when he crashed his car. 
What happened
Mr H called Esure on 24 December 2020 and reported hed slid on a bend where water was 
flooding across the road, lost control and crashed into a hedge. Esures garage took photos 
of the car and measured the tread depth on each of the cars tyres. The report was sent to 
Esure and reviewed by its engineers. The engineers said both front tyres were illegal and 
unroadworthy, so Esure declined Mr Hs claim.
Mr H took the car to his own garage. His garage, focussing on the front passenger side tyre, 
said it had only become unroadworthy during the crash and whilst recovering the car from 
the hedge. Mr H also told Esure that the police had checked his car at the scene, found it 
roadworthy and determined the cause of the crash had been ice formed on field-water 
run-off, on an ungritted road. Esure didnt accept that Mr H had maintained his car in line 
with the terms of his policy and it believed the condition of the tyres had likely contributed to 
the crash. It maintained its decline of the claim.
Mr H complained to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt the 
passenger tyre may have been damaged during the crash, but that it seemed likely the 
drivers side tyre was in a poor condition too. Mr H felt our investigator had muddled up the 
measurements of the two front tyres. He said he had a maintenance agreement for his tyres 
which meant that once the tread reached 2mm he could replace them. He said hed been 
monitoring the car before the crash, so he knew the tyres were nearly at 2mm (legal limit 
being 1.6mm) and had planned to replace them in the new year. He said he felt it was unfair 
for focus to now fall on the drivers side tyre as this hadnt been relied upon by Esure and 
even its own garages measurements showed its tread depth was legal.
The complaint was passed to me for consideration. I wasnt minded to uphold it either. But 
my reasoning differed to that of our investigator. So I issued a provisional decision. My 
findings of which were:
This complaint mostly turns on the expert evidence presented by both sides. And, for me, 
the key testimony centres around the condition of the front passenger side tyre. At times 
during this claim Esure has talked about the state of both of the front tyres  but Im 
discounting its comments about the drivers side tyre. Esures garage photographed the 
drivers side tyre, but not extensively. It measured the tread depth. The measurements 
recorded were 3mm on the outside of the tyre and 1.6mm in the centre and on the inner 
edge. Id expect a garage to measure the area of the tyre with the least tread. And nothing 
Ive seen makes me think the garage didnt do this here. Esures engineer then viewed the 
photos and said both front tyres were in an illegal state and unroadworthy  but the engineer 
did not explain how he determined this about the drivers side tyre when the garage which 
measured it, documented road legal measurements. So Im simply not persuaded by the 
evidence Esure has submitted that the drivers side tyre was illegal or unroadworthy.
Turning to the passenger side tyre; I think the evidence and arguments in respect of this 
tyre, put forwards by Esures garage and engineers, and Mr Hs garage are mostly totally at 
odds with each other. Therefore, Ive considered the details provided by both sides in order 
to determine which evidence Im more, or less, persuaded by. Ive laid out what I see as the 
key points made by the experts below.
Mr Hs garage said the passenger side tyre:
Was showing damage from the twisted oil cooler bracket which had caught on the tyre 
exposing some wire from the tyre.
At the time of the accident the tyre was at or near the legal limit.
The tyre tread depth assessed after the accident was 2.2mm, with 2.5mm being 
recorded on the outer edge.
The tread in the centre of the tyre was scrubbed by the cooler when it was caught 
against it.
Esures garage and engineer said:
The tyre tread depths on the outside edge, in the centre and at the inner edge were 
2mm, 1mm and 0mm respectively.
The inner edge was so worn the tyre cord was exposed.
The video taken by Mr Hs garage shows the central tread depth at 1mm.
Its unlikely such extensive wear could have been caused during the accident or recovery 
of the car. Rather the tyre was likely illegal before the accident.
The type of car and its tyres mean the potential for wear of the front tyres is great.
The wear in question is unlikely to have been caused in the way suggested (by repeated 
attempts to recover the car whilst it was suffering damage).
The likely pre-accident condition of the tyre would have been detrimental in wet 
conditions (although Esure also notes that the report of the accident being caused by a 
flooded road, changed to iced over field run-off, and that no evidence to support the road 
conditions was presented).
I also note that Mr H has made the following comments (summarised by me):
Prior to the accident hed been checking his car regularly as he was aware the front tyres 
would shortly need changing, that they were approaching a tread depth of just 2mm, at 
which point he could have them replaced under his tyre maintenance package.
The inner edge of the tyre was affected by the damaged cooler being lodged against the 
tyre wall as a result of the accident whilst the car was being recovered. Photos from 
Esures garage show the cooler in this position. 
The tread in the centre of the tyre was scrubbed by the cooler during recovery. Photos 
from the scene show the cooler was affecting the centre of the tyre.
The police didnt find the car was unroadworthy.
Having carefully considered all of the expert evidence, I find Im least persuaded by the 
details given by Mr Hs garage. The evidence the garage has given about tyre depths and 
what caused the condition of the tyre, seems to me to be somewhat inconsistent. For 
example the first evidence the garage gave was a letter dated 10 February 2021. This talked 
about the tyre being legal before the crash and said the tread depth (after the crash) was 
2.2mm. Yet in a conversation with Mr H the garage said that the tread depth on the outer 
edge was 2.5mm. But the video evidence submitted shows that the outer edge of the tyre 
has a tread depth of 2mm and the centre part is only 1mm. Further, the letter said the inner 
edge had been damage by the cooler, and in the video the garage said the tread in the 
centre of the tyre had been scrubbed by the cooler. The damage at the inner edge, or what 
may have caused it, wasnt mentioned. But in the conversation with Mr H the garage said 
that both the inner edge and the centre of the tyre had been damaged by the cooler. So 
I dont think Mr Hs garages evidence is consistent.I have further difficulty with the evidence from Mr Hs garage when I set it in light of the 
comments Mr H has made. I agree that photos from the scene do show the cooler in a 
position in front of the centre of the tyre (although this was after the car was moved out from 
the hedge). But I note that Mr Hs first argument was that the inner edge of the tyre was 
damaged by the cooler being caught on it. The only evidence showing the cooler in a 
position where it might connect with the inner edge of the tyre is a photo from when the car 
was at Esures garage after it had been moved from the site of the crash. Although, again, 
I cant be sure what position the wheel and cooler were in whilst the car was in the hedge. 
Im also mindful that Mr H himself says the front tyres were nearing the point of needing 
replacing at some time before the crash. He has not been specific as to when he measured 
them, or provided any evidence of any measurements that were taken or indeed how he 
took those measurements. But he says the tyre in question was nearly at 2mm before the 
incident on 24 December 2020. So if hes correct, Id have to accept that as a result of the 
crash, when he tried to reverse the car, at least a whole millimetre of tread was worn away 
across the majority of the centre of the tyre, with a full 2mm of excessive wear occurring at 
the inner edge. I note Esures engineers opinion is that such wear is unlikely to have been 
caused in the way Mr H has described. And I think thats reasonable. It just doesnt seem 
logical to me that tyres designed to withstand thousands of miles of road wear across 
differing conditions and terrain, would suffer such significant wear in a very short space of 
time. And I say that even accounting for the fact of unknown debris on the ground as well as 
in and around the hedge, that the cooler likely had some contact with some of the tyre 
rubbing it excessively and that Mr H says he made repeated attempts to reverse his car 
causing the wheels to spin. 
So Ive found that Im not persuaded by what Mr Hs garage has said. Or that Mr Hs own 
testimony suggests the passenger side tyre was most likely significantly damaged during the 
crash such that its illegal condition wasnt reflective of its state before the accident occurred. 
Mr H has said that Esure shouldve obtained the police report. I agree that an insurer will 
sometimes want to obtain details from the police and its more usual for an insurer to ask the 
police for a report than a policyholder. But an insurer isnt bound to obtain this. And here 
I see that Mr H feels the report would support his position and I wouldnt usually expect an 
insurer to obtain evidence just because it may support its policyholders position. Rather an 
insurer needs to gather evidence it wishes to submit to support its position on a claim in 
order to show it has acted reasonably. And if the policyholder wants to evidence their loss 
and show that their position is correct, it is up to them to produce evidence to support that. 
So here, with Mr H believing the police report would show that the road conditions caused 
the crash rather than the passenger side tyre, it was up to him to obtain it. And I note that the 
police didnt tell Mr H that Esure should obtain it. Rather the police said its usual for an 
insurer to do that but if Mr H wanted to ask for it himself, he just had to provide some details.
Turning to Mr Hs obligations under the policy; Esures policy requires him to ensure his car 
is in a roadworthy condition and that certain parts of it, such as the tyres, also meet legal 
requirements. The legal requirement in question is a minimum tread depth of 1.6mm across 
the centre three quarters of the tyre. So, in effect, that the majority of the centre of the tyre is 
at least 1.6mm deep. So one reading of either above or below that figure wouldnt 
necessarily mean the tyre, as a whole, was in breach of the legal requirements. But here 
I note that both garages measured the depth at the centre once and found it was only 1mm. 
I think its unlikely theyd have taken the measurement in exactly the same place. And I note 
that the inner edge was recorded as having no tread at all. So even without taking a view on 
the likely overall depth myself from having seen the photo and video evidence, and bearing 
in mind what Ive said above about the tread depth being unlikely to have resulted from the crash, I think its difficult to reasonably conclude that, before the crash, the tyre most likely 
met the relevant legal requirements.
So Im satisfied that its most likely that Mr H did breach his policy by not ensuring his tyre 
met the minimum legal requirements. If he felt he had done this then, unfortunately for him, 
I think he must have been mistaken in his conclusion. And Im mindful that Esure has said 
that the car, being front wheel drive, would have been affected by a lack of grip caused by 
the tyres condition in the circumstances Mr H described immediately prior to the crash. That 
means that Mr Hs breach of the policy term  to ensure his tyres met the legal requirements 
 was material to the loss he suffered when he slid on a wet and/or frozen road, losing 
control of his car and ending up in a hedge. Im satisfied that Esures decline of Mr Hs claim 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I know Mr H is concerned that Esure took too long to inspect his car. However, I can see that 
he was emailed on 28 December 2020 and when he called Esure on 7 January 2021, he 
was told the claim was under review. Ive taken note of the time of year and that Esures 
garage had clearly completed an initial inspection on 4 January 2021 which was reviewed by 
Esure on 6 January. It was this review which caused Esure to have concerns about the 
tyres, telling Mr H as it did on 7 January of the review. Esure then advised Mr H on 
8 January 2021 that it was declining the claim. Whilst I know Mr H was keen to have his car 
repaired, I dont think Esure acted unreasonably at this time or caused any avoidable delay.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr H obtained the police log for the accident. He said 
this showed the cause of the accident was the road conditions, although doesnt record that 
officers at the scene checked his tyres. He said the log shows that the scene; 
was attended by traffic police. I reconfirm they did check tyres (I was stood near them when 
they checked the driver side) and they raised no concern over the condition of the tyres. 
The new evidence was shared with Esure. Esure said it wasnt persuaded the police log 
changed anything as it didnt confirm the police had checked the tyres on Mr Hs car.
The police log was new evidence which wasnt available to me when I issued my provisional 
findings. So I reviewed the complaint in light of the new evidence. I wasnt persuaded the log 
gave me good cause to change anything I said provisionally. So I issued some further 
findings to both parties to explain my view:
The log notes, that Mr H reported, that black ice on the bend caused the crash. The log 
doesnt confirm or deny whether the police think that is the case. But does show the police 
felt the conditions on the bend were worsening, and the worsening condition of the road 
meant it presented a danger to road users at that time. I dont think that is quite the same as 
the police having determined that the road conditions were the only or main cause of the 
crash Mr H had. 
As Mr H acknowledges, the log doesnt say the police checked the cars tyres at the scene. 
But, accepting for a minute that they did, I bear in mind that the police were looking at Mr Hs 
car in less than ideal conditions: possibly still partly in a hedge, and definitely in the dark and 
wet. Whereas Mr Hs garage, and Esures garage and engineer had the advantage of 
checking the car under more favourable, clearer conditions. So, even in light of the police log 
I still think its reasonable for my findings to remain focused on the experts assessments. As 
such, the detail from the police log hasnt changed my view on this complaint or given me 
cause to amend any of my provisional findings previously issued.Esure said it had nothing to add. Mr H responded in detail, explaining how upset he is over 
this whole matter; that this relates to a life ruining amount of money. Ive summarised and 
bulleted his challenges to my findings below.
Mr H said:
This is all about one tyre which had at least an intercooler stuck in it  its obvious this 
caused the damage and I shouldnt be so unwilling to make that assumption. 
Esure has limited evidence of the tyre being unroadworthy before the accident; it hasnt 
even assessed wear patterns. Or identified any mechanical issue that might have 
caused uneven wear. And its unlikely the tyres would naturally wear so unevenly.
There were damaged body panels, as well as the intercooler and debris from the hedge 
rubbing against the inner edge and centre part of the passenger tyre. Although only the 
intercooler can be shown in photos.
The wear across both front tyres was different, with the passenger side tyre  the one 
most affected by the crash  showing the greatest wear. But in the centre and inner edge 
only, the outer edge of both tyres was the same. So the crash most likely caused the 
excessive wear. 
His garage had confirmed all of this and it wasnt fair I had discounted the evidence, 
merely because of what I had seen as inconsistencies, especially when the mechanic 
isnt adept at providing this type of evidence and English isnt his first language. 
The mechanics lack of eloquence shouldnt stop my piecing together the evidence 
provided in order to see the tyre was only made unroadworthy during, and in the 
aftermath of, the accident. 
Its not fair for me to make my own assumptions about what caused the tyre to become 
unroadworthy  not when his garage has expressed an expert opinion.
Whilst Esure had said the crash and its aftermath was unlikely to have caused the tyre to 
become unroadworthy, he had shown the intercooler alone had done excessive damage.
Its unclear how I can doubt the road conditions and it seems illogical Id suggest theyd 
changed since the police arrived on the scene.
The police report is a transcript and doesnt document everything that happened. But if 
theyd thought anything other than the road conditions were to blame, theyd have 
investigated further.
Maybe the police didnt have a good view  but Esures engineer relied upon unclear 
photos whilst his garage had the car on a ramp and took video footage as evidence.
If this comes down to who had the best view of the tyre  its his garage.
Esure didnt even investigate the car properly, not noting the damaged intercooler and 
making several other mistakes, such as in respect of the drivers side tyre.
Theres so much doubt its unfair for Esure to not pay the claim.
Ive then cast further unnecessary doubt over additional information he has provided and 
thats not a fair way to decide the complaint.
He feels let down by this service and that Esure is being protected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure Mr H that Esure is not being protected. And if Id felt the balance of the 
evidence showed the tyre was most likely only damaged in the crash  that its unlikely it 
was unroadworthy before the accident  then Id say so. However, that isnt the conclusion 
Im led to by my impartial, independent assessment of the evidence before me.I completely understand why Mr H sees the evidence as he does. Why he thinks its only 
logical that the crash caused the tyre to become unroadworthy. But he is not an expert. And 
whilst he has sought to explain his experts opinion, perhaps with a view to dismissing the 
inconsistencies I identified in my provisional decision, I dont find that type of explanation 
persuasive. Effectively Mr H is stating his view of things and presenting it as what his expert 
intended to say but didnt. I was also mindful when assessing this that Mr Hs expert 
evidence came from a garage and I took into account it was likely that presenting evidence 
wasnt something the garage did regularly. But even making allowances for that, the 
evidence presented by the garage wasnt persuasive. I can also assure Mr H that I didnt just 
dismiss this evidence  that would imply I hadnt considered it, and I did, very carefully. As 
I did all the other evidence provided. But, having done that  which I set out in some detail in 
my provisional decision  I found I was most persuaded by what Esure had said. 
I cant just assume what Mr H, or Esure, says is correct. Rather I have to consider the 
evidence and, particularly where there is doubt about what happened, make deductions 
about what I think is most likely. And where there are opposing opinions I have to consider 
which seems more probable, which Ill sometimes do by bringing my own knowledge, 
understanding and logical reasoning to bear. That is not unfair, it is sometimes what I must 
do in order to determine a complaint placed before me for consideration. 
The police log was silent on checking Mr Hs tyres. He may be right that it wasnt 
documented as they checked them and found no issues. But Id think their not finding 
anything would be important to record too. The police clearly chose not to charge Mr H for 
driving with unroadworthy tyres  but I dont know why that was. I never doubted the road 
conditions evidenced by the police log. The log said (my emphasis) the bend is extremely 
wet and starting to freeze and I suspect due to road conditions theres a high possibility for 
further [crashes]. I think my assessment of what that meant for Mr Hs claim and complaint, 
set out in my interim findings, was reasonable. 
Im sorry my assessment of the evidence Mr Hs provided has upset him. But its my job to 
assess the evidence placed before me  I cant consider complaints merely by accepting 
every detail and piece of information at face value. Unfortunately for Mr H, I havent found 
the evidence hes provided to be persuasive  so Ive had to explain that and what that 
means for his complaint against Esure. 
With regret for the further upset I know this will cause Mr H, I confirm that his responses to 
my provisional and interim findings havent changed my view on his complaint. I remain 
satisfied that Esures decline of Mr Hs claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
And in respect of how Esure handled the claim, I still think it didnt act unreasonably or 
caused any avoidable delays.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman