DRN-2033195
The complaint
Mr and Mr S complain that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited mis-sold them a life 
assurance policy in 2005. To resolve their complaint, they want a refund of all the premiums 
they paid for the policy, with interest.  
What happened
Mr and Mr S took out a joint decreasing term assurance policy through a tied agent of 
Prudential in October 2005. The policy offered them an initial £235,000 of life cover for a 25-
year term. It also included terminal illness benefit. 
In August 2019, Mr and Mr S contacted Prudential to query what their policy comprised as 
they had seen the direct debit for the policy when reviewing their finances. Prudential sent 
them a breakdown of the nature of the policy, including the current sum assured.
Mr and Mr S complained. They said they had no idea what theyd been paying for since 
2005, and theyd assumed the policy was a type of boiler cover insurance. They said they 
had no recollection of being sold it, and Prudential hadnt contacted them whatsoever in the 
intervening years. 
Mr and Mr S also said that they felt their policy was financially inappropriate because the 
premium didnt reduce proportionately with the policys sum assured  which itself had no 
bearing to their mortgage lending. They felt Prudential had failed to act in accordance with 
the Financial Conduct Authority principles on treating customers fairly. 
Prudential issued a written response to the complaint on 13 September 2019. It said it wasnt 
responsible for the sale of the policy as this was done via Egg Banking Plc, which was a tied 
agent company at the time. It could see that Mr and Mr S completed their application online, 
but Prudential had no part in that application. 
It also said it wrote out to Mr and Mr S asking for additional information, and then it 
confirmed it had accepted the application. It said Mr and Mr S were sent information telling 
them how they could cancel the policy if theyd changed their mind along with an illustration 
explaining how a decreasing term assurance policy worked. So Prudential didnt agree it had 
misled Mr and Mr S, nor had it failed to treat them fairly when processing their application. 
On 19 September 2019, Mr and Mr S cancelled their policy, by sending a letter to Prudential. 
They then referred their complaint to this service. 
They said their complaint relates to two main points of concern and seven secondary issues. 
The two main issues were 1) though theyd instigated the application process in 2005, this 
was never properly set up pending a medical report for each of them and Prudential should 
not have finalised it without their consent and 2) Prudential has sent them no 
correspondence from 2005 to 2019 which they feel this is irresponsible and unreasonable.
Mr and Mr S said it was noteworthy that Prudential hadnt even addressed the first point in 
its final response letter to the complaint. In terms of the second aspect, they said their current mortgage was only £60,000 so the policy (which had a sum assured of 
approximately £186,000 at the time of cancellation) had left them grossly over-insured. If at 
any point Prudential had contacted them about that, Mr and Mr S say they would have 
realised the error and taken steps to cancel the policy.
They also said their seven secondary issues were:
requesting their medical records on the basis they are a same-sex couple was 
unethical of Prudential and possibly discriminatory;
the medical records cannot realistically have been requested because the request 
letter was dated 4 October 2005 and by 11 October 2005 the policy had come into 
force  this shows Prudential went ahead and instituted the policy without proper 
care and authorisation;
following their civil partnership in 2006 they changed their names to Mr S and Mr S  
something Prudential was unaware of, but they had told all relevant companies about 
the change at the time  so this therefore supports the fact they were unaware of the 
policy;
because Prudential failed to contact them in almost 15 years, they believe this gave 
them vulnerable customer status in accordance with FCA guidance on consumer 
vulnerability;
the product is unreasonably mistitled as mortgage protection when no attempt has 
been made to keep track of the ongoing value of their mortgage over time by 
Prudential and when the policy they were sold has a sum assured that has no 
relation to their mortgage;
Prudential has told them that they supplied their basic information (their address, 
dates of birth and bank details), but this was information known to Egg and which 
could have been shared - so this is not evidence they entered into an agreement with 
Prudential, as it has claimed;
The Prudential case handler mentions a wine voucher incentive in the complaint 
outcome letter as a possible reason for their application via Egg but similarly to the 
insurance itself, they have no memory of receiving this voucher and theyre sure they 
didnt use it.
Finally, Mr and Mr S said Prudential also failed four of the FCAs treating customers fairly 
objectives relating to fair treatment, suitable products, clear information and communication, 
and acceptable service standards. 
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint, but he did not think it should 
succeed.
He noted that Prudential hadnt needed Mr or Mr Ss medical records once the application 
had been passed to an underwriter. And it had called them to explain the policy could go 
ahead without any medical reports. 
Further, he said though Mr and Mr S had recently taken out new mortgage lending, 
Prudential didnt advise them or make any recommendations about taking out term 
assurance. That had been a matter of their choosing, by applying online through Egg. 
Because the term assurance policy had the premiums and sum assured chosen from the 
outset with no changes, there was no reason for Prudential to contact Mr and Mr S. 
Finally, the investigator said he didnt think the product information was misleading and 
though the amount of the sum assured may have left Mr and Mr S over-insured, this wasnt 
Prudentials fault. Mr and Mr S said they didnt agree. They said Prudential ought to have contacted them 
through the life of the policy in order to determine if it was right for them and/or to tell them 
what their sum assured had decreased to. They said that because of the passage of time, 
they became more vulnerable as the policy went on. They remained of the view that theyd 
been treated unfairly and sold a product with a misleading description.
Mr and Mr S asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. Prudential didnt have any 
further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as our investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. 
When deciding complaints (in accordance with the rules of this service) I will determine the 
outcome by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint. In assessing what is fair and reasonable, Ill take into account relevant law, 
regulations, rules, guidance, and standards. So I am mindful of the points Mr and Mr S have 
made about the requirements of the FCA, both in treating customers fairly and in its code on 
vulnerable consumers. However, I do not consider Prudential to have acted contrary to any 
of those standards  and Ill explain why that is.
I understand that since more than 14 years have passed, Mr and Mr S arent able to recall 
with certainty what went on at the time of the sale of the policy. There are aspects of the 
sales process (because this was undertaken online with Egg) that Prudential will not be able 
to answer either  such as what became of the wine voucher incentive. 
However, I do not believe Prudential is (or should be) liable for that. Nor do I think it has 
failed to abide by any of the FCA principles Mr and Mr S have referred to. It did not 
determine if their policy was suitable for them; it was not the business that sold the policy to 
Mr and Mr S. It was marketed by Egg, and the application process was completed without 
any involvement from Prudential. 
On that basis, I do not agree that the policy is misleading or that it being entitled mortgage 
protection caused a detriment to Mr and Mr S by Prudential. The nature of term assurance 
policies on a decreasing term basis is that these are commonly used to provide protection 
for an outstanding mortgage balance should a policyholder pass away during the term. 
Taking out a form of life insurance alongside mortgage lending is generally considered a 
prudent form of financial planning. In advised sales, an adviser would generally look to start 
a sum assured at the same amount as an applicants mortgage liability so that the sum 
assured would broadly decrease in line with a capital repayment mortgage. The premium 
remains the same because it priced to account for the full term of the product, rather than 
policyholders having to pay significantly more from the outset. 
But Mr and Mr S didnt have any advice when they chose their policy. Prudential offered a 
product which is suitable to protect mortgages on a decreasing term basis. That Mr and Mr 
Ss sum assured was higher at the start than was required or that it has not decreased in line 
with their mortgage (because of overpayments for example) is not caused by Prudential and 
it has not acted unfairly or unreasonably by referring to its term assurance product as 
mortgage protection. Contrary to what has been suggested, the evidence does show Mr and Mr S made a direct 
application to Prudential, via Egg. Upon receipt of the application, it wrote to them on 4 
October 2005 asking for consent to access their medical records. I realise Mr and Mr S feel 
that this treated them in a detrimental way, but I cannot agree that is the case. Prudentials 
application process allows it to ask any applicant - irrespective of any protected 
characteristic  for access to their medical records.
The process of applying for insurance policies of a medical nature can involve access to GP 
reports or further medical assessments if needed upon underwriting by the insurer. That is 
because it is accepting the risk of insuring a person for a defined period and it needs to 
understand what impact any existing health condition or circumstances may have on the 
likelihood of a claim being paid and price the policy on that basis. That is how insurance 
policies are offered and this isnt an unfair step to take. Insurers are permitted to determine 
what level of risk is acceptable for the purposes of offering insurance.
In Mr and Mr Ss case, I have seen that Prudential sent each of them a letter saying it 
needed their consent to access their medical records. Those letters do indeed require action 
for the insurance to proceed, if Prudential needed to see the medical records. However, 
Prudential has also supplied case notes from the time showing that the underwriters 
confirmed the application could proceed without any further need to see medical records. 
There is also a file note of 7 October 2005 showing a call was undertaken with Mr S where 
Prudential explained that the policy could proceed, and during that call a date was chosen 
for the policy to go on risk. Since Mr and Mr S wanted cover from 1 October 2005, Prudential 
agreed to backdate the cover and for the first premium collection on 1 November 2005 it 
took a double payment, reverting to the agreed £27.26 payment thereafter. It then wrote to 
Mr and Mr S on 11 October 2005 to confirm what was agreed. That letter was correctly 
addressed.  
I believe that Mr and Mr S did likely know their policy had begun when it did, and at the time 
what they had applied for. Prudential sent them a copy of their application, the terms of the 
policy and cancelation rights  again, all of these were correctly addressed. Prudential did 
not do anything wrong by offering them insurance for an agreed price after receiving an 
application for the cover. 
I realise Mr and Mr S feel that Prudential is at fault for the fact they allowed the policy to 
continue when they now say they didnt want or need it in the first place. But Prudential didnt 
know that they had (at some point) changed their mind about the policy they applied for and 
wished to begin on 1 October 2005. It had reasonably processed the application, offered the 
policy promptly and told Mr and Mr S how they could cancel it if they wanted to. 
As the investigator explained, there hasnt been any further communication because the 
policy premiums were set in advance, and the policy literature gave Mr and Mr S a table of 
benefits showing how their policys sum assured reduced each year. 
I do understand that it would have been helpful for Prudential to write to Mr and Mr S 
periodically, and many insurers may do so annually for example. However, I dont believe in 
the circumstances of this case that compensation ought to be awarded on that basis. The 
terms and conditions of the policy do not require any step of this nature  and the contract of 
insurance sets out the responsibilities of the parties.
Even if I were to consider that Prudential ought to have reasonably reminded Mr and Mr S of 
their policys existence or the current sum assured, I do not accept the argument that Mr and 
Mr S would have taken a different course of action such that Prudential is at fault for them 
carrying on with the policy premiums longer than they wanted to. There is no objective evidence to show that they would have cancelled the policy any sooner than 2019.
The evidence available is that the policy was something Mr and Mr S wanted in 2005. They 
say they then forgot what theyd taken out, not noticing the premiums until 2019, by which 
time they felt over-insured with a policy which wasnt right for them  though that wasnt 
caused by any advice from Prudential.
I realise that Mr and Mr S changed their mind about holding life assurance in the intervening 
years, but this was a matter of personal preference for them. Prudential had told them from 
the outset how they could have cancelled the policy. And they were accountable for the 
payment of policy premiums. That they chose to review their finances in 2019 isnt 
something Prudential is responsible for. 
I note Mr and Mr Ss concerns about their vulnerability, and that the FCA defines a 
vulnerable consumer as someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially 
susceptible to detriment, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of 
care. But, havent seen any evidence to suggest that Prudential failed in its appropriate level 
of care towards Mr or Mr S which would disadvantage them on the grounds of a particular 
vulnerability.
It follows that I have not seen any reason why I believe this policy was mis-sold. Firstly, 
Prudential is not responsible for the sale. And I do not think that it has failed with the 
administration of the policy, particularly that I do not consider it is responsible by any failing 
or inaction for Mr and Mr S continuing to pay for life assurance that theyd since changed 
their mind about.   
Likewise, I do not find Prudential at fault for the inception of the policy. Mr and Mr S were 
aware of it, both by instigating the application process and thereafter by choosing the policy 
start date. And even if I did agree the policy shouldnt have come into force on 1 October 
2005 (which I do not), the redress for a mistake of that nature wouldnt be a refund of all the 
policy premiums. That is because Prudential didnt influence Mr and Mr Ss original 
requirement to apply for life assurance  if there was a change to that requirement, the onus 
was on Mr and Mr S to make Prudential aware of it. As it is, they had the benefit of life cover 
from 2005 to 2019 that would have paid a sum assured to the surviving partner had one of 
them passed away whilst the policy was in force.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, nor do I make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman