DRN-3306222
The complaint
Ms B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc hasnt refunded her payments that she sent to 
the wrong account.
What happened
 Ms B says she went online to find a travel agency and agreed to purchase flights from a 
company, Company A. She arranged to pay Company A in instalments. 
Ms B made the following payments by bank transfer to the original bank details provided to 
her:
 £200 20 July 2018
 £200 10 September 2018
 £200 9 October 2018
 £600 28 November 2018
Unfortunately, Ms B didnt read an email from Company A on 4 October 2018 asking her to 
make any remaining payments to a different account  here they provided new bank account 
details. After Ms B had made the final payment, she spoke to Company A and was informed 
that the account she had sent her funds to was under review and so it couldnt access the 
funds. They said that as Ms Bs funds had gone the wrong account, she would need to 
contact her bank and recover them herself.
Ms B contacted Barclays and explained the situation  she said she thought her payments 
had gone to a closed account. She asked Barclays to return her funds in the circumstances. 
Barclays let Ms B know that as the receiving account wasnt closed her funds didnt bounce 
back, rather they had been correctly applied to that account. 
Barclays attempted to recall Ms Bs funds and wrote to her explaining the reason the funds 
couldnt be returned was cannot process: account has been stopped.
When Ms B complained, Barclays said it had done all it could to recover her funds.
Ms B complained to our service and the investigator didnt uphold her complaint. They said 
the payments were made in line with Ms Bs instructions and that Barclays had tried to recall 
they payments when Ms B requested this.
Ms B didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint for similar reasons.
Ms B hasnt disputed making the payments and so Ill focus my findings on what happened 
once Ms B reported to Barclays that she wanted to recall the funds. However, I think its 
important to note that the payments were executed correctly in line with Ms Bs instructions. 
They also appear to have been successfully applied to the correct account - this is the case 
even if Company A had limited access to that account at the time.
When Ms B explained to Barclays that she had made the payments to the wrong account by 
accident, it would not have been able to simply return the funds. Barclays put through a 
request for the funds to be returned and normally it would then come down to whether the 
receiving bank returned the funds. 
As the account the funds were sent to was also an account held with Barclays, for clarity, I 
am only considering Barclays role within the scope of its relationship with Ms B as part of 
this complaint. This means Ive looked at how it sent the funds and attempted to recover the 
funds for Ms B as her provider. I cant consider the steps Barclays took when acting in its 
capacity as the receiving bank as part of this complaint.
While I appreciate that Ms B has lost out financially, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly 
here. In the circumstances I think Barclays took reasonable steps to try to recover Ms Bs 
funds for her and so I dont think it would be fair to require it to reimburse her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman