DRN-3220487
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) credited his bank account 
with significantly less funds than he expected when an international transfer was returned by 
the beneficiary bank.
What happened
On 7 June 2021, Mr C sent a payment of €1,000 at a rate of 1.11830800 which amounted to 
£894.21. The beneficiary bank returned this payment on 9 June 2021. Mr C complained that 
his account was credited with £841.61 which was £52.60 short of the amount it cost him to 
send the funds. 
First Direct explained that theyd converted the €1,000 using an exchange rate of 
1.18820477. And the difference was due to the buying and selling rates. They didnt agree 
theyd made an error but offered Mr C £20 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr C queried this again and he was told by First Direct that there may have been 
intermediary charges before the payment was returned to them. They said they werent 
aware of which intermediary bank was used and what the charges were. 
Unhappy with this explanation, Mr C referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
said that First Direct hadnt made an error when crediting funds back into his account. But 
she agreed they gave him misleading information over the phone and there was an error in 
the final response letter. But she didnt recommend First Direct take any action. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs account explains: 
If a payment is returned to us or were unable to make it for any reason, well refund it using 
the first direct Exchange Rate at the time. If the exchange rate at the time of refund is 
different to when the payment was made, the amount we pay back will be different to the 
amount we originally took from your account
Based on this, I think First Direct reasonably made Mr C aware that if his payment was 
returned, he may receive less that the amount originally taken from his account.
Having reviewed the transaction details for both the payment sent and payment received, Im 
satisfied the difference in amounts was as a result of the exchange rates. Ill explain why.
When Mr C instructed First Direct to transfer €1,000 from his account, the exchange rate 
applied to his transaction was 1.11830800. Therefore, it cost him £894.21. And when the 
beneficiary bank returned €1,000 to his account, the exchange rate applied to the 
transaction was 1.18820477. This means Mr C was due a credit of £841.61 to his account.
First Direct sent Mr C a letter on 9 June 2021 to confirm that €1,000 was received into his 
account, and after applying the exchange rate of 1.18820477, the amount credited to his 
account was £841.61.
Therefore, the shortfall of £52.60 here was caused due to the difference in exchange rates 
when sending and receiving money in a foreign currency.
I appreciate Mr C feels that there was no deposit and separate transfer of funds as €1,000 
never entered the beneficiary account. However, this isnt the case. When Mr C made the 
transfer, First Direct had already exchanged £894.21 to send €1,000 to the recipient. 
And when €1,000 were returned by the beneficiary bank, First Direct had to exchange this 
again into pounds so that it could be credited into his account. This meant he received 
£52.60 less than hed sent. So, Im satisfied that First Direct have acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
That said, I think First Direct handled Mr Cs query poorly. I say this because Mr C was given 
incorrect information on 14 June 2021. He was told that there may have been intermediary 
charges. 
I think this was unhelpful since it was clear from the letter of 9 June 2021 that First Direct 
had received €1,000 from the beneficiary bank and Mr C pointed this out a few times during 
the phone call. But I dont agree First Direct lied in an attempt to mislead Mr C. 
It seems more likely that the adviser made a mistake. I also think the typographic error in the 
final response letter quoting the incorrect buyback exchange rate wouldve added to the 
confusion.
Having considered the impact on Mr C, I agree he was caused unnecessary frustration and 
annoyance. But Ive also taken into account that First Direct had sent Mr C a letter informing 
him of the amount received, exchange rate and amount credited on 9 June 2021. 
First Direct had also correctly explained to Mr C that the discrepancy was due to the 
difference in exchange rates during two previous phone calls also on 9 June 2021. This was 
followed up in their final response letter too. While I agree First Direct shouldve better handled Mr Cs call of 14 June 2021, I think the 
payment of £20 offered by First Direct fairly compensates him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
I cant fairly say that the impact on Mr C was significant enough to warrant further 
compensation. So, I wont be asking First Direct to do anything else to resolve this 
complaint. 
I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope he feels reassured that First 
Direct have correctly credited the funds into his account now someone independent has 
reviewed his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as 
First Direct) should pay Mr C £20, if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman