DRN-2281637
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with his let property insurer Fairmead Insurance Limited as it has declined 
his claim for damage to the flat roof of a tenanted property he owns.
What happened
Mr S was notified in November 2019 by the managing agents for his property that a leak had 
occurred in the roof which covers the kitchen and bathroom. On 12 November 2019 he 
contacted Fairmead. Mr S told it his builder said the damage had been caused by heavy 
rain. It asked for details including a cause of damage report. But when Fairmead became 
aware that it was a flat roof in question, it noted its records did not include any detail of a flat 
roof at the property. It referred the matter to its underwriting team. 
On 10 December 2019 Fairmead decided that it would still have offered cover to Mr S if it 
had known about the flat roof, and at the same premium. However, it said it would have 
added an endorsement to the policy. It asked Mr S for evidence to show hed likely complied 
with that endorsement. Mr S provided further evidence and on 4 January 2020 Fairmead 
said it accepted the endorsement had been complied with. But it wasnt convinced it had 
liability for the damage at this time and suggested to Mr S that he speak to the previous 
contractors which had worked on the roof and provided a guarantee for its work.
Mr S told Fairmead hed tried that contractor but it was out of business. On 
Friday 10 January 2020 Fairmead told Mr S that it wanted to come out and look at the roof. 
Mr S said he had contractors booked to start the work that weekend. Fairmead said all it 
could advise in that instance was that liability had not been accepted and Mr S should take 
plenty of photos for it to consider, along with any reports and invoices. This was confirmed in 
an email sent the same day.
In February Mr S sent some further evidence to Fairmead, which included photos of the 
finished work. Fairmead then declined the claim for the external damage to the property  it 
felt the most likely reason for the roofs failure was poor workmanship (given it had been 
worked on only 4 years ago and that work was still under guarantee). But it said it would 
consider further evidence if Mr S had any, including in respect of the internal damage. Mr S 
was unhappy, he felt Fairmead should have inspected the property before he did the work  
with unhappy tenants and Fairmead not dealing with the matter, hed had no choice but to do 
the repairs. He felt Fairmead should cover his outlay and complained to us.
Our investigator felt that Fairmead had acted fairly and reasonably. She thought that the 
claim delays were unavoidable and that it wasnt clear that one instance of heavy rain had 
likely been the dominant cause of the damage to the roof. 
Mr S was unhappy. He felt hed done everything right, including trying to get Fairmead to 
come out from the start, but it had let him down. The complaint was passed to me for a 
decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr S feels let down by Fairmead  he has cover on his policy for damage 
which is caused either by a storm or accidentally. But it isnt unusual for an insurer to ask for 
photos and estimates for repair in the first instance, rather than immediately arranging to 
attend to assess damage. Which is what Fairmead did here. Following on from that the 
concern arose over what Fairmead had been told about the flat roof when the policy was 
arranged. Whilst I know Mr S recalls telling his broker about the roof, the detail Fairmead 
held about the property showed it had been told there was no flat roof. It wasnt 
unreasonable for Fairmead to want to look into this, even though this meant a delay in 
progressing the claim. 
Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for Fairmead to ask to assess the roof when it did, 
even though Mr S might have liked it to attend earlier. I can understand that he was under 
pressure to complete the repairs  but it was also up to him to evidence that he had a loss 
covered by the policy. I think Fairmead was always clear with him about its position on this 
claim and what it would need to consider upholding it. 
I understand Mr Ss frustration  he believes the roof was fit for purpose  and Fairmead has 
no clear evidence it wasnt. However, as I said above, Mr S has to show that he has suffered 
a loss most likely covered by the policy. He has provided a photo of the damaged flat roof  
taken in the dark  and a report/invoice from his building contractor which says the damage 
was caused by heavy rain ponding on the roof and causing it to sag. Fairmeads position is 
that flat roofs, which are fit for purpose, are not commonly damaged by heavy rain. I bear in 
mind that flat roofs which are fit for purpose are usually installed with a fall to allow water to 
run off rather than ponding and are usually capable of supporting weight. 
Mr S did provide Fairmead with photos after the work was completed. But these show the 
completed work  rather than the work as it progressed. That said, I note that Fairmead did 
agree it would re-consider its position, also taking into account the internal damage, if further 
evidence was provided. I think thats reasonable of it.
Given everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr S has either shown that his roof was 
most likely damaged by heavy rain, or given me cause to think it was unfair for Fairmead to 
think it had most likely suffered due to poor workmanship related to its installation. Overall, 
Im not persuaded that Fairmeads position is an unreasonable one, Im not minded to make 
it do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Fairmead Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman