DRN-2619282
The complaint
Mrs M complains that esure Insurance Limited provided poor service and caused her 
financial loss after she made a windscreen claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs M contacted esures agent on 23 December 2019 and was advised that a new 
windscreen would be fitted on 31 December 2019. The day before the fitting the appointment 
was cancelled, as the glass wasnt available. Mrs M had to chase esures agent for updates 
as she wasnt advised when the glass would be received. On 9 January 2020 the agent 
advised her of the glasss estimated arrival date and on 22 January 2020 the windscreen 
was replaced. In the meantime, as Mrs M needed a car for work, and her own car wasnt 
secure, she hired one from 2 January 2020 onwards. She thought esure should pay for it. 
esures agent offered Mrs M £67.60 compensation for distress and inconvenience for the 
frustration shed faced from its poor contact, and the cost of calls shed made to it. Later on, 
esure paid £100 into Mrs Cs account to cover the policy excess that was payable. Mrs C 
wasnt happy with the level of compensation, so she complained to us.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Ms complaint. He said esures agent didnt contact 
the supplier to enquire about the glasss estimated date of delivery until 8 January 2020 and 
hadnt updated Mrs M. He said hed seen nothing to show when the glass was ordered. He 
also said that although the glass may not have arrived any sooner if the agent had queried it 
earlier, he thought it should have done so.
The investigator thought £67.60 was a reasonable offer from esures agent. He noted that 
esure had paid Mrs M £100 for the policy excess, but he said shed had to pay it to the agent 
again when the windscreen was fitted, so she was no better off. He also noted that esure 
had told Mrs M it would consider any financial loss shed faced  and shed provided two 
invoices for car hire to it. He thought esure should only refund the first period of hire 
(£259.80, covering 2 January 2020 to 9 January 2020) as on the latter date the agent had 
updated her with the estimated delivery date and the fitting date. 
 
esure said the investigator hadnt taken into account the £100 refund it had made for the 
policy excess. It pointed out that although Mrs C had paid the policy excess twice, its agent 
had refunded it the first time and esure had done so the second time.
esure also said as the investigator thought it should pay for part of the hire due to the delay 
in getting the glass, it had asked its agent to clarify the ordering process. The agent said the 
stock was ordered automatically on its system when a job was created. As the glass didnt 
arrive as expected, it remained on backorder. But rather than waiting for a normal delivery, 
the agent had placed a special order with an external supplier on 8 January 2020 at its own 
cost. esure thought the overall compensation of £167.60 was fair to make up for its agents 
poor communication.
The investigator said Mrs M wasnt given any of the new information esure had provided, 
and its agent should have ensured it updated her regularly. He didnt agree that shed been 
compensated £167.60, as the policy excess was taken twice. esure repeated that Mrs M 
wasnt out of pocket in terms of the excess. It said the service from its agent wasnt as 
expected - but there were always going to be delays when the glass wasnt available, and 
these were out of its control. esure asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
According to the notes made by the agent at the time, Mrs M was told on 30 December 2019 
that as there was no glass available, it was now on backorder, and that shed be called when 
the agent had an estimated time of arrival for it. Mrs M called later that day to say she 
wanted to cancel the job but then called again on 31 December 2019 to say it shouldnt be 
cancelled. It seems another firm Mrs M had contacted told her it would also have to order the 
glass. Theres nothing in the notes to show that the backorder was cancelled  in fact a note 
on the file on that date says the task was with the central purchasing team. 
Im not sure what sort of update could have been provided between 31 December 2019 and 
6 January 2020, when Mrs M called for an update, as nothing happened between those 
dates. But the agent could have called Mrs M to say so, as that would have meant she 
wouldnt have had to chase it for an update. And the order could have been queried by it 
before 8 January 2020  although theres no reason to assume that the glass would have 
arrived any earlier had that been done, given that there was a supply problem.
In my opinion, esures agent could have done more to explain to Mrs M the way its system 
operated. Theres a note on its file on 7 January 2020 that says the process was explained 
to her. If so, it seems the explanation wasnt clear enough. But the basic problem was that 
the supplier wasnt able to provide the glass, and the agent had no control over that. In my 
opinion, esures agent tried to limit Mrs Ms inconvenience by departing from its usual 
arrangement on 9 January 2020 and placing an order with a different supplier. That meant 
the job was completed on 22 January 2020. Presumably, had the agent waited for the 
original order, it would have been later than that. 
I dont think esure should be required to pay part of the cost of Mrs Ms car hire. I dont think 
shes shown that it was the fault of esures agent that the glass couldnt be supplied earlier. 
Theres nothing to show that it wasnt ordered initially, or that the order was cancelled and 
not reinstated. The agent was only made aware of the problem on 30 December 2019. And 
even when it went outside its usual ordering process (as a gesture of goodwill) it still took 12 
days after that for the glass to arrive. Theres nothing to show that Mrs M would have had 
the windscreen fitted any sooner had she ordered the glass through another firm. 
I think the £67.60 esures agent offered Mrs M was a reasonable sum to compensate her for 
its poor communication. The file notes show that she paid the policy excess twice. But 
esures agent refunded it the first time on 1 January 2020. esure has shown that it paid £100 
into Mrs Ms account on 11 January 2020. That means although Mrs M paid the excess for 
the second time when the work was completed, the sum was covered by esure. Mrs M was 
required to pay £100 excess, in line with the terms of the policy. So I think by paying that 
sum into her account, esure added to the compensation offered by its agent. 
Mrs M was hugely inconvenienced by not having the windscreen repaired quickly - and she 
had no option but to hire a car for work. But based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think 
esures agent was to blame for that. I think esure should only have to pay Mrs M the £67.60 
for inconvenience and calls its agent offered, to bring the total compensation to £167.60. I 
think that would be a fair and reasonable way to deal with this complaint. I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. esure said the proposed 
compensation would be paid. Mrs M accepted the decision, but she still thought esures 
agent was at fault. She said she thought another supplier should have been found earlier. 
She said she was told on 7 January 2020 that there didnt appear to be an order, and in her 
view, one was only placed when she complained. Mrs M said she didnt have the glass 
replaced locally in December 2019, as shed have had to pay for it - and esure may then 
only have put £100 towards the cost. She said it was having to pay for the second part of the 
car hire to which she objected.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mrs M has accepted my decision, Id like to respond to some of her comments.
The file notes provided by esures agent show that the glass was first ordered by it on 
30 December 2019 (as it found there was none in stock). I understand why Mrs M 
may find that hard to believe, but I think theres evidence of it.
The notes also show that when Mrs M called the agent to reinstate the cancelled job 
on 31 December 2019, she said the other firm shed asked to do the work had told 
her two things: that the cost may not be covered by esure and that the other firm 
would also have to order the glass. So I still think Mrs M may not have been able to 
get the work done any earlier elsewhere. 
The notes show that on 7 January 2020 Mrs M queried whether an order had been 
placed  and that her query led to the initial order being checked (not placed) the 
next day. As a result of the check, a new order was then placed with a new supplier.
Im still of the view that esure and its agent could have handled the claim better, but in my 
opinion, paying Mrs M a further £67.60 is a reasonable way to deal with her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay 
her a further £67.60 for distress and inconvenience (as proposed by its agent) making the 
total sum in compensation £167.60.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman