DRN-2699116
The complaint
Mrs J has complained about an international payment made through TSB Bank plcs internet
banking.  
What happened
Mrs J attempted to make an international payment through TSBs internet banking in pounds
sterling for a family member. After the beneficiary didnt receive the funds Mrs J contacted
TSB who told her there were no notes to say it had been stopped or returned but they could
put a trace on the payment. They said there was no 5 digit transit number entered on the
transaction which would be needed for payments to Canada. Mrs J said she did not have
one of these but did say she had a nine digit routing code.
TSB tried to add this onto the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication
(SWIFT) message but werent successful. The payment had been returned the day before
but this information wasnt available to the staff who were trying to help Mrs J. As the
payment had been returned there would have been no way the outcome of the calls resulting
in the payment being successful. This resulted in a loss of nearly £1,500 for Mrs J when the
payment had been converted back to pounds sterling.
Mrs J complained to TSB as she said their system did not allow her to input all of the
required information. She wanted TSB to refund her losses on the transaction.
TSB said that it was Mrs Js responsibility to obtain all of the information required from the
beneficiary to ensure the payment was made and did not uphold her complaint so Mrs J
brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Js complaint. She said the rejected SWIFT message showed
there was missing information but Mrs J had provided this information initially. TSB wanted
the matter to be referred to an Ombudsman as they said there is a free format field where
Mrs J could have put the routing code and they will send us a payment journey of what Mrs J
should have input and in what fields.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the individual circumstances of this complaint are quite unique. There has been a lot
of information provided to Mrs J and our service which has been conflicting. That said, the
parties seem to be generally agreed that the issue here is that Mrs J didnt provide a routing
code and it was that which meant her payment was returned.
From looking at the evidence here, I think thats the case too. The relevant SWIFT message
shows the reason the payment was returned as states insufficient info full ben addr 12 digit
act nbr and branch strt city required. Mrs J had input this information, so I looked at the
technical reasons why the payment could have been blocked.
When a customer enters information onto an online form, each piece of information from a
field (box) correlates to a number on a SWIFT message. The information from the rejected
payment shows two block codes, 108 and 119.
Block 108: If the sender has not defined the message user reference in field 108, then the
system uses the transaction reference number is in field 20 or 20C. In field 20 of the SWIFT
message this is the senders reference and block 119 is Indicates that FIN validates the
message according to straight through processing principles. FIN enables financial
institutions to exchange structured messages securely and reliably. As the payment was
blocked for these reasons it appears that the issue may have been the failure to include the
routing code/transit number originally.
So what Ive had to think about here is whether TSB can fairly be held responsible for that.
TSB says that Mrs J had the routing code at the time of making the payment and shouldve
been aware that she needed to provide it when making the payment. Mrs J says it wasnt
clear that she needed to provide this.
Ive thought about what Mrs J has said and also looked at the information TSB has provided.
TSB told our investigator they would arrange for the digital payments team to show the exact
information Mrs J should have input. This information would have shown whether the field
marked with an example of invoice would have been the field to enter this information.
TSB sent screenshots with what Mrs J should have done, but they completed the same
information as what Mrs J originally did. Had a member of the payments team processed this
information they too would have had the rejected payment like Mrs J did.
I informed TSB that they had entered the same details as Mrs J had input and gave them
another opportunity to show me where Mrs J should have put the routing code but TSB said
Unfortunately, we are unable to provide you with any further screenshots to those we have
already sent.
So Ive relied on the information I have been sent by TSB here. In the screenshot of the
internet banking screen Mrs J is likely to have seen, there is a box that says - payment
reference for recipient: (e.g. invoice number 000234) (optional). This appears to be a free
type field. When our investigator spoke to a payments manager from TSB, they said Mrs J
would be able to include the routing code into a free type box. This appears to be the only
free type box.
If the free type box showing the example of invoice was the field to enter this information,
this would map over to field 70 of the SWIFT message. It appears that Mrs J put in this field
sending money home to family. I think it is reasonable that this would be input for a field
which says payment reference for recipient.
But TSB says that Mrs J shouldve known to put the routing code in this box. I dont think its
fair to say that it wouldve been immediately apparent to Mrs J that she needed to do that
here. The example given for why this box is needed for a customer gives the example of an
invoice number and says that the reference is for the recipient. So by putting what she did
here, I think Mrs J wouldve thought shed provided the information she needed to, where
that information was a reference for the family member she was paying. The suggestion
from how this box is explained to a customer is that this box is for a single piece of
information as a reference, rather than a number of pieces.
So when Mrs J entered that information  there was nowhere else that was obvious for her
to enter the routing code. So Ive thought about whether there was any other reason that she
shouldve known to provide this, or perhaps question where to put it. But I dont think therewas. The only specific mention of a routing code is on the FAQ page and that just explains
what a routing code is. It doesnt explain when it will be needed, or where a customer should
provide this on the online form if they have it. So I can see why she didnt think this was
needed and why she thought that shed done all she could.
TSB has explained that a routing number isnt always needed for a transaction, which could
be one reason its not asked for as a standard part of the process. I can understand that.
But, by the same token, this also means that sometimes a routing code will be needed, as
was the case here. Mrs J has also shown us that when she makes similar payments through
other businesses, they specifically ask for the routing number, whereas TSB doesnt. Its not
my role to say that TSB needs to change its systems in light of what another business does.
But in considering the individual circumstances here, this is another reason that I think it was
reasonable for Mrs J not to provide the routing code, as she wouldve thought that if it was
needed, then TSB wouldve asked for it in light of her previous experiences elsewhere.
I realise TSB has concerns about the impact of a decision like this more widely. Its not for
me to criticise its systems or processes  ultimately its entitled to decide on these as a
business. But, I do need to think about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of
a complaint. In doing so, there will be times that a strict application of a process, or an
established system working as it should, will result in an unfair outcome for a customer in the
individual circumstances of a dispute.
In my view thats whats happened here. And its for these reasons that I think that TSB
should take steps to put things right here and pay Mrs J the exchange rate loss she incurred
as a result of this, along with 8% interest for the time shes been without this money.
I also think that, as Mrs J has done what she could have here in making this payment, that
shes clearly been confused, frustrated and inconvenienced by this matter. So I think TSB
should compensate her for that. I think £250 is fair to reflect the impact this had.
In deciding whats fair, Ive also looked at TSBs handling of the situation after Mrs J reported
it to them. There was some confusion over whether she had entered information for an
intermediary bank or the actual bank of the beneficiary.
Its clear the call handlers werent familiar with the process of international payments but I do
think they tried to assist Mrs J as much as possible, were very pleasant and rang through to
the payments team to get further assistance. The payments team informed the call handlers
that Mrs J should have had a five digit transit code as they said payments to Canada require
this but Mrs J didnt have this. Instead she had a 9 digit routing code. But, as previously
mentioned, the outcome of these calls would have made no difference to the payment as it
had already been returned by this point. So I think TSB handled the situation after the
payment fairly, so I dont think it needs to do anything in this respect.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mrs J had no further comments to add, but TSB responded with further comments. 
In summary they said the payment was returned because Mrs J hadnt provided the correct 
information initially and not because there was missing information. They feel it is a very cut 
and dry case in their eyes and while Mrs J mightnt be sure about the information she 
needed to input, she didnt contact TSB for assistance until the payment was returned. TSB 
also said it doesnt feel like an individual case that I had eluded to in my provisional decision 
and they cant alter their Digital Platform to specifically detail information related to country 
requirements.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought in great detail about what TSB has said in response to my provisional decision. 
Its clear that they view this being a very clear cut case. But having thought about their 
comments and after reviewing all of the evidence here again, I still think that the fair outcome 
here is the one I suggested in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Theres been several points during this investigation that incorrect information has been 
given to either Mrs J or our service. For example, weve been told that the initial payment 
may be amended after it had been sent and weve received conflicting information of why the 
payment was returned (in some instances it was said it was because of incorrect 
information, in other instances it was due to a missing routing number). TSB have also said 
they would send us screenshots of what Mrs J shouldve entered into the screens but 
actually TSB sent our service information that only showed what Mrs J actually input. 
When this was pointed out to TSB and another opportunity was given to them to provide us 
with the completed screenshots of what Mrs J shouldve input, TSB said they were unable to 
provide me with further screenshots. So while I realise that TSB dont see it this way, I dont 
think this is a straightforward matter and I think it ultimately comes down to the very 
individual circumstances here.
TSB have reiterated that the payment was returned because Mrs J input incorrect 
information and not because information was missing. But thats not what the evidence Ive 
seen shows. While Mrs J initially thought she may have given incorrect information she has 
since confirmed the details were correct in an email to our investigator. The information and 
evidence around this has been inconsistent in terms of whats been provided and said by 
TSB. Having considered everything here Im satisfied that its more likely than not that she 
did input the details correctly. So based on all of the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that, on 
balance, the main issue here was the missing routing number.
Ive listened again to the phone call that our investigator had with TSBs payment manager 
and the payment manager doesnt say incorrect information was given. Instead, he focuses 
on the routing code being missing. He simply explains that the routing number shouldve 
been entered in the free type field, which is also what I believe, on balance, is the reason the 
payment failed - as all of the other information Mrs J provided was mirrored by TSB when 
they sent us their screenshots for how Mrs J shouldve processed a successful payment.
TSB say that Mrs J shouldve contacted them if she was unsure what information to enter 
into their system and I think thats generally a fair expectation of a customer. But, in the 
circumstances here - Mrs J thought she had all the information she needed to successfully 
make the payment but couldnt find anywhere appropriate to enter the routing code.
In regards to TSBs comments relating to their digital platform more widely, I can only 
reiterate what I explained in my provisional decision - its not for me to criticise TSBs 
systems or processes  ultimately theyre entitled to decide on these as a business. But, I 
have to think about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint. In 
doing so, there will be times that a strict application of a process, or an established system 
working as it should, will result in an unfair outcome for a customer in the individual 
circumstances of a dispute. I remain of the opinion that this is whats happened here for the 
reasons Ive already given.
In summary, TSBs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know TSB will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope they understand my reasons.Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that TSB pay Mrs J the exchange rate loss she incurred, 
along with 8% interest for the time shes been without this money.
I also think that, as Mrs J has done what she could have here in making this payment, that
shes clearly been confused, frustrated and inconvenienced by this matter. So I think TSB
should compensate her for that. I think £250 is fair to reflect the impact this had.
 
My final decision
TSB Bank Plc should pay Mrs J £1,476 for the loss in exchange rate when the payment was 
returned. 8% should be added to this amount from the date the funds were returned to Mrs J 
to the date TSB pay this sum. Lastly, TSB Bank plc should pay Mrs J £250 as a reflection of 
the trouble and upset caused by their failure to resolve this earlier.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman