DRN-3283366
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complains that Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) unfairly declined a 
claim following a sulphate attack.
The estate is being represented in this case by its joint executors, whom Ill refer to as 
Mr and Mrs W. 
All references to Soteria in this decision include its appointed agents.
What happened
A subsidence claim was made in 2019 after it was identified that there had been some 
structural movement to the property owned by the late Mr C. Investigations were carried out 
and the cause of the subsidence was said to be defective drains, which were then repaired. 
In 2020, it was discovered that the downstairs concrete floor was buckling. A survey was 
carried out and it was thought that the cause was a sulphate attack. Mr and Mrs W were told 
that it was possible the sulphate attack and buckling of the floor were related to the leaking 
drains, as a source of water would need to be present for a sulphate attack to occur.
Mr and Mrs W had their own survey carried out and this concluded that the excessive water 
couldve been caused by faulty drains. Loss adjusters carried out an inspection in 2021 and 
Mr and Mrs W say the claim was accepted initially, but in May 2021 the insurer declined the 
claim, saying sulphate attack was considered a gradual cause and there was no cover 
available for this.
The insurer also said itd considered the claim under the previous subsidence claim, but that 
there were exclusions relating to damage arising from chemicals and damage to solid floors 
caused by infill materials settling, swelling or shrinking.
Mr and Mrs W complained, saying the defective drains were most likely the cause of the 
damage. But the insurer maintained its position, saying there wasnt enough clear evidence 
of this without further surveys being carried out. At this point the property was undergoing 
repairs, arranged by Mr and Mrs W, as the house was being sold.
Because Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with the insurers response, they referred their 
complaint to this service. Our investigator considered the issues and ultimately concluded 
that Soteria hadnt acted unfairly. As Mr and Mrs W disagreed with our investigators opinion, 
the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In declining the claim, Soteria relied on its experts reports. These mentioned that it was 
possible that the damage had been caused by the leaking drains in 2019, because the 
escape of water from the leaking drains couldnt be ruled out as a cause. But Soteria said 
there were other possible causes for the damage that might not be linked to the leaking 
drains and that there were exclusions in the policy which meant the claim couldnt be 
accepted.
When making a claim, it's for the policyholder to show that an insured peril has occurred, 
and if theyre able to do so, its then for the insurer to show that a valid exclusion applies, if 
the claim is to be declined. Ive looked carefully at the policy wording, and the exclusions 
Soteria has referred to do exist. But I need to be satisfied theyve been applied fairly. But 
first, I need to be satisfied that Mr and Mrs W have shown that an insured peril has indeed 
occurred here. Otherwise theres no cover for the event thats taken place, even if it has 
caused damage.
From what I can see, theres no cover in the policy for sulphate attack. But Ive considered 
whether Mr and Mrs W have shown that another insured peril has occurred. Mr and Mrs W 
have said that the cause of the sulphate attack was the leaking drains from 2019. But 
theyve provided a report which doesnt definitively conclude this  and only points to this as 
being one possibility, so Im not persuaded that the source of the moisture has been 
established. And if the cause hasnt been established, Mr and Mrs W have not yet been able 
to show that an insured peril has occurred. Without a confirmed link between the sulphate 
attack and the leaking drains, I dont consider Soteria has acted unfairly by declining the 
claim under the subsidence part of the policy.
In my view, from considering all the evidence, there are other possible causes which 
couldve led to the sulphate attack which arent linked to the subsidence. These include the 
ground water being slightly higher in the relevant area, which wouldve led to the sulphate 
attack happening gradually over time  something which wouldnt be covered by the policy 
as theres an exclusion for gradually operating causes, or a possible lack of damp proof 
membrane, which would be a workmanship issue and therefore also wouldnt be covered by 
the policy due to the common exclusion for poor workmanship.
Various discussions have taken place about the location of the sulphate attack, in relation to 
the location of the leaking drains. But I dont think these discussions are relevant, because 
the evidence still does not conclude that the leaking drains were the cause of the attack, and 
I cannot accept Mr and Mrs Ws comments without evidence to support them. Mr and Mrs W 
have mentioned theres a video recording available of the water ingress at the property. But 
Ive not requested this and dont consider I need to see it, in order to reach a decision about 
this complaint. This is because the video will show that there was indeed water ingress, but it 
wont tell me the cause of it. 
Because I dont consider Soteria has declined the claim unfairly, it doesnt need to reimburse 
the estate of Mr C for the reduction in the sale price of the property. This isnt something 
insurance policies are usually designed to cover. And theres no evidence that Soterias 
handling of the claim was directly responsible for the reduction in the sale price. That 
decision was made by the estate of Mr C.
Ive seen the comprehensive responses and information provided by Mr and Mrs W, and Ive 
considered everything theyve said carefully, even if Ive not commented on every point 
theyve made here. But Im afraid those points dont change my view of this complaint  as 
the crux of the complaint in my opinion is whether Mr and Mrs W have been able to provide 
adequate confirmation, with supporting evidence, that the sulphate attack occurred as a 
result of an insured peril. And Im afraid I dont think they have.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, but for the reasons Ive given above, I wont be requiring Soteria to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman