DRN-2312679
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) delayed his withdrawal 
request. 
What happened
Mr W had £647.85 invested with NS&I. On 1 April 2020, he sent a cheque for £117.78 to add 
to his investment. This was received and cashed by NS&I the next day. However given this 
was only shortly after the national lockdown was implemented by the UK Government in 
response to the covid-19 pandemic, there were delays in crediting this amount to his 
account. At that time, NS&I were prioritising withdrawals rather than contributions, so the 
money didnt get credited to the account until 23 April. 
On 7 April, Mr W sent a withdrawal request for £764.63. This was set to leave him with £1 in 
his account had his contribution have been credited. NS&I say they received this request on 
14 April and it was actioned the next day. However, as Mr Ws additional contribution wasnt 
yet showing on his account, a letter was sent to let him know there were insufficient funds to 
support the withdrawal request.
Mr W called NS&I on 20 April to query this  he explained the situation but as the call 
handler said they couldnt help, he asked to speak to a supervisor. She took additional 
details and agreed to email the relevant department to help things along and ensure Mr W 
wouldnt have to make another withdrawal request in due course.
On 27 April, Mr W called again. This time he wanted to make a complaint about the delays. 
Although he said he understood why NS&I were prioritising withdrawals, he felt things had 
gone wrong here given his money had left his bank account so NS&I certainly had it. He 
thought the withdrawal priority had aggravated his situation, so asked for compensation and 
his complaint was logged.
Mr Ws withdrawal was processed on 4 May. NS&I issued their response to his complaint on 
4 June  they explained the lockdown had an impact on their usual operations as they had 
smaller teams, but felt theyd done all they could in this instance. Remaining unhappy, Mr W 
brought the complaint to our service. He said he understood the impact of the pandemic 
caused delays  thats why he delayed sending the withdrawal request  but ultimately felt 
NS&I were using the pandemic to cover up inefficiencies.
One of our investigators had a look at what had happened but didnt agree NS&I had done 
anything wrong. He recognised that Mr Ws requests were made shortly after the national 
lockdown was implemented and rather like a lot of other businesses, NS&Is usual 
operations were affected when staff began working from home. He explained how NS&I 
were working at the time and looked into whether they couldve given more information over 
the phone, but ultimately understood it wouldnt have been possible given how their systems 
worked. So given the wider circumstances, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr W remained unhappy. He thought NS&I ought to have given him accurate information 
regarding the possible deposit and withdrawal dates. Our investigator remained of the view 
that NS&I had explained things clearly on the calls, so as an agreement wasnt reached the 
case was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ws wider concerns about how NS&I operate and whether their 
decision to prioritise withdrawals was indeed the right thing to do, I must emphasise that our 
service isnt NS&Is regulator  we arent able to tell them what their processes ought to be 
or how they ought to run their business. Instead, I must consider the specifics of what 
happened in his case and decide if mistakes or errors were made that ought to be put right. 
Despite that, I must say I do understand why NS&I took the approach they did in dealing with 
withdrawal requests as a priority  I expect a number of customers might have needed to 
access their money during what was, and continues to be, a very challenging time both 
economically and personally. Prioritising a withdrawal over a contribution was 
understandable as the former may have been needed urgently by someone struggling 
financially, while the latter could be handled later with less potential for negative impact.
I make this point because in Mr Ws calls with NS&I, he said he understood their rationale for 
working in this way and what impact the pandemic was having. But when he called our 
service, he seemed to suggest his feelings had changed and that perhaps the pandemic was 
quoted to mask other inefficiencies.
What happened here though was that Mr W was caught in perhaps a more unlikely position 
than most of NS&Is other consumers. Rather than making either a contribution or a 
withdrawal request, he made both. And because the withdrawals were prioritised, this was 
picked up before the contribution had been dealt with. Although this was inconvenient for 
Mr W, it doesnt change the fact that I think NS&Is overall approach here was 
understandable and reasonable given the circumstances.
Looking at the withdrawal itself, I take Mr Ws point in that why would he request to withdraw 
more money  and this being a very precise figure  than was in the account. And I agree, it 
would have been very helpful had NS&I have called him to query this. But I do appreciate 
they were short staffed and trying to help as many customers as they could, so a letter was 
sent instead. And in saying that I also recognise that even if someone from NS&I had called, 
it isnt likely theyd have been able to trace his contribution and action the withdrawal for him 
either.
This is linked to another point Mr W raised too, where he felt the call handlers couldve given 
him more accurate information about the dates involved. But what NS&I have explained is 
that Mr Ws deposit was in a queue waiting to be allocated to his account, so call handlers 
wouldnt have had sight of it at that point. It is often the case that large organisations have 
set and separate processes for a variety of different customer instructions and these are 
necessary for orderly operations. So as the deposit hadnt been credited to the account, I 
can see why a call handler wouldnt have had sight of it.
Because of this, I dont think NS&I could have done anything differently when helping Mr W 
either when handling his withdrawal request or when trying to help him on the phone. 
Instead, I thought the call handlers dealt with his concerns reasonably and did what they 
could to help, even though they were not able to resolve the problem for him.
Having listened to the calls, I didnt hear any suggestion that Mr W required his money for a particular reason. He did ask the supervisor to mark her email as urgent, but didnt say why. 
While anyone is entitled to surrender their investments for any reason they wish, had Mr W 
have set out the reason for the urgency  for example, if he had a bill to pay  I would have 
expected NS&I to perhaps have considered if there was a way to help in the meantime. For 
example, it could have been suggested that Mr W amend his withdrawal request to a lower 
amount covered by the £647 on account  that sum was 85% of the total withdrawal Mr W 
had requested, so it could have gone some way towards helping had he have needed the 
money for a set reason or by a set date. But there is nothing to suggest this was indeed the 
case, so I dont think NS&I could have done more to help in the meantime.
Finally, Ive thought about the impact the delayed credit might have had on Mr Ws account, 
but I see that the contribution began accruing interest from the date it was received on 
2 April, rather than when it was booked to his account three weeks later. So he didnt lose 
out financially as a result of the decisions made around priorities.
Ive carefully considered the timeline of events here, and Ive listened to the phone calls Mr 
W made. But having done so, in all the circumstances I think NS&I followed an 
understandable and reasonable process and havent acted unfairly, so I dont think there is a 
need for them to compensate Mr W.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman