DRN-3219155
The complaint
Miss W complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc didnt provide her with a mortgage 
offer saying what the early repayment charge (ERC) was. As a result, she paid an ERC 
higher than she had assumed. Miss W also complains about how TMW handled her 
application for a redemption figure.
What happened
In March 2020 Miss W who had a mortgage with TMW put her house up for sale. But at the 
time there was little movement in the housing market because of the Coronavirus Pandemic. 
Miss W approached her broker about a product transfer as she was on the standard variable 
rate. Her broker told her that there would be an ERC of about £2,500. Miss W was talking 
about a sale in about a years time and believes the broker might have been referring to the 
ERC at that time. Miss W went ahead with the product switch and got a details of change 
document from TMW on 1 April but not a mortgage offer or a document detailing the ERC.
When the housing market opened up again Miss Ws property got an offer which she 
accepted in July 2020. Miss W contacted TMW and found out that the ERC would be 
£4,107.00 in the first year. Miss W sold the house and asked TMW for a redemption figure in 
November 2020 but wasnt provided with a redemption figure until December 2020. Miss W 
says that there was a further delay until TMW released its charge.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. As Miss W 
engaged a broker, our investigator didnt accept that Miss W wouldnt have known the terms 
of mortgage offer including the ERC. But she felt that TMW should refund part of the interest 
that Miss W paid because of the delay in issuing the redemption statement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ws complaint is that she wasnt informed of the ERC she would have to pay before 
she agreed to her new mortgage product, Miss W was taking out a mortgage product and 
knew she would have to pay an ERC if she redeemed the mortgage within a fixed period. 
She says that she contacted her broker and spent time working out figures based on selling 
the house in 3-12 months, comparing old and new interest rates and the effect of the ERC. 
After that she decided to take out the product transfer. Miss W says that she was told by her 
broker that the ERC was £2,500 when in fact it was different. That doesnt appear to me to 
be an issue with TMW. The broker would have had access to TMWs system which would 
have illustrated what the ERC was. According to the circumstances that Miss W sets out, the 
level of the ERC would have been significant to her as it appears she intended selling the 
house during the fixed rate period so I would have expected the broker to have informed 
Miss W of what risk she was exposed to in terms of the ERC before recommending the 
mortgage product to her. It wasnt TMW that recommended the mortgage to her and isnt at 
fault if Miss W got incorrect information.
Miss W says she didnt get the mortgage offer from TMW although she got a previous one. 
TMW says that it sent it to Miss Ws broker who was acting on Miss Ws behalf and Miss W 
accepted the offer through her broker. I see nothing wrong with that process. Theres no 
evidence from the broker that the broker didnt receive it. Clearly whats absent in this 
complaint is any evidence from the broker that they were unaware of the extent of the ERC 
or any suggestion that TMW misled the broker. Miss W says that she never saw the 
mortgage offer and that is the fault of TMW. But the question at issue here is not whether 
Miss W saw the mortgage offer but whether she was aware of how the ERC was calculated 
before she accepted the offer and if, she wasnt, whether TMW was at fault. 
Im satisfied from the evidence I have seen that Miss Ws broker had sufficient information 
provided by TMW on which to advise Miss W about how the ERC was calculated and Miss 
W through her broker accepted the mortgage offer. I note that in her email of 1 December 
2021 that Miss W accepts it was the brokers responsibility to explain the mortgage terms 
and the ERC. Miss Ws complaint is that she wasnt informed about the ERC. But as Miss 
W acknowledges it was in the hands of her broker to inform her. Although I appreciate that 
the pandemic made it more difficult for brokers to operate, it didnt remove brokers 
obligations to clients. So, I cant attach any fault to TMW if Miss W was unaware of the 
extent of the ERC as that was a matter between herself and the broker. So, I dont uphold 
that part of the complaint. 
Like our investigator I agree that the evidence confirms that Miss W contacted TMW in 
November for a redemption statement and shouldnt have had to wait until December to get 
one. I note that TMW doesnt now dispute that point. On that basis I uphold this complaint. 
But I dont see that TMW was responsible for any unreasonable delay in releasing its 
charge. I agree that TMW should refund Miss W the extra interest she paid from when the 
redemption statement should have been received following her request on 2 November until 
3 December 2020 when it was actually paid, 
Putting things right
The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc should reimburse the interest Miss W paid on her mortgage 
from when she would have received the redemption statement following her request on 2 
November 2020 until the 3 December 2020 when it was paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc to reimburse the 
interest set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman