DRN-2978963
The complaint
Mr A complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc incorrectly set up a direct debit amount.
What happened
Mr A says he bought an item with his Sainsburys credit card account and asked it to amend 
the monthly direct debit to £22 a month in place of the minimum amount. He says he called 
Sainsburys in February 2021 to repay the balance after the interest free period ended the 
previous month but was told the direct debit hadnt been amended. Mr A says he was 
caused distress and would like Sainsburys to write off the balance or allow him 22 months 
interest free to repay the debt. He also says Sainsburys compensation of £100 isnt enough.
Sainsburys accepts it made a mistake and didnt amend the direct debit. Its apologised and 
refunded interest and paid £100 compensation. Sainsburys says Mr A ought to have noticed 
the mistake either from account statements or from his bank statements. And says it has 
offered Mr A a further six months interest free period to repay the debt.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
recommended Sainsburys pay a further £100 compensation for what took place as he 
thought Mr A had been caused trouble and upset. 
Mr A agrees with that recommendation, but Sainsburys doesnt and says the 
recommendation is disproportionate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a similar overall view to the investigator but think the fairest 
approach would be for Sainsburys to use the proposed compensation to reduce the amount 
Mr A owes it rather than pay him further compensation. I dont think such a slight change in 
outcome requires a provisional decision and think that if Mr A has repaid Sainsburys the 
balance he owes, then a payment of £100 can be made to him. I think such an approach 
fairly reflects what took place here and what Mr A was trying to achieve by increasing the 
direct debit.
There is no dispute here that Sainsburys made a mistake for which it fairly apologised. I 
have no doubt Mr A would have been caused distress and inconvenience in being told he 
owed a more significant balance that he anticipated when he called Sainsburys in February 
2021. I appreciate that Mr A could have checked his account statements and his bank 
statements and noticed the mistake himself. But I also think it clear that Mr A used the 
account for a one-off payment and in those circumstances, I dont think he would have had 
any need to check the account statements. But I accept he could have checked his bank 
account statements and noticed that the direct debit hadnt been changed.
Mr A has told us about his financial concerns about what took place and I have no doubt that 
caused him distress. I appreciate why Sainsburys questions the level of the proposed award 
and its proportionality, but I think this was a case in which Mr A made a deliberate attempt to 
repay the bulk of the money owed before the interest free period expired. For that reason, I 
dont think the compensation award in total of £200 is excessive or disproportionate. And 
that it fairly reflects Mr As financial circumstances which I accept Sainsburys may not have 
been aware of.  
Putting things right
Overall, I intend to uphold this complaint and think the fairest approach would be for 
Sainsburys to use the additional £100 compensation to reduce the balance Mr A owes. I 
make clear that if Mr A has repaid the balance or some of it then the award or part of it 
should be paid to Mr A. I also think such an approach reflects the fact that its unclear if Mr A 
has used the six-month interest period to make any further payments.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Mr A a 
further £100 compensation, but that award be used to reduce any balance Mr A owes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman