DRN-3733021
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Barclays UK Bank Plc has declined to refund her for payments she 
made by bank transfer when she fell victim to an investment scam.
Barclays says it is not liable for her losses because Mrs L unwittingly authorised the 
payments  and it could not reasonably have prevented what happened.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here and focus on what I consider is significant to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome here. But in reviewing Mrs Ls complaint, I have 
carefully reviewed the detailed submissions made by both sides to this dispute.
Mrs L holds a current account with Barclays. During the course of this investment scam, 
Mrs L sent money from her accounts with another bank, as well as from her Barclays 
account. The details of the scam itself remained the same and are detailed below. Due to 
the overlapping nature of the payments and the scam itself there will of necessity be some 
repetition in what follows. However, in what follows I have considered what happened in so 
far as it relates to Mrs Ls complaint about Barclays.
In August 2020, she saw an online video purporting to show several famous individuals 
endorsing cryptocurrency investment as a way of making money. Mrs L says she later 
followed a link to a company that offered to assist with such investments (which I will refer to 
as R).
Mrs L registered with R on its website and was called by a representative. She was told they 
were expecting cryptocurrency investments to generate significant returns. Specifically, R 
told Mrs L they expected to nearly double any money invested over the course of the next 
four months. At the time, cryptoasset values were rising extremely rapidly and this was being 
widely reported in the mainstream media.
Mrs L says that what she was told by R fitted with her goals - she wanted to achieve a large 
increase in her savings over a short time. Mrs L explains that this wasnt driven by personal 
greed, but rather by a desire to help her son financially, including assisting him in purchasing 
a property.
Mrs L was assisted by R in setting up accounts with legitimate cryptocurrency exchange 
firms (which I will refer to here as B, C and K). These new accounts were set up in her own 
name. Money was to be sent by Mrs L to these new accounts before being converted to 
cryptocurrency and then moved from the exchange to R (purportedly to an account in 
Mrs Ls name on Rs trading platform  although it now seems that was not genuine). 
She was in regular communication with R and was given access to its trading platform. This 
was sophisticated in appearance, supposedly showing the performance of Mrs Ls 
investments and allowing her to make what she believed were trades in different assets.
Mrs L says R told her to mislead her banks about what she was doing if they asked her. This 
was apparently to avoid delays in payments being sent. In particular, it appears she was told 
not to mention R or say that anyone was helping her with the investments.
She made an initial payment from an account she holds with another bank to her newly 
created account with K at the end of August. A small return was credited back to her around 
a week later. Mrs L proceeded to make multiple further payments from that bank. This 
included payments to C. Mrs L received a credit from C (this time for a slightly larger sum) 
on 21 September. 
However, despite these credits received from C and K, Mrs L had already paid out 
significantly more than she had received back.
On 24 September, Mrs L instructed the first payment to be made from her Barclays account. 
This was to go to her account with K. Barclays held the payment until it could speak to 
Mrs L. During the call with the bank, Mrs L reassured it that she was making the payment 
herself, was personally investing in Bitcoin, had fully researched the risks involved and was 
comfortable to go ahead. She denied that anyone was helping her and made no mention of 
R or the trading platform. Barclays accepted her explanation but advised Mrs L not to send 
the payment straightaway. It said she should take some time to look into things further. It 
warned about the risk of scams involving cryptocurrency investment and pointed her to 
sources of advice and information on the subject.
On 25 September, Mrs L resubmitted the payment instruction. Then, over the course of the 
following months Mrs L transferred multiple further payments from her Barclays account to K 
and to B. On various occasions Barclays spoke to her again about the payments, but Mrs L 
maintained the deception that R had suggested to her.
The final payments Mrs L transferred from her Barclays account (and the other bank) were 
made on 14 December 2020. In total, by this point, Mrs L had sent a sum in excess of 
£100,000 from her Barclays account.
Having encountered problems when trying to withdraw her money, then a supposed sudden 
crash in the value of her trades taking her investment balance to less than zero, Mrs L 
concluded that R was not a legitimate company and that the investments had been a scam. 
She later reported the matter to Barclays, in early 2021.
The bank noted that Mrs L had been transferring the money from Barclays to her own 
accounts with B and K. It therefore said any losses had actually happened only at the point 
shed sent the funds onward from B and K - not at the point of the initial transfers from 
Barclays. That meant Barclays shouldnt be liable for the money Mrs L had lost. It directed 
her to raise the matter with B and K.
Mrs L didnt accept this. She has since said that Barclays hadnt done enough to protect her. 
In very brief summary, she said if Barclays had given her a clear warning or questioned her 
more thoroughly when she was sending the payments this would have caused her to pause 
and look more closely into R before proceeding.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ls complaint. He sympathised with the situation Mrs L was 
in. But he didnt think Barclays was liable to refund Mrs L and didnt think it had treated her 
unfairly. The Investigator noted that B and K are legitimate cryptocurrency exchange 
providers. The Investigator explained that because Mrs L was transferring money from her 
Barclays account to accounts held in her own name with B and K, the APP scam 
reimbursement code (the Contingent Reimbursement Model code or CRM Code) wouldnt 
apply. He referenced calls Mrs L had with Barclays, when the bank spoken to her about the nature 
of the payments she was asking it to make. During these calls Mrs L hadnt answered 
honestly when shed been asked what was happening, and as a result the scam hadnt been 
uncovered. Mrs L had seemingly been determined to make these payments, to the extent of 
being willing to deliberately deceive Barclays (and the other bank)  and had done so over a 
sustained period. He didnt find Barclays had been at fault and didnt find it liable to refund 
the loss Mrs L had sustained.
Mrs L didnt accept our Investigators view, so I have been asked to make a final decision on 
her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. And in reaching my findings, Ive carefully considered the evidence provided by the 
parties to the linked complaints brought by Mrs L, including the detailed and comprehensive 
response to the Investigators opinion that was submitted by Mrs L (with the assistance of 
her representative). I am satisfied I am in a position to fairly decide the outcome of Mrs Ls 
complaint about Barclays based on the information and arguments already available to me.
I will address what I think is the heart of the matter here, that being: 
- Is it reasonable to expect Barclays to have recognised these payments as being 
suspicious, and should it have intervened?
- If so, did Barclays intervene at the appropriate point?
- If Barclays had taken reasonable steps in making such an intervention, would that 
have likely resulted in the scam being identified and prevented at the time?
Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs L. I can understand entirely why 
she feels so strongly that her money should be returned, and why she doesnt accept that 
Barclays shouldnt be responsible for refunding her for the portion she sent from her 
Barclays account.
Its important I clearly acknowledge that Mrs L has been the victim of a crime here. She has 
detailed how she was cruelly deceived by a scam that led her to believe she was investing 
her money and had the prospect of making substantial returns. Between the money Mrs L 
sent from her Barclays account and that she sent from her accounts held with another bank, 
shes lost a very large and significant sum as a result of this scam.
However, the principal cause of these losses were the scammers who deceived Mrs L. It 
does not necessarily follow that Barclays is liable for the loss. For me to say Barclays is 
liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank could and should have acted 
in a way that would have prevented the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations 
in some other way.
These were authorised transactions even though Mrs L was the victim of a sophisticated 
scam. She authorised each payment and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 she 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. A voluntary code exists to provide additional protection against authorised push payment 
scams (the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  CRM Code). Barclays is a signatory 
to this code. But these payments were all made to accounts held in Mrs Ls own name. The 
CRM Code only applies to payments made directly to another person  bank transfers to a 
customers own accounts arent covered by the CRM Code. That means the CRM Code 
provisions are not relevant to Mrs Ls complaint  her payment instructions were to send 
money from Barclays to accounts held in her own name at B and K.
But the CRM Code is not the full extent of the protections that could apply in cases such as 
this. In particular, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice Barclays should have 
been looking out for payments or payment patterns that were significantly out of character or 
unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential for financial detriment to its 
customer through fraud or a scam. 
Given this, Ive thought carefully about what it was reasonable to expect of Barclays in this 
case. I must of course, take into account the role Barclays had here  it wasnt the only 
financial institution involved, being one of the multiple steps taken before Mrs Ls funds 
reached the scammer.
On this point Barclays observes that the transfers from its account to Mrs Ls own accounts 
with B and K are not the point at which Mrs L actually suffered a loss. The payments she 
made from Barclays to B and K were to accounts held in her own name. While Mrs L argues 
that R had access to these accounts, the funds ostensibly remained under her control at the 
point they were received in the accounts with B and K. So, the loss didnt occur at least until 
the later transfer out of the account with B and K, and its receipt (presumably by R). 
This suggests the losses occurred later than the transfer from Barclays and involved other 
financial institutions. I do not have the power to consider a complaint about B or K (or indeed 
about R). Of course, the fact that I only have the power to consider the complaint made 
about Barclays and not the other parties involved here does not mean I must necessarily find 
that it is Barclays which should bear liability for Miss Ls losses. 
I have nonetheless given careful consideration to whether Barclays could and should bear 
some responsibility for the eventual loss. As noted above, I am mindful that when Mrs L 
made these payments, I consider there are circumstances where Id expect Barclays to have 
gone beyond its initial obligation to make each payment in line with her instructions. 
That being said, I must also take into account the extent of intervention that could 
reasonably be expected (given the relevant considerations I have outlined above) of a bank 
such as Barclays in relation to an authorised transfer whether sent by the CHAPS 
mechanism or by Faster Payments.
At the time Mrs L attempted to make the first payment to K from her Barclays account, 
Barclays held back the payment until it could speak to Mrs L about the purpose of the 
transfer. Given the size of the payment and other its characteristics, I think Barclays was 
right to identify this payment as being of potential concern and to intervene here as it did.
During the subsequent call, Mrs L was asked about the purpose of the payment, which she 
said was to invest in Bitcoin. She named the company she was sending it to (K). Barclays 
explained about scam Bitcoin trading platforms. There was a discussion about the 
investment Mrs L was making where she was asked if she was anticipating a rise in Bitcoin. 
She confirmed she was, but said she realised it could also fall. 
The payment wasnt yet released, and the next day Mrs L received another call from 
Barclays. She was asked further questions - including whether anyone was helping her with the trading of Bitcoin, to which Mrs L replied no. She said she was doing this all on her own 
and denied that anyone was helping her. She explained shed had returns from previous 
investments shed made in cryptocurrency and knew what she was doing.
She was told about the risk of scams involving cryptocurrency investments. This discussion 
included a description of some brokers whod offer help and assistance in trading, but who in 
reality would be taking the funds for themselves. Barclays told Mrs L if it turned out to be a 
scam it would be almost impossible to recover her money. Mrs L said she was aware this but 
thanked the bank for warning her.
The bank advised against sending the payment just now. It suggested she should research 
investment scams and pointed her to a suitable website for more information. 
Mrs L was told her original payment instruction had been cancelled but she could resubmit it 
once shed looked into things further.
Mrs L argues that she thought her banks were merely performing a routine duty in their 
attempts to protect her. She argues that had Barclays pointed to specific scam cases this 
could have made a difference. She says that if either of her banks had put her under 
stronger pressure, she might have might have revealed the involvement of R and this could 
have uncovered the scam. On the contrary she says she took comfort from the limited 
pressure and questioning.
But I dont agree. I think Barclays did make Mrs L aware of the prevalence of investment 
scams such as this turned out to be, and suggested routes she could take to check what she 
was doing. It had cancelled the payment until Mrs L had had time to carry out such checks. It 
described how such a scam might operate, and that people offering help and assistance in 
trading would be likely taking her funds for themselves. Barclays pointed her to sources of 
information to help. I find that Barclays took appropriate steps here. 
Unfortunately, Mrs L says shed been led by R to deceive her banks about what was 
happening, and this was reflected in the conversations that took place between her and 
Barclays. In particular when asked outright, she denied being given any assistance in 
making the cryptocurrency investment, and insisted she was making the payment herself 
and entirely of her own volition. Despite relevant and appropriate questioning, no mention 
was made of R or the assistance shed received in creating or operating the cryptocurrency 
exchange accounts. She confirmed she was able to access the receiving account and her 
money was being correctly credited. Based on what Mrs L now says, most of what she told 
the bank in response to its questions was false.
Over the course of several subsequent payments, Mrs L consistently and confidently 
maintained this story through a number of calls, with different bank staff members across 
different dates. 
Mrs L has explained why she said what she did. She had been tricked by R into believing 
that revealing the truth to either Barclays (or to her other bank) would simply lead to 
problems and delays in making payments. It seems she was motivated by the promised 
rewards to avoid any such delays. Unfortunately, this, combined with the confidence and 
consistency with which Mrs L was able to deliver this story during not just one, but repeated 
calls, had the consequence of the scam not coming to light until much later. I find this likely 
displaced any vague suspicions Barclays might otherwise have been expected to have.
In this, Mrs L says she was following the guidance of F. F had told her to mislead her banks. 
Mrs L says she thought F was a legitimate investment firm. But I think this ought to have 
alerted her that something was wrong. If this had been a legitimate investment opportunity, then why would she need to lie to her bank about it? This simply isnt the type of instruction a 
legitimate business would ask its customer to carry out. The explanation that this might lead 
to delays doesnt seem particularly persuasive to me -  rather that seems a very minor gain 
in return for her dishonesty - and in reality the delays occurred regardless, as her banks tried 
to protect her.
Of course, a bank such as Barclays is aware that the nature of some scams (such as this 
one) involves a customer being tricked into believing they need to deceive their bank. That 
has been something recognised and incorporated into good industry practice on scam 
prevention for many years. However, there are limits to which it is reasonable to expect a 
bank to challenge an instruction legitimately given by its customer and with a seemingly 
legitimate explanation as to the purpose. 
All considered here, I dont think Barclays reasonably could have uncovered the true 
situation here. Mrs L consistently and confidently hid the connection to F, and so Barclays 
couldnt know these payments werent being made for a legitimate purpose. 
All things considered, on balance I dont find Barclays could reasonably have prevented this 
scam and Mrs Ls ultimate losses. When the scam came to light, I am satisfied that Barclays 
acted appropriately, but it could not recover the funds, given theyd already been moved into 
cryptocurrency from Mrs Ls accounts held with B and K.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont require Barclays to reimburse Mrs L for 
these payments. In saying this, I want to stress that I am extremely sorry to hear about what 
happened to Mrs L and I am sorry she has lost out. She was the victim of a crime and a 
cruel scam carefully designed to defraud her of her money. I appreciate shes lost a very 
significant sum and the loss will have a corresponding impact on her. But it is simply the 
case that in all of the circumstances, I cant fairly and reasonably find Barclays liable for what 
happened.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Ls complaint about Barclays UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman