DRN-3302156
The complaint
Mr S complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits from two defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension schemes (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Portal Financial Services LLP is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to Portal. Ill also refer to the two pensions as OPS 1 and OPS 2.
What happened
Mr S approached Portal in 2017 to discuss his pensions. I can see there were some 
administration issues which meant OPS 1 was the subject of advice from Portal first; this 
was in June 2017. OPS 2 was the subject of later advice, in December 2017. Mr Ss 
circumstances didnt really change much in this short time. The information gathered by 
Portal about Mr S was broadly as follows:
Mr S was 55 years old, working in the local authority sector, married and earning 
around £18,200 per year (gross). Mr and Mrs S had one dependent child at home, 
and they rented a council property. Mrs S wasnt currently employed.
 
Mr Ss only other assets at the time seem to have been his pensions. He said he had 
no disposable income from his salary after outgoings, no savings and he had some 
debt. This was described as loans totaling around £2,700 (which had risen by around 
£1,000 by the second advice session). There was also some credit card balance(s) 
which looks like he was paying a monthly amount of £59 towards.
Portal said the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value of Mr Ss two pensions were £75,797 
for OPS 1; and £3,856 for OPS 2.  
In the light of recently changed rules - pension freedoms - Mr S had an aspiration to 
access his pensions as he was aged 55, although he said he didnt intend to actually 
retire until aged 67.
Portal went on to recommend in two suitability reports that Mr S should transfer out of his DB 
schemes  both OPS 1 and OPS 2. 
For OPS 1, Portal noted Mr Ss intention to access the pension at 55, take a tax-free lump 
sum and to invest the rest. Portal highlighted Mr Ss wish to access these funds more 
flexibly, take more control of his pension matters, take investment risks and pass on money 
after his death in a way that better suited his circumstances. For OPS 2, which came from 
advice in December 2017, Portals suitability report pointed out hed be able to repay debt 
and buy a motorhome.
Mr S acted on the advice by transferring out of both schemes. For OPS 1 he drew a 
maximum 25% tax-free lump sum and put the remainder into a personal pension plan using 
funds recommended to him by Portal. For OPS 2 the recommendation was basically that he 
should cash-in the whole pension, taking a tax-free element and a taxed element. 
Mr S is now represented by a company acting on his behalf which says Mr S was given 
advice by Portal that was unsuitable and has caused him losses. The complaint has been 
referred to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said we 
should uphold it. They thought Mr S would not have transferred out if Portal had given him 
suitable advice. Portal didnt agree with our investigator and I have considered everything 
that it said about the investigators view with care. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. This means Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied the advice to transfer out of 
these schemes was in Mr Ss best interests for either OPS 1 or OPS 2.
Financial comparisons and viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. The advice here was provided in June and 
December 2017 respectively.
Portal said the critical yield required to match Mr Ss OPS 1 benefits at age 65 was 9.8% if 
he took a full estimated pension of £3,394 per year and a tax-free cash element of £22,628. 
It said the critical yield was 11.1% when compared against an estimated pension of £4,311 
per year and a tax-free cash element of £11,530. For OPS 2, the critical yield figures were 
even higher: 15.9% if taking a pension of £276 per year and a tax-free element of £829.
Ive also noted the relevant discount rate closest to when the June 2017 advice was given 
which I can refer to was published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before October 2017 and was 3.7% per year for 9 years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I have kept in mind that Mr Ss aspiration at the time was to start accessing his pension 
savings at around the age of 55, rather than 65. In this case, I have seen that the critical 
yield figures for earlier retirement were much higher. In my view, these yields were an 
indication of just how much Mr S was giving up by transferring out, as buying similar benefits 
elsewhere would require the funds to grow substantially outside his current schemes. However, Ive also considered in detail what Portal has argued about the critical yield; it 
effectively says that this comparison has no real relevance because Mr S never intended to 
take out an annuity, the product which critical yield is said to be comparing with. Portals 
argument rests instead with what it calls a growth rate which it implied to be much lower 
and therefore, more achievable. 
Nevertheless, I dont think this difference was well explained in the suitability reports or 
evidenced for Mr S. Firstly, I dont think Mr S would have understood what was being 
compared here. I think its highly unlikely the growth rate took account of the significant 
benefits being given up in the OPS schemes, such as index-linking, certain guarantees and 
spouses death benefits. It made no mention of charges either. Portals recommendation 
also introduced an investment risk to his pensions. This risk would be sustained throughout 
the years ahead and the funds were exposed to the possibility that the pension would be 
depleted early if the hoped-for performance wasnt delivered. And, as Portals 
recommendation for OPS 2 was to take both taxed and untaxed cash elements, this would 
mean there were no funds in this pension element to grow at all.
I've therefore taken all the above information and figures into account, along with the 
composition of assets in the discount rate and Mr Ss attitude to risk which Portal said was 
moderately cautious. There would be little point in Mr S giving up the guarantees available 
to him through his schemes only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside. But 
here, given what Ive pointed out above, I think that by transferring out, Mr S was likely to 
receive benefits of a lower amount, whether his retirement plans came sooner or later. I think 
all these things indicate it was likely that Mr S would end up with less valuable benefits 
overall by transferring. 
Of course, I accept financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice; 
there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. Ive therefore considered these below to see if the transfer was 
suitable in spite of the probable lower benefits.
Flexibility and income needs
I mentioned above what Portals first suitability report said about what Mr S wanted to 
achieve when he was asking for advice about OPS 1. In my view, the objectives Portal said 
were mentioned by Mr S imply a good knowledge of pensions, linked financial products, and 
what could be achieved by transferring from a DB scheme to a personal pension. The listed 
objectives included - although were not limited to  Mr Ss apparent desire to have pension 
flexibility, ownership and control over his schemes and to take more risks with the funds.
Ive considered these apparent objectives, said to originate from Mr S, with the other 
evidence Ive seen in this case about Mr S himself. Everything else Ive seen shows that he 
was certainly not experienced in these matters. Theres no evidence he had an investment 
history to call upon and his main aspiration seemed very much only to access funds. When 
asked how much hed need for his retirement Mr S said he was unsure. 
I also think Mr Ss apparent desire for control over his pension benefits needed to be 
considered with everything else that was known. As an inexperienced investor, I cannot see 
that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to effectively manage his pension 
funds. I dont think that control was a genuine objective for Mr S  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring him away from the DB schemes. 
To me, the whole tone of both suitability reports was based simply on a requirement for cash 
as soon as possible; there was no real consideration of the downsides for his retirement. For 
example, the rationale for the transfer recommendation in the first report is solely based on accessing cash and Ive noted elsewhere in the file that the amount of money Mr S thinks he 
needs to help deal with his ongoing financial challenges in 2017, is exactly the same as the 
25% tax-free element he could access there and then from OPS 1. The listed objectives for 
OPS 2 are just as succinct, listing only debt repayment and buying a motorhome. So, in my 
view, on each occasion, Portal took what Mr S wanted on face value and just recommended 
transferring out to achieve those goals.
I think Portal failed in its duty. It wasnt there to just transact what Mr S might have thought 
he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what he needed and recommend 
what was in his best interests. And, as Mr S had paid a substantial sum for financial advice, I 
think he would have had a reasonable expectation that the advice would be comprehensive 
and would consider his situation in detail.
I also dont think Mr S required the flexibility Portal inferred. Mr S had only modest financial 
means and I think its also fair to say he was probably being faced with some money 
challenges when he sought the advice. So, I can certainly see how the prospect of a lump 
sum from his pension at the age of 55, and a subsequent income or drawdown, might have 
seemed very useful to him. I think in his situation, the amounts from both OPS 1 and 2 would 
have represented a lot of money to Mr S.
However, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think these challenges necessarily meant 
Mr S was faced with an urgent financial need or a situation which made out a genuine case 
to access his pensions earlier than the normal scheme retirement ages. Whilst obviously an 
attractive prospect, taking out tax-free (or taxed) cash needed to be considered very 
carefully in Mr Ss somewhat vulnerable financial situation and balanced against other 
aspects of his overall circumstances. 
This means I havent seen anything showing that  however modest Mr Ss financial means 
were at that time  he needed money to such an extent as to make all other considerations, 
such as his longer-term retirement security much less important. Theres no suggestion, for 
instance, that his housing situation was at risk at that time or that his debts were in default or 
werent being addressed. The debts quoted at the time seem manageable, although I note a 
slight increase between suitability reports 1 and 2. But as they appear to be being paid off 
monthly with quite large sums, the evidence tends to show they would be paid off in the near 
future. Ive also seen nothing showing his life expectancy was considered so short as to 
make transferring out suitable. 
By being advised to transfer and access his pensions at a comparatively young age, Mr S 
was being exposed to the risk of having less income and guarantees later in life. I think his 
circumstances were such that he would have needed an income in the years ahead, 
particularly as he had no other savings. I think Portal seriously underestimated this and it left 
Mr S facing an uncertain retirement future. Furthermore, because Mr S was only 55 at the 
time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen, he didnt have any concrete retirement 
plans. He even said his likely retirement would be at 67, some 12 years off. I think this just 
added to the fact that it was simply too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring 
out of the DB schemes  after all, OPS 1 was his major retirement provision, and OPS 2 was 
disappearing completely if he followed Portals advice. 
Accordingly, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr S to give up all the 
guaranteed benefits either OPS came with when he didnt really yet know what his needs in 
later life would be. If Mr S later had reason to transfer out of his OPS he could have done so 
closer to retirement age. I also cant see evidence that Portal pointed out that certain large 
purchases might only compromise funds needed for later life.
Death benefitsThis issue was cited by Portal as of importance to Mr S but it was poorly explained why this 
was. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would 
like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension plan was most likely an attractive feature to Mr S. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and they might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer a DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here 
was to advise Mr S about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. 
However, Mr Ss schemes already had good death benefits which I think would have been of 
use had he pre-deceased Mrs S. And, whether the death benefits in the personal pension 
were improved following a transfer depended on how much remained in the fund at the point 
of Mr Ss passing. Given average life expectancy, and the size of the fund, it was always 
likely that this fund would be entirely depleted prior to Mr Ss death providing no death 
benefits. I dont think that Portal made this clear.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. I cant see any evidence 
which shows he placed passing on wealth at or near the top of his objectives for his 
pensions.
Suitability of investments 
Portal recommended that Mr S invest his funds in a personal pension plan. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB schemes wasnt suitable for Mr S, 
it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This 
is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB schemes and so the 
investment in the new fund wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. What Mr S was advised to do was to give 
up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income provided by his two OPS. By transferring 
out of these, he was very likely to obtain much lower retirement benefits and in my view 
there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer or outweigh this. As a 
result of Portals recommendation, he faced an uncertain future.
Ive explained why Mr S shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the schemes just to 
repay debts that were moderate, affordable and which already appeared to be within a 
formulated repayment plan. I have also found the potential for so-called flexible death 
benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his two schemes.
From the outset of the relationship, I think Portal focussed on the possibility to release cash, 
rather than acting with objectivity. 
So, to be clear, I think Portal should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr S, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would have most 
likely remained both his DB schemes, OPS 1 and OPS 2, if suitable advice had been given.Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational schemes on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plans. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pensions isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that 
Portal pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding if he doesnt accept my decision. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr S can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman