DRN-4150000
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by CST Wealth Management Limited (CST) to 
transfer out of the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) and invest the funds in a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him which has resulted in him suffering a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
(DB) scheme. Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new DB pension 
scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The Pensions 
Regulator approved the RAA on 11 August 2017.
Mr P was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of the defined benefits he held in the BSPS. Mr P was unsure about what to do with his 
pension. So, he approached CST for advice in September 2017 and it gathered information 
about his circumstances and objectives. It noted Mr P was aged 29 (almost 30) and was 
engaged to be married  he didnt have any children. That Mr P and his fianc were in the 
process of buying a house and the savings they had were going to be put towards this.
CST recorded that Mr P had a high-medium attitude to risk (6/10) and that he wanted to 
retire early if possible, at around 58 to 60 years old with an income of around £14,000 per 
year, which CST estimated would be the equivalent of £28,000 once inflation was taken into 
account. CST noted that Mr P and his employer were contributing 16% of his salary per 
month to his employers new defined-contribution (DC) pension scheme, equivalent to 
around £5,000 per year. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options - to  stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
On 30 October 2017, CST advised Mr P to transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension. 
This was on the basis that it gave him the potential to improve on the benefits he could 
obtain through the PPF or the BSPS2 and it would give him the flexibility he desired. Mr P 
accepted the advice and, in December 2017, £132,617.55 was transferred to his new 
pension.
Mr P complained, via a representative, in 2021. He now thought the advice to transfer out of 
the BSPS was unsuitable for him as he would most likely be worse off in retirement. 
CST didnt uphold the complaint. It thought the advice was suitable for Mr P as hed said he 
wanted to retire early and it believed he couldve achieved this and his other objectives by 
transferring out of the BSPS. It added that Mr P had the capacity to take a risk with his DB 
pension because hed be building up further pension provisions over the next 30+ years. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. He said there was no need to transfer out of the 
scheme when he had the option of joining the BSPS2 and his anticipated retirement was so 
far away. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Mr Ps objective of greater 
flexibility and the ability to pass on his pension on his death were good reasons to transfer, 
particularly in view of his age. However, the Investigator thought Mr P had a reasonable 
prospect of improving on his benefits, so overall he didnt think the advice to transfer was 
unsuitable.
Mr P didnt agree. He said he couldve met all of his objectives by joining the BSPS2 as the 
funds hed be building up in his DC scheme over the next 30+ years would give him 
flexibility. And he would also be able to pass these funds on to any beneficiaries of his 
choosing on his death.
The Investigator didnt change his opinion so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
In February 2023 I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. I didnt think the 
advice to transfer out of the BSPS was suitable for Mr P. While I acknowledged Mr P 
couldve possibly exceeded the benefits he would be entitled to under the scheme at age 65, 
this was less likely if he retired early, and Mr P had expressed a preference to do so. 
Overall, I didnt think it wasnt in his best interest to give up his guaranteed pension when he 
was so far away from his expected retirement age and he had the option of joining the 
BSPS2. Ultimately, I thought Mr P couldve met all of his objectives by joining the BSPS2 
and that he shouldve been advised to do so.
I recommended Mr P should be compensated for the unsuitable advice in line with the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension (FG17/9). However, I stated that the FCA had 
issued a policy statement on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and guidance 
for calculating redress ( https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf) and that these 
rules would come into effect on 1 April 2023. So, I gave Mr P the choice to have his redress 
calculated under FG17/9 or to wait until the new rules came into effect. But I said that if the 
complaint hadnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time the new rules came into 
effect, I expected CST to carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules and guidance 
in any event.
Mr P accepted the provisional decision and chose to have his redress calculated in line with 
FG17/9.
CST didnt accept my provisional decision and made the following points:
It wasnt required to consider the discount rate when giving the advice to transfer.
The regulators Defined Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT) said the advice 
wouldnt be unsuitable if the consumer wasnt going to be reliant on the DB scheme 
income at retirement because he could produce the same income via a suitable 
alternative. It said Mr Ps circumstances reflected this.Following the transfer, Mr Ps funds would last him beyond age 100 if they 
experienced a return of 3%, inflation was 3% and Mr P withdrew the same income 
hed be entitled to under the BSPS2. CST said this was clearly achievable.
It wasnt appropriate to speculate on Mr Ps fiancs pension entitlement.
I hadnt taken into account that Mr Ps BSPS benefits were only safeguarded against 
inflation to a certain point. Since October 2021 inflation had exceeded 10% so the 
value of his pension wouldve reduced in real terms.
Mr P had genuine concerns about his ability to continue working at the steel works 
beyond age 58 but didnt anticipate retiring fully. Transferring allowed him the 
flexibility to take funds to top up income he may receive from other employment until 
he fully retired.
It wasnt reasonable to delay transferring his BSPS benefits because if Mr P wanted 
to transfer closer to his retirement age he wouldve likely received a much lower 
transfer value.
Mr Ps attitude to risk assessment in 2017 was accurate and Mr Ps risk appetite 
increased in 2021.
Mr P had a reasonable capacity for loss  he and his fianc would be able to 
maintain a satisfactory standard of living in retirement irrespective of the performance 
of the transferred funds.
Passing on his pension was not important to Mr P, he already had some health 
problems and intended to enjoy life to the full.
As there is still disagreement, Im now providing my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im maintaining my decision to uphold it. Ive considered the points made by 
CST in response to my provisional decision. But overall, I dont think the advice to transfer 
out of the BSPS was suitable for Mr P, for essentially the same reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision. However, I will address CSTs points as appropriate below.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CSTs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Under COBS, CST was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal 
recommendation to Mr P was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1R). However, additional 
regulations and guidance applies to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. And COBS 
19.1.6G says the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. 
And that a business should only have considered a transfer out of the scheme if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests.
So, Ive considered all of the applicable regulations here. And having looked at all the 
evidence available again, Im not satisfied CST took reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
to transfer was suitable for Mr P, or that it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability 
CST carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS), as required by the regulator, 
showing how much Mr Ps pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). As details of the BSPS2 had been 
released by this time, it was based on the likely benefits available to Mr P through the 
BSPS2.
According to the fact-find and suitability report, Mr P expressed the desire to retire early, 
possibly between the ages of 55 and 60. However, CST estimated that by the time Mr P 
would be approaching retirement, it was likely the minimum retirement age would be around 
age 58. So, it based its advice on Mr P retiring at age 58 at the earliest. The TVAS dated 
29 October 2017 set out the relevant critical yields; at age 65 it was 4.96% if he took a full 
pension or 4.44% if he took tax-free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension and at age 58 it 
was 5.59% for a full pension and 4.98% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. 
The critical yield required to match the benefits provided through the PPF at age 65 was 
4.35% if Mr P took a full pension or 4.12% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. At age 58 
the critical yields increased to 5.20% for a full pension and 4.96% if he took TFC and a 
reduced pension. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.7% per year for 28 years to retirement (age 
58)  the discount rate to age 65 was also 4.7%. For further comparison, the regulator's 
upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower 
projection rate 2% per year.
CST assessed Mr Ps attitude to risk as 6/10 or high-medium. In my provisional decision 
I said that I thought this was most likely because Mr P answered the majority of questions as 
neither agree or disagree, which I said had the effect of increasing the overall risk score. 
CST disagreed with this statement, saying only answering positively or negatively affected the risk score. While Mr P answering the questions in this way may not have directly affected 
his score, to my mind it still meant that Mr Ps risk assessment was based on him answering 
fewer questions in a way which actually contributed to his risk score. And I maintain that its 
notable Mr P said he agreed he took lower financial risks than the average person. CST 
says that is incorrect and says Mr P answered this question as neither agree or disagree. 
But that isnt right, I think CST is referring to the statement, compared to the average 
person, I would say I take more risks  Mr P answered this statement as neither agree or 
disagree. Nevertheless, assessing a customers risk profile is not simply a tick-box exercise. 
The assessment should take account of Mr Ps whole circumstances.
Mr P had very little investment experience. And to my mind, a customer with a genuine high-
medium attitude to risk would be experienced in investment matters, as I think they would 
need such experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks such an investment 
strategy would pose. CST makes the point that Mr P chose to increase his risk profile in 
2021  but I dont think that is relevant to my consideration of his circumstances in 2017. 
And while Mr P may have wanted to take a higher risk, that doesnt necessarily mean it was 
suitable for him to do so.
I also think a high-medium investor would have a moderate capacity for loss. I appreciate 
that Mr P was expected to work for another 30 years or so, and as such would be expecting 
to build significant further pension funds. But I still dont think he could afford to take a higher 
level of risk with these pension funds just because he had the capacity to build more in 
future. However, given the time to retirement, I accept Mr P could afford to take some risk 
and he did have some capacity for loss. So, I overall, I think a fair assessment of his attitude 
to risk was most likely medium or balanced which isnt substantially different to the risk 
level CST reached.
I've taken the discount rate into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate, Mr Ps medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. The highest critical yield 
was 5.59% which was based on Mr P taking a full pension through the BSPS2 at age 58. If 
Mr P decided to take a reduced pension and TFC at that age, which I think is likely, the 
critical yield reduced to 4.98%. So, on the face of it, it seems to me that Mr P had a good 
chance of matching the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 or the PPF, even if he 
retired at age 58. And if he deferred his retirement closer to age 65, then there was a good 
chance he could exceed those benefits. However, Im mindful that this would require returns 
at a consistent level of around 5% over a period of 30 years, which cant be guaranteed. This 
is something CST acknowledged in the suitability report. And if there were losses or 
sustained periods of lower returns, Mr P could have received lower overall retirement 
benefits, particularly if he did retire before age 65.
CST says that this is nonsense because its cash flow analysis shows Mr Ps funds would 
last beyond age 100 if he achieved a return of 3% and took the same income hed be 
entitled to under the BSPS2 adjusted for inflation at 3%. While I agree that it is reasonable to 
say Mr P couldve most likely achieved this rate of return, CST isnt comparing like with like 
here. The critical yield relates to the rate of return required to produce a fund large enough at 
retirement to purchase the equivalent benefits Mr P was entitled to through the BSPS2, and 
this contained a spouses and dependents pensions. Whereas the 3% CST has quoted is 
the return required to cover the BSPS2 income Mr P would be entitled to alone.
Although CST says Mr P didnt want an annuity, the regulator still required CST to consider 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up. In any event, I dont think Mr P could realistically say with any certainty whether he 
would want to take a regular income at retirement or not  he wasnt expecting to retire for 
another 30 years. Im also mindful that most people, if asked, would express a preference for 
flexibility. But that doesnt mean it was in Mr Ps best interest to prioritise flexibility over a guaranteed income in retirement for him and his spouse (which he could achieve by taking 
benefits from the DB scheme).
CST also says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because 
taking this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. But I havent 
based my findings on the discount rate on its own. Nevertheless, I think it is a reasonable 
additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably 
achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses 
to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a 
personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the 
discount rate as this wouldve been considered a reasonable assumption of the likely 
returns. And in any event, this has been considered in tandem with the regulators published 
projection rates, which providers were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along 
with Mr Ps attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe hed wasnt likely to be better off in 
retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
I also note that in the Retirement Options Questionnaire Mr P was asked to rank his 
priorities. Although he only seems to have ranked the listed priorities between C and F 
(when the scale given was A - highest priority to F - lowest priority), Mr P chose the following 
as his equal highest priorities:
Provision of an increasing pension
A guaranteed pension payable for life
Maximum pension possible.
So, although I accept Mr P wanted the maximum pension possible, it seems to me that a 
guaranteed, increasing pension was just as important to him. And this is what the BSPS2 
and the PPF wouldve provided him with.
Overall, I accept that by transferring Mr P had a good chance of improving on the benefits 
available to him through the BSPS and PPF at age 65. But this wasnt without risk, and Mr P 
could have received lower overall retirement benefits if he retired earlier than this, 
particularly if investment returns werent as expected. While the transfer could have been 
financially viable, that isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. And I dont 
think that the other objectives CST identified were good enough reasons to transfer out of 
the DB scheme. Thats because I think Mr P had other ways of meeting them without risking 
his guaranteed pension. Ive explained why below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems one of the main reasons why CST recommended this transfer was for the flexibility 
and control it offered Mr P. CST says Mr P thought he wouldnt likely be able to continue 
working at the steelworks beyond age 58, but he wasnt likely to retire fully. It says Mr P 
wouldve sought other employment and therefore may have needed to take funds out of his 
pension as and when, which transferring his pension would allow him to do. But I think its 
important here to say that Mr Ps anticipated early retirement was still some 30 years away 
and couldve been subject to change. So, I dont think Mr P had a need for flexibility at the 
time of the advice. Nevertheless, Ive considered whether Mr P needed to immediately 
transfer out of the DB scheme to meet his objective to retire early in the way he described.
CSTs suitability report presented early retirement from the DB scheme as being something 
to be avoided because of the penalty that applied when doing so. Whereas it said if Mr P 
transferred his pension he could retire early without penalty.  But the penalty that CST 
referred to was in fact actuarial adjustments. Those adjustments reflect that, by taking a 
pension earlier, its likely that the pot to pay for that pension will have to last longer. As such the schemes actuaries calculate a reduction in the yearly pension to allow for the fact that 
the pensioner will claim the pension  most likely  for a longer period. That is not a penalty 
for taking the pension early, its simply a compromise for having the benefits of that pension 
paid over a longer period. And I think describing early retirement factors as a penalty wasnt 
providing Mr P with information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
While Ive taken on board what CST has said about Mr P most likely semi-retiring at age 58 
rather than retiring fully, even if those plans were followed to the letter, Im not persuaded he 
needed to transfer out of the BSPS to achieve this. CST noted that Mr P wanted an income 
of £14,000, possibly from age 58, although with inflation this was likely to amount to £28,000 
per year. However, given that CST has said Mr T still intended to keep working in some 
capacity that figure might have been lower. In any event, it seems to be no more than a best 
guess  in reality, Mr P had little idea of what his needs in retirement would be given it was 
so far away.
Under the BSPS2, CST estimated that Mr P could take an annual pension of £12,080 or 
TFC of £55,697 and a reduced annual pension of £8,354 at age 65. At 58, this was a full 
pension of £8,413 or TFC of £40,904 and a reduced pension of £6,135. Under the PPF the 
benefits at age 65 were not substantially different, but at age 58 both the annual pension and 
reduced pension with TFC were higher than under the BSPS2. Its clear that whatever 
scheme Mr P joined, the income he could take at age 58 wouldnt have met his full income 
needs, although it may have been sufficient if Mr P was still earning an income. But 
regardless, I think it wouldve provided a solid foundation of guaranteed income, to which 
Mr P could add his earned income or extra income from his DC scheme  a fund hed be 
building up over the next 30 years or so. Alternatively, Mr P couldve deferred taking his 
BSPS2 benefits until age 65, instead relying wholly on his DC funds to meet his income 
needs until his state pension became payable. Either way, Mr Ps expected retirement funds 
at age 58 could already provide him with flexibility.
In the suitability report CST said Mr P intended to take more of his fund in early retirement 
and would likely reduce this when his state pension became payable. And it was this feature 
of a personal pension that drove his desire to transfer out of the DB scheme. But the income 
Mr P was entitled to under the BSPS2 wasnt going to be enough on its own to meet his 
income requirements once he fully retired, even when taking into account his likely state 
pension entitlement. So, I dont think that Mr P wouldve needed to reduce this aspect of his 
income  instead, he couldve simply reduced the amount he was taking from his DC 
pension to top this up. So, CST ought to have known Mr P already had a way to meet this 
objective at retirement, instead of assuming a transfer was needed now to meet it.
As Ive said, Mr P would be building up further retirement funds over the next 30 years or so 
through his employers DC scheme. While I appreciate Mr P couldnt be certain his 
employment with British Steel would continue for that long, its more likely than not that if he 
did change employers in the meantime, both he and his employer would be contributing to a 
pension. And I think its reasonable to assume those contributions would continue at a 
similar rate, particularly given most people choose to increase their pension contributions as 
they get older. The fact-find says Mr P was contributing around £5,000 per year to his DC 
pension. Even without taking increases in salary or investment growth into account, this 
pension could be worth over £140,000 after 28 years. And by assuming modest net growth 
of 2% over the same period, the funds could be worth in the region of £200,000 by the time 
Mr P said he planned to semi-retire.
Mr Ps fianc also had her own workplace pension. However, no details of this were 
recorded. So, I dont know what pension Mr Ps fianc was expecting to have or from what 
age. CST says it didnt need to consider Mr Ps fiancs pension arrangements because they 
were not yet married and it says it doesnt know whether they are married today. But CST gathered personal information about Mr Ps fianc and considered their joint assets and 
liabilities, including a mortgage they were about to take on. So, I still think this information 
ought to have been obtained so that CST could take a reasonable view on whether 
transferring Mr Ps pension was needed in order to meet their household income need in 
retirement.
Nevertheless, even if I assume Mr P semi-retired at age 58, he would likely have access to 
at least £200,000 in his DC scheme (25% of which would also be tax-free). This couldve 
been added to the £40,904 TFC and reduced pension of £6,135 he couldve taken from the 
BSPS2. And overall, I think that these provisions, as well as whatever income Mr P earned, 
wouldve given him a sufficient degree of flexibility to meet his income need of £28,000 per 
year until his state pension became payable  around nine years later. At that point, I think 
Mr Ps BSPS2 pension and state pension and his future wifes state pension wouldve most 
likely been sufficient to cover their income needs. This meant any remaining funds in the DC 
scheme couldve been left to continue growing.
So, I dont think Mr P had a genuine need for flexibility at the time of the advice. But, even if 
he did, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to 
have flexibility in retirement.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr P could have most likely met his income needs in retirement through 
a combination of taking his benefits under the BSPS2 (or the PPF) and taking flexible 
drawdown from his DC scheme. So, I dont think it was suitable or in Mr Ps best interests to 
advise him to transfer his DB pension, exposing him to the risks of the financial markets, just 
to have extra flexibility that he didnt need. Thats particularly the case given Mr Ps DC 
scheme would provide him with a degree of flexibility and would already be exposed to 
investment risk.
Death benefits
In response to my provisional decision, CST said that passing on his pension was not 
important to Mr P as he was already experiencing health problems and he intended to use 
his funds to enjoy his retirement. However, CSTs suitability report said that Mr P wanted to 
leave a legacy to his family and that this was a supporting reason to transfer his pension. 
Several key points of its recommendation related to the higher level of death benefits the 
personal pension provided compared with the scheme.
So, I maintain my view that CST also recommended Mr P should transfer his BSPS benefits 
to enhance his death benefits. However, while Im mindful that in the Retirement Options 
Questionnaire Mr P said he preferred that his pension fund didnt die with him, he also said 
he didnt want the opportunity to leave part of his pension fund to his estate on his death. 
And that his partner had an adequate income and it shouldnt be a significant factor in his 
decision. So, I dont think that leaving a legacy was as important to Mr P as CSTs suitability 
report suggested. 
Nevertheless, I can see that the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr P. But, whilst I appreciate death benefits are 
important to consumers, and Mr P might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr P about 
what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr P 
was due to be married and so the spouses pension provided by either the BSPS2 or the 
PPF wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr P predeceased her. I dont think CST made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr P. The spouses pension was guaranteed and it 
escalated  and under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would be calculated as if no TFC 
had been taken. Furthermore, this benefit was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. This pension, when added 
to Mr Ps spouses own workplace pension and state pension wouldve most likely met her 
own income needs should Mr P pass way early. In any event, CST should not have 
encouraged Mr P to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his own security in retirement.
In addition, Ive explained above that Mr Ps DC pension couldve likely been worth at least 
£200,000 by the time he retired. And while Mr P wouldve been reliant on this fund to meet 
his income needs in the early years of his retirement, particularly if he semi-retired at age 58, 
there would still most likely have been a sum remaining that he couldve left to continue 
growing beyond his retirement. And Mr P couldve nominated any beneficiary/beneficiaries of 
his choosing to receive the remaining funds in this pension on his death.
So, I think its clear Mr P already had valuable death benefits through the DB scheme and he 
couldve made other arrangements (in the ways Ive set out above) to ensure that a part of 
his pension didnt die with him. And had CST explained to Mr P that he could meet his 
objectives without giving up his own guaranteed pension or his future wifes spouses 
pension, I think Mr P wouldve been satisfied with this.
Lastly, if Mr P genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his future wife, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think CST 
couldve explored life insurance. This doesnt appear to have been explored in any 
meaningful way and given Mr Ps age, this wouldve most likely been cheap to secure, either 
on a whole of life or term assurance basis. The Retirement Options Questionnaire notes that 
Mr P had some health problems, but no further details were provided so I dont know if this 
wouldve had an impact on insurance rates or Mr Ps life expectancy. But this shouldve been 
explored fully to determine whether taking insurance out was a viable alternative. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. And I think Mr P couldve 
provided extra death benefits to family members of his choosing without risking his 
guaranteed pension.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr P, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. So its quite possible that 
Mr P was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the concerns he had about his 
employer and his negative perception of the PPF.
Its well documented that this was a period of uncertainty for people like Mr P. But this only 
serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the need for suitable advice. So, CST needed to give Mr P an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by the time the advice was given details of BSPS2 were known and it 
seemed likely it was going ahead. So, I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Ps concerns about 
the scheme moving to the PPF. But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go 
ahead, I think that CST shouldve reassured Mr P that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt 
as concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr P through the PPF would still provide a significant amount of the income he thought hed need at retirement, and if he 
semi-retired at age 58, its likely the benefits available under the PPF wouldve been higher 
than those under the BSPS2. Furthermore, this income was still guaranteed and was not 
subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve led to CST 
recommending Mr P transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
I also think Mr Ps desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr P was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on their own. Indeed, the recommendation letter 
suggested he would remain reliant on professional advisers. So, I dont think that having 
control was a genuine objective for Mr P  it was simply a consequence of transferring away 
from his DB scheme.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr P. But CST 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr P might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr P needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr P was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). While Mr P 
couldve likely exceeded the benefits available to him at age 65, if he retired early that was 
less likely. And I dont think Mr P shouldve been encouraged to take that risk, particularly 
when there werent any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ps best interests for him to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension when he was so far away from his retirement, not when he 
had the opportunity of joining the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr P had around 30 years before 
he expected to semi-retire, and while he liked the idea of retiring early, I think it was too far 
away in the future for him to say with any certainty this was something hed definitely do.
For most people, early retirement means a significant drop in income. And that would 
dramatically reduce most individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. So, when faced 
with that prospect at an early retirement age, most people choose not to retire. Instead they 
opt to continue working to support their current and future lifestyle options. I don't think that it 
would've been in Mr Ps interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very 
early retirement. Also, Mr P was due to marry, and under the BSPS2 his future wifes 
pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr P chose to do so). The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
So, I think CST shouldve advised Mr P to opt into the BSPS2. And by doing so, Mr P 
wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he 
needed to.
CST says that if Mr P opted to join the BSPS2 and then transfer out of the scheme closer to 
his retirement age he was likely to receive a lower CETV. However, I dont think that was a 
particularly relevant consideration at the point of the advice. Mr P shouldnt have been 
encouraged to transfer out of the scheme just because it was felt the transfer value offered 
at the time was high.CST also says that Mr Ps BSPS2 benefits would only be safe-guarded against inflation to a 
certain point. And since October 2021 inflation has exceeded 10% so the value of Mr Ps 
pension has reduced in real terms. But I dont think the inflation experienced since 2021 
couldve been anticipated when Mr P was given the advice in 2017. And in any event, joining 
the BSPS2 wouldve still offered him a degree of protection against the impact of inflation 
without him having to take any risk with his pension funds.
CST added that if using the FCAs DBAAT the advice would be found to be suitable. Thats 
because Mr P wasnt going to be reliant on the DB scheme income at retirement because he 
could produce the same income via a suitable alternative. But whether the consumer is 
reliant on the DB scheme income is just one of many examples of unsuitability expressed 
within the tool. And in any event, at the point of the advice, Mr P was reliant on the DB 
income as he had no other meaningful pension funds available to him. So, I dont think CST 
could say with any certainty at the point of advice that Mr P wasnt going to be reliant on the 
DB scheme income in retirement. And as Ive set out above, I think he would have been 
reliant on it even if he built up further pension funds (as expected).
CST also says Mr P made an informed choice to proceed with the transfer and he wouldve 
transferred in any event. I accept that CST disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr P, and 
provided him with a significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it 
advised Mr P to transfer out, and I think Mr P relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr P wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, if CST 
had advised against it. I say this because Mr P was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if CST had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his 
best interest, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ps fear about the PPF or his desire for flexibility was so great that 
he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interest. 
And if CST had explained Mr P was unlikely to significantly improve on the benefits available 
to him through the BSPS2 or the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his 
income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, as well as providing 
extra death benefits, I think that wouldve carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I think CST should compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And its the benefits 
available to Mr P under the BSPS2 at age 65 which should be used for comparison 
purposes. I dont think its reasonable to say Mr P will retire any earlier than this.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would most 
likely have opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
CST must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. CST should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation.
For clarity, Mr P has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CST should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts CSTs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, CST may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require CST Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I have also 
recommended that CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr P the balance. 
If Mr P accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on CST Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
CST Wealth Management Limited should provide details of its calculations to Mr P in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman