DRN-2937773
The complaint
Mr W and Miss W complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wont defend their 
claim on their motor insurance policy. Mr W is a named driver on Miss Ws policy.
What happened
Mr W was giving Miss W a driving lesson when their car was hit by a lorry at a roundabout. 
Admiral initially told Mr W that the damage to their car was inconsistent with the lorry drivers 
version of events. It later reviewed the evidence and decided that the lorry drivers version of 
events was more probable. So it said it wouldnt defend the claim. Admiral paid Mr W £80 
compensation for giving him incorrect information. But Mr W thought Admiral should have 
asked for the lorrys dashcam footage and tracking records. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had reasonably considered the evidence available before making its decision. He thought it 
had explained that the dashcam and tracking records wouldnt add anything. He thought its 
offer of £80 compensation was fair and reasonable for giving Mr W conflicting information. 
Mr W replied that Admiral hadnt considered his evidence as an independent witness. He 
said that Admiral had prejudiced his position by telling him initially that the lorry driver was at 
fault. This was because this had prevented him from appointing an accident investigator and 
obtaining any dashcam and tracking evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W said that Miss W was stationary when she was hit from behind by the lorry. The lorry 
driver said Miss W had pulled out in front of him. Admiral initially told Mr W that the damage 
to their car wasnt consistent with the lorry drivers version of events that they had been in 
motion. But, after considering photographs provided by the lorry driver, it held Miss W fully 
liable.  
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Miss W the same as someone else in her position. 
I can see that Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss W to 
take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Miss W has to follow its advice in 
connection with the settlement of a claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This 
is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to 
take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or 
better to compromise.
I can see that the evidence that Admiral had to consider was the conflicting versions of 
events, the damage to Miss Ws car and the lorry, and photographs taken at the scene after 
the event by Mr W and the lorry driver. 
Mr W thought Admiral should have pursued dashcam and tracking evidence from the lorry. 
But it explained that the lorry driver didnt have to provide this and that the angle of the dash 
camera would be unlikely to show the incident. So I cant say that its decision not to ask for 
these was unreasonable. 
Mr W said his witness statement hadnt been taken into consideration. But I think Mr W, as a 
named driver and parent of Miss W, cant reasonably be regarded as independent in this 
situation. 
Admiral considered the evidence and thought it would be unable to prove that Miss W was 
stationary at the time of the collision. It thought that her learning driver status didnt have any 
bearing on its liability decision. It thought the lorry drivers version of events was more 
probable based on the photographic evidence. It wasnt persuaded by Mr Ws arguments. 
And so it accepted full liability on Miss Ws behalf. 
I think it did this after reasonably investigating the claim and considering the evidence 
available. And I think its entitled to make this decision by the policy terms and conditions. So 
I cant say its done anything wrong in this.
Mr W was also unhappy that Admiral initially told him that the damage to their car wasnt 
consistent with the lorry drivers version of events that they had been in motion. I agree that 
this conflicted with what Admiral later told Mr W. Mr W thought that hed been prevented 
from making his own investigation of the claim by Admiral giving him incorrect information. 
But I think its reasonable for an insurer to change its decision after receiving further 
evidence. 
Admiral paid Mr W £80 compensation for the trouble and upset this conflicting information 
caused. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances as its in keeping with our 
published guidance. I dont require Admiral to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman