DRN-2597835
The complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) gave him a poor service 
under his HomeCare policy. He says this led to his tenants withholding rent and to repairs 
being needed at his property.
British Gas Insurance Limited is the insurer responsible for meeting claims under the policy. 
So when I refer to British Gas I refer to that insurance company and not to any company with 
a similar name.
What happened
Mr S owns a property which he rents out. He has boiler cover through his HomeCare policy 
through British Gas. In October 2019 the boiler became faulty and British Gas was called in. 
Mr S says that British Gas visited his property on 7 October 2019. But they didnt tell him the 
boiler couldnt be fixed for two weeks. 
Mr S says British Gas visited his property 19 times until a new boiler was installed on 30 
October 2019. Due to the problems caused by the broken boiler, Mr S says his tenants were 
without hot water and heating for 23 days.  And that they were without water for 24 hours. Mr 
S says that his tenants withheld rent for the month of October 2019, because of the 
problems with the boiler. He asked British Gas to cover the £1,425 hed lost because of this.
Mr S also says British Gas damaged his property when the new boiler was installed. He 
asked them for a further refund for the cost of repairing his property. 
British Gas didnt agree they should cover the lost rent or the cost of the repairs. But they did 
agree that theyd caused inconvenience and that thered been an excessive number of visits 
before it was considered the boiler couldnt be repaired. They first offered £100, which they 
increased to £150, to recognise the poor service theyd provided. Mr S didnt think this was 
enough recompense. So he complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that while it was clear that the tenants 
did withhold rent, he couldnt hold British Gas responsible. He also said that this service 
couldnt help with the complaint about repairs the property needed after the installation, as 
the installation wasnt covered under the policy. Mr S didnt agree so his complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
The poor service
Ill first consider whether the £150 British Gas offered for the inconvenience they caused is 
fair and reasonable under the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that any awards this service makes for distress and inconvenience 
arent designed to punish a business for any wrongdoing  thats the job of the regulator (the 
Financial Conduct Authority). But we do expect businesses to acknowledge any wrongdoing 
and make it right.
British Gas have acknowledged that there were too many visits to fix the boiler. Theyve 
offered £150 in compensation for those issues.  Given all the evidence, which Ill address in 
detail in The withheld rent section next, this is in line with what I wouldve recommended if 
British Gas hadnt already made their offer. So I dont intend to ask them to do any more 
than theyve already offered for the inconvenience all the visits caused.
The withheld rent
Mr S says hes had to compensate his tenants for the lack of hot water/heating while the 
repairs were being attempted. He says the high number of visits meant that the tenants were 
without working heating and hot water for some time and that this led to them withholding 
rent.  
Its clear that some inconvenience for the tenants must be expected when theres a problem 
with the heating system that needs to be fixed. So I need to assess whether the way that 
British Gas handled the matter added to that. 
 
I note that the initial fault was intermittent. I also note that the policy requires British Gas to 
carry out repairs within a reasonable time. I also consider that I can only hold British Gas 
responsible for any part of the delay in fixing the boiler that couldve reasonably be avoided. 
From the call notes, British Gas sent engineers out on 13 separate occasions between 7 and 
30 October 2019, when the new boiler was eventually installed. Two of the visits were for a 
separate leak unrelated to the complaint. Two of the visits were unsuccessful as no one 
answered. And two of the visits were to install the new boiler. So the records show seven 
visits to identify the issues. 
The first two visits, on 7 October 2019 and 14 October 2019, appeared to have successfully 
fixed the initial fault. It looks like it took British Gas a week to return and fit the parts. 
Although thats longer than Id expect, given the tenants were without heating and hot water, 
British Gas did try to visit the property on 8 October 2019. So I cant hold them responsible 
for any delays to the repairs up to 14 October 2019 as I can see they tried to return one day 
after the initial visit to repair the fault. 
The boiler failed again. So the next five visits were between 16 October 2019 and 23 
October 2019.  An engineer attended the day the issue was first raised and ordered the 
parts he thought were needed. Two further visits took place on 21 October 2019. One of 
these was by an engineer who wasnt qualified to do the required job. But a qualified 
engineer did attend later the same day, so the mistake didnt cause delay. I can see that the 
tenants would be upset at having to wait five days between the initial visit and the second 
visit, given the problems they were experiencing. But I would expect there to be a short wait 
for the replacement part. Engineers had to visit again on 22 and 23 October and it was at 
this point that British Gas decided that the boiler couldnt be fixed.
The new boiler was installed between 29 and 30 October 2019. I can see that Mr S called 
British Gas on the 29 October to complain that it had taken too long to install the new boiler.Looking at all the information provided, I havent seen enough evidence that British Gas took 
too long to identify that the boiler couldnt be repaired. It appeared that their engineers had 
fixed the problems with the boiler by 14 October 2019. And it seems reasonable that British 
Gas attempted a different type of repair between 16 and 21 October 2019 before declaring 
that the boiler needed to be replaced. 
I can see that it took around a week after realising the boiler couldnt be repaired for a new 
one to be installed. But I have no evidence to show that British Gas was responsible for any 
delays to the installation process. I also note no record of British Gas failing to attend or 
cancelling appointments. 
In looking at Mr Ss complaint, British Gas said theyd considered the inconvenience caused 
and agreed that the number of visits required before the boiler was considered irreparable 
were excessive. So they offered £100 to recognise the poor service provided.  When Mr S 
explained that, because there was no heating and hot water for a period of time, his tenant 
had withheld rent and hed had to paid them compensation, British Gas said they couldnt 
provide compensation up to the level of the withheld rent. But they agreed to increase the 
level of compensation to £150.
Mr Ss policy does provide cover for alternative accommodation when there is a drastic 
problem with a boiler. The policy booklet says:
Costs of up to £500 for alternative accommodation and travel if your home
is unfit to live in as a result of your boiler catching fire or exploding 
But it doesnt provide cover for situations like this one, where issues with the boiler take   
time to identify. And I note that the tenants still had use of the property during the repairs, 
although of course living in the property wouldve been far from ideal under the 
circumstances. 
There were some points over the period that the boiler was being assessed that the tenants 
were without heating and hot water. And there was one day when the tenants were without 
water altogether. This mustve been extremely inconvenient. And, from the evidence Ive 
seen, the tenants clearly felt that they shouldnt have to pay full rent over the period that they 
were suffering from the consequences of the broken boiler.
But the tenancy agreement Mr S has provided doesnt show that his tenants were entitled to 
withhold rent because of the problems caused by the broken boiler. And the HomeCare 
policy doesnt provide recompense for the consequences of a broken boiler. So I cant hold 
British Gas responsible for any loss of rent.
The installation damage
Mr S says that British Gas caused damage to his property when they fitted his new boiler. 
Unfortunately, based on the information I have, I consider that this service has no right to 
consider this part of the complaint.
The complaint handling rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook
confirm the circumstances in which we can look at a case. As the damage was caused 
during the installation process, this wasnt covered under the HomeCare agreement. We can 
only consider actions that take place under the terms and conditions of Mr Ss HomeCare 
policy with British Gas.
I note that the policy covers a boiler replacement if its either less than seven years old or 
between seven and ten years old and continuously covered by a HomeCare agreement. But 
as Mr S has confirmed that the boiler was over ten years old, he had to pay for the 
replacement. So, as the new boiler wasnt provided under the terms of the policy, the installation wasnt covered by the policy. So unfortunately this service cant look at this part 
of the complaint.
In summary, I cant consider the damage Mr S says was caused during the installation of the 
new boiler as part of this complaint. Unfortunately I cant hold British Gas responsible for Mr 
Ss tenants withholding rent, even though I can see that the lack of hot water/heating 
wouldve made living in the property worse for the tenants. And Ive looked at the offer British 
Gas made in respect of the inconvenience they caused and it seems fair and reasonable 
under the circumstances. So I cant ask British Gas to do any more. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman