DRN-3759372
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as D has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr N a director of D, has complained on Ds behalf. 
What happened
D runs a construction industry business for which it held business interruption insurance with 
RSA. D said that most of its work was for residential homes. D claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. RSA 
initially declined Ds claim as it didnt think the policy provided cover. However, it 
reconsidered the claim after the Supreme Court judgment in the Business Interruption 
Insurance test case. RSA said the policy could provide cover in principle but RSA didnt 
think D had closed or had restrictions placed on its premises due to a case of Covid-19 
manifesting at its premises. 
D said that a staff member, who I will refer to as G, was sent home from work on 23 March 
2020 after displaying symptoms of Covid-19. G provided an isolation note which was also 
dated 23 March 2020 and a statement to confirm what had happened. D said that it took the 
decision to close the business for a couple of weeks after sending G home. D said its staff 
needed to self-isolate for 14 days after coming into contact with G so it had to close the 
business. It also said that staff couldnt socially distance whilst out in the vans. D provided 
pay slips which showed that G was paid statutory sick pay. 
RSA said it did not dispute that G had displayed symptoms of Covid-19 but said there wasnt 
enough evidence to support that he had attended the premises and been sent home. RSA 
said that the letter that D had sent to its employees informing them of the businesss closure 
indicated that the decision to close had been taken in order to keep staff safe rather than 
because of Covid-19 manifesting at the premises. 
RSA said that, in any event, Ds business wasnt required to close by the Government and 
could have remained open. So it refused to pay Ds claim as it didnt think there had been a 
closure or restrictions placed on the premises by a relevant authority due to a case of  
Covid-19 at Ds premises.
Unhappy with RSAs response, D brought its complaint to our service.
Our Investigator looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think D had been required to close by the Government due to Covid-19 manifesting at its 
premises. 
D asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It said G displayed symptoms of Covid-19 at its 
premises. It said it did not work on construction sites and 90% of its business was to 
residential homes. Therefore, D said its diaries essentially closed as homeowners advised 
that they didnt want work carried out on their homes. D said despite closing it would not 
have had any work for a few weeks anyway. D said it felt that as a small business it was 
being treated unfairly. 
Prior to me reaching a decision, our Investigator sent D a link to Government guidance1 from 
18 March 2020 which set out that businesses did not need to send all employees who had 
come into contact with someone with Covid-19 home to self-isolate. Our Investigator asked 
D if it could point to the guidance it had relied on instead. In response, D said that it was 
following the Government advice and daily briefings to self-isolate if coming into contact with 
anyone with Covid-19. D also said that it had two employees who were considered 
vulnerable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ds business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ds claim.
The relevant term in Ds policy covers loss as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises
The policy definition of premises is The premises owned, occupied, leased or rented 
by the Policyholder as stated in the Schedule.
RSA seems to accept that G was displaying symptoms of Covid-19 so Im not going to 
comment on that further. I understand RSA does not think D has sufficiently 
demonstrated that G was at its premises while displaying the symptoms however, I 
dont believe that I need to make a finding on that. Thats because even if I was to find 
that its most likely G was at Ds premises while displaying symptoms, I believe that 
RSA has fairly decided that there was not a closure or restrictions placed on Ds 
premises as a result of Covid-19 manifesting at its premises. 
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 set out 
which businesses were required to close in March 2020. Ds business was not one of 
the businesses required to close by the regulations. This is also evidenced by D 
advising its employees that it had decided to close for a couple of weeks and that it 
reopened in May 2020 which was before the regulations allowed the businesses which 
were required to close to reopen. I have not been provided with evidence of any other 
restriction that required D to close. As D wasnt required to close I dont think there was 
a closure of the premises so I have also considered whether there were restrictions 
placed on the premises.
1 
https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/ukgwa/20200318201910/https:/www.gov.uk/government/p
ublications/guidance-to-employers-and-businesses-about-covid-19/guidance-for-employers-and-
businesses-on-coronavirus-covid-19The regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would have likely had an impact 
on businesses that were able to remain open. For example, the restrictions on movement 
that required people to remain at home without a reasonable excuse. But it was a 
reasonable excuse for someone to travel to work where it was not reasonably practical for 
that person to work from home. So I dont think these restrictions were the cause of Ds loss. 
I also dont think these were a restriction on Ds premises as they related to people rather 
than the premises. 
D said it was following Government advice and daily briefings so needed to send all of its 
employees home to self-isolate as they had come into contact with G. It said this meant that 
the business had to close. D also said it had some employees which were considered 
vulnerable.
The advice of the Government at this time was for the people to self-isolate if anyone in their 
household had symptoms of Covid-19. However, G is a business rather than a household 
and on 18 March 2020 the UK Governments advice to businesses was that they did not 
need to send staff home if they had come into contact with someone with symptoms of 
Covid-19. So, while I can understand that the vulnerable employees might have not been 
able to attend work I dont think the other employees coming into contact with G meant that 
the business was required to close. And, even if Im wrong about this, I dont think that the 
employees self-isolating would reasonably be considered a closure or restriction placed on 
Ds premises as it applies to the employees rather than the premises. Therefore I dont think 
I can fairly require RSA to pay Ds claim on that basis. 
I have considered Ds point that its employees were unable to socially distance in the van 
but I dont think that means there was a restriction placed on the insured premises as the 
vans are not part of the insured premises as such and, even if they were, the guidance 
related to people not premises anyway. Additionally, the guidance around social-distancing 
was just this; guidance. It was not a restriction placed on premises.
In any event, ultimately, I think the cause of Ds loss was its decision to close its business 
and I dont think that means that its loss was due to a closure or restrictions placed on the 
premises as a result of a notifiable disease manifesting at the premises. I do appreciate that 
homeowners did not want people working in their homes and that the consequence of this 
was that D had less work. But Ds policy does not provide cover for this. As a result, I dont 
consider it would be fair for me to require RSA to cover Ds claim on this basis.
I recognise that D did what it thought was needed in the circumstances at the time but I dont 
think its loss is covered by its policy. And I dont think that RSA is treating D unfairly by not 
paying a claim that the policy doesnt cover. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome D was hoping for but, having considered everything very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Ds claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman