DRN-1406462
The complaint
P is a limited company. Its director, Mr T, complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA 
unfairly reversed a credit to Ps account following a chargeback claim.
What happened
P sells goods online. It receives payments from its customers through its account with 
PayPal. 
P processed an order for two items on 12 July 2019, with a card payment of £1,679.98 
processed online. Mr T says the items were shipped to the buyer the same day.
Later that month, PayPal received notification from the cardholders card issuer that they 
were seeking a reversal of the payment on the basis that they hadnt authorised it (in a 
process known as a chargeback). P provided some evidence to PayPal to challenge this. 
But that proved unsuccessful, and the payment was returned to the cardholder on 14 August 
2019. P was also charged a £14 processing fee.
P complained to PayPal. It said that under the terms of its User Agreement, the transaction 
was covered by PayPals seller protection policy in the event of a reversal due to an 
unauthorised payment. As it had fulfilled the order as instructed, it said PayPal should cover 
the transaction and return the processing fee. But PayPal stood by its decision, so Mr T 
referred the matter to us.
In its submission to us, PayPal said that this transaction wasnt covered by the seller 
protection policy as P had delivered the items to an address that differed from that of the 
transaction details. It referred us to tracking details from the shipping company which 
showed delivery to a different country.
Our investigator looked into things but thought that PayPal had relied on incorrect 
information. He noted that the shipping company recycled its reference numbers  and the 
tracking details that PayPal had cited now actually related to a different transaction 
altogether. So disregarding this, he said there was no evidence that P had sent the goods to 
a different address  while Mr T had been able to provide other information to show that P 
had sent the items to the address specified in the transaction details. 
So our investigator didnt think it was fair for PayPal to have declined cover under the seller 
protection policy on these grounds. Subject to any other conditions that may apply, he 
thought PayPal should reimburse the £1,679.98 and £14 fee, and pay P £100 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused.
Mr T accepted our investigators view but PayPal didnt. It said that the tracking information 
provided by Mr T didnt meet its requirements as set out in the User Agreement. It said it 
wasnt a shipping company, so it relied on the information available on Ps shipping 
companys website. 
So with no resolution, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as our investigator and for much 
the same reasons. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Under PayPals User Agreement, it says that sellers may be eligible for reimbursement 
under its seller protection policy in certain circumstances. This may apply when a buyer 
claims that they didnt authorise the payment, or when a transaction is reversed because of 
a successful chargeback or payment reversal by the buyer (or their bank). Here, the buyer 
said they didnt authorise the payment in question and ultimately the payment was reversed 
through a chargeback. So Mr T believes he is covered by the policy.
In its submission to us, PayPal said it declined Mr Ts claim for cover under the policy as P 
hadnt complied with this term of the User Agreement:
You must ship the item to the shipping address on the transaction details 
page in your PayPal account for the transaction.
But like our investigator, Ive found that P has provided significant documentary evidence to 
show that it did dispatch the goods to the shipping address on the transaction details page 
for this transaction. It has explained its process  which is largely automated  for extraction 
from its warehouse and onward delivery. Its shown us screenshots from the systems of both 
those providers, that consistently show the correct delivery address  in other words, that it 
matches that of the transaction details as required by PayPal. And its also shown us 
confirmation of delivery that was provided by the delivery company. 
The only evidence to the contrary that PayPal has provided is the tracking details from the 
delivery companys website. And that does show a different address  indeed a different 
country  for the delivery. But it also seems most likely that this is a result of the tracking 
reference number having been reused by the delivery company: as it shows a shipment 
collected from Mumbai on 25 September 2019 and delivered to Bangladesh a few days later. 
Putting the same reference into the tracker now will again yield a completely different result 
(in fact it yields three different transactions over the last month alone). It is common practice 
for delivery companies to recycle their reference numbers, and the one in question confirms 
as much on its website:
We handle over two million shipments a month. That means the eight- or 
nine-digit numbers used to track parcels get reused every three or four 
weeks.So bearing in mind that PayPal were reviewing this information two months after P has 
shown it dispatched the goods, I think its most likely that the tracking reference had been 
reused and no longer related to Ps shipment at all. And so I dont think that the information 
PayPal has relied on is relevant in determining whether P shipped the goods to the correct 
address. From the evidence it has provided, I think it has shown that it did ship the goods to 
the correct address as required under the terms of the User Agreement.
In its response to our investigators assessment, PayPal highlighted the further postage 
requirements in order to be eligible for seller protection. For protection for unauthorised 
payment, it says that  for goods such as those at issue here  proof of postage or proof of 
delivery is required. And it says that proof of postage must be online or physical 
documentation from a postal company that includes all of the following:
a) A status of shipped (or equivalent) and the date of postage.
b) The recipients address, showing at least the city/county or postcode (or international 
equivalent).
c) Official acceptance from the shipping company (for example, a postmark, a receipt, 
or online tracking information). Or, if you have Proof of Delivery then you do not need 
Proof of Postage.
Weve provided PayPal with the information that P has sent us but it hasnt specified why 
this doesnt meet these criteria. Rather it has reiterated that it relies on the information on the 
shipping companys website. I can see why that might be its default option but clearly that 
didnt obtain the right result here  and is only likely to be helpful if reviewed within a certain 
(limited) timeframe. I dont think its reasonable to disregard all the other evidence that P has 
been able to provide to support their position.
As Ive set out above, P has evidenced that the goods were dispatched to the correct 
address and has evidence of the postage from its logistics company and proof of delivery 
from the delivery company. 
And so taking all of this into account, I think the transaction met the requirements to be 
covered by the seller protection policy  so PayPal acted unfairly in declining to reimburse P 
the reversed payment. 
To put things right then, it follows that I think it should reimburse P now. I dont think it needs 
to refund the £14 processing fee though, as I understand this related to the chargeback  the 
costs were passed on from the buyers bank and were not within PayPals control. And I 
cant see such costs are covered by the seller protection policy, which states that the full 
purchase amount is protected  with no reference to a refund of other fees or charges 
connected to the chargeback claim itself.
P has also been without the funds for some time now. To compensate it for this, PayPal 
should add 8% simple interest to the amount from the date it was debited from Ps account 
to the date of settlement. P has also been put to some avoidable inconvenience in trying to 
recover the funds from PayPal, which declined to engage in a meaningful way until the 
complaint was referred to us. So for the trouble P was put to, PayPal should also pay it 
compensation of £100.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require PayPal Europe Sarl & 
Cie, SCA to:
Reimburse P the reversed payment of £1,679.98;
Pay 8% simple interest on the above amount from the date it was debited from Ps 
account to the date of settlement; and
Pay P compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman