DRN-3366704
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt offer her a fixed interest rate on her 
mortgage. As a result, she has been left paying the standard variable rate (SVR) and 
describes herself as a mortgage prisoner. 
She is represented in the matter by Mr C.
What happened
Mrs C has a mortgage with Barclays. This was initially on a fixed interest rate which ended in
2005. At this point, she asked for another fixed rate but was declined by Barclays as the
property was let out.
Mrs C tried to change her mortgage to a buy to let mortgage but was told that she didnt
meet the eligibility criteria.
She says that shes a mortgage prisoner as shes been unable to take out a new interest
rate product and has been paying the SVR since 2005  which is much more expensive.
In 2020, Mrs C complained to Barclays. It responded to say that, whilst the complaint had
been made too late, it would investigate it because Mr and Mrs C had seen recent media
coverage relating to mortgage prisoners. Ultimately, Barclays didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs C referred the matter to this service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld for the time period that this service is able to consider. As Mrs C disagreed with 
the conclusions reached by our investigator, the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
I issued a previous decision setting out that this service is only able to consider the 
complaint about not being offered a fixed interest rate deal from 23 May 2014 until the 
complaint was made in 2020. This is the period which Ill now consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Barclays contact notes and Ive not seen that Mrs C asked for a different rate 
over the period from 2014 to 2020. Mr C has said that the mortgage remained on the SVR 
after she asked to switch in 2005 but was declined and that they tried to access another rate 
in 2008 but were declined again.
I can only consider the matter since 2014. Over this time period, I cant see that she asked 
for a new interest rate. If she did ask then I would expect Barclays to respond appropriately 
to her request and to see if there were better rates that would be available. But as Ive not 
seen any evidence that a request was made over the period from 2014, until the complaint in 
2020 I dont think it acted unfairly.
Ive thought about the relevant regulation. There were not any rules that required mortgage 
lenders to pro-actively contact borrowers when cheaper rates were available. And in this 
case, as it would appear that Mrs C was not eligible for a new rate  I wouldnt expect 
Barclays to contact her unless this changed.
Barclays has explained that it doesnt offer better rates to borrowers with residential 
mortgages that have let out their properties. I dont consider this unfair. Its for a lender to set 
its own criteria and let out properties generally present a higher risk, so some lenders do not 
offer better rates. Ive also not seen anything to suggest that Mrs C was treated differently to 
other customers in the same position that she was in. 
Whilst I can understand Mrs Cs frustrations and the difficult position she found herself in, I 
dont think Barclays did anything to stand in her way if she wanted to re-mortgage to another 
lender and so, whilst I can see the arguments presented to say that she is a mortgage 
prisoner I dont consider that this was due to unfair treatment from Barclays. 
Mr C has explained that she was unable to change to a buy to let mortgage with Barclays, or 
other lenders, due to her income and the type of property. So it seems to me that she was 
unable to access a better rate as a result of her wider circumstances  rather than unfair 
treatment from Barclays. 
Im aware that Mrs C was recently offered a better rate when she contacted Barclays. Mr C 
has said they decided not to opt for the rate due to the amount outstanding and short term 
left on the mortgage. I can understand this, but I think this shows that its likely that, had she 
asked for a different rate over this period, Barclays would have looked to see what was 
available. But as no rate was asked for over this time, and as Ive explained  Barclays was 
not required to contact Mrs C to offer one - I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. 
I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C but I dont think that Barclays 
has treated her unfairly under the scope of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman