DRN-3031115
complaint
This complaint is about two regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out in alongside a mortgage and a further advance in 1991 and 1994. Mrs S says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Lloyds had to make it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI. Due to the length 
of time that has passed, theres no longer much evidence from the time of the sales, and 
I dont think this is unreasonable. Lloyds has assumed that Mrs S took out PPI at the 
same time as the mortgage in 1991 and I think this is more likely. Theres no PPI 
application form available from either sale. In the meeting about the further advance in 
1994, Mrs S ticked that she was interested in hearing more about the PPI, and the 
internal notes from the advisor indicate that PPI was sold during the meeting. Mrs S 
hasnt made any specific complaints about being made to feel like she had to take the 
PPI policies or that she didnt consent to taking them out. And with nothing to make me 
think otherwise, I think its more likely Lloyds followed its normal procedure and 
explained the PPI was an optional product and gained Mrs S consent before applying 
them to the mortgage and further advance. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example Mrs S was eligible for the cover 
and she had no sick pay or savings available to her so she had no protection if she was 
unable to work for any reason. And I note that Mrs S did make a successful claim on the 
policy in 1992/1993  so I think this shows she had a need for the policy.  
There was nothing about Mrs Ss employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Mrs S says she had medical conditions some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended it. I say this because the back-pain Mrs S has mentioned was occurred 
around 25 years before the policy and she hasnt mentioned it affecting her at the time of 
the sale. And shes mentioned stress around five years before the first sale, but she 
hasnt mentioned having to take time off work as a result of this, or that it was affecting 
her at the time of the sale.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs S as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs S 
would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs S would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman