DRN-3221804
The complaint
Mr L complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr L was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn.
Mr L experienced some issues with the car. These included a wobbly gearstick, faulty wheel 
bearing and scratches and dents.
Mr L reported the issues to the dealership and contacted Moneybarn. The dealership 
inspected the car and carried out repairs. Mr L contacted Moneybarn again and said the 
repairs hadnt been successful and raised further issues including exposed wires around the 
battery, a faulty headlight and engine oil pressure issues.
In July 2021 the car broke down and was recovered to the dealership. Repairs were carried 
out to the exhaust. 
Mr L contacted Moneybarn, who arranged for an independent inspection. The inspection 
said that there were no faults which would have been present at the point of supply. Based 
on the inspection report, Moneybarn refused Mr Ls request to reject the car.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although there was a fault with 
the car, there wasnt enough evidence to show that the fault was present at the point of 
supply, or that it had been caused by an unsuccessful repair.
Mr L didnt agree. He said hed experienced issues with oil consumption in the first 6 months 
and he didnt think this was due to wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L but I agree with the investigators view. Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file but in this decision, Ill focus on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention a specific point, its not because Ive failed to think about it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome
Mr L acquired the car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result, this 
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says that a car should be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of 
satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would regard as 
acceptable, taking into account the age and mileage of the car, the price paid and other 
relevant circumstances.
At the time the car was supplied to Mr L it was over 6 years old and had covered around 
53,000 miles. Id expect a second hand car to have a degree of wear and tear and to require 
repirs more often than, say, a brand new car. Satisfactory quality includes durability, which 
means that the components of a car should last for a reasonable amount of time. How long 
that is depends on a number of factors.
Mr L contacted Moneybarn within the first 6 months to tell them about the issues he was 
experiencing with the car. Whilst I dont doubt that these issues occurred, its to be expected 
that a car of this age and mileage would have soe wear and tear and that parts will require 
repair and replacement. The fact that there were some issues doesnt mean that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
In June 2021 Mr L reported issued with exposed battery wires and low oil pressure. 
Moneybarn arranged an inspection of the car to try and establish what the fault was and 
whether the fault had been present at the point of supply.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that a car should be of satisfactory quality when 
supplied, taking into account the cars age and mileage. If a fault occurs in the first 30 days, 
and the consumer is able to evidence an inherent fault, the consumer can exercise a short 
term right to reject the car. if a fault occurs in the first 6 months, the supplying dealership is 
allowed one opportunity to repair it. 
Ive looked at the independent inspection report. The inspector didnt find any faults with the 
battery wires, or the accelerator switch or the headlight. The inspector noted that the exhaust 
was blowing and that the oil level was lower. He said that the exhaust blowing was due to 
wear and tear and that he didnt think there were any faults with the car at the point of supply 
because of the time and mileage which had elapsed since then.
I can see that the car was taken back to the supplying dealer after the independent 
inspection. The dealer replaced the exhaust but as unable to find an oil leak. It road tested 
the car over a 4 day period and found no loss of oil. 
Mr L obtained a further diagnostic report in November 2021 because the engine 
management light had illuminated, and he had to keep topping up the oil. The diagnostic 
report stated that the engine oil consumption was too high, which had caused deterioration 
of the catalytic converter.
Ive taken all of the available evidence into account. Im satisfied that theres a fault with the 
car. However, Im not persuaded that the fault with the oil pressure and the catalytic 
converter was present at the point of supply. The independent inspection report didnt find an 
oil leak or a fault with the catalytic converter. Ive already said that Id expect a car of this age 
and mileage to have some wear and tear to component parts. At the point of supply the car 
had covered around 53,000 miles., By the time the fault with the catalytic converter was 
diagnosed, Mr L had covered a further 10,901 miles in the car. if there had been a fault with 
the catalytic converter at the point of supply, I think this would have presented itself much 
sooner. I also think that, if there had been a fault with the catalytic converter or an oil leak at 
the point of supply, the independent inspection would have identified this.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. I think kits more likely that the issues are due to general wear and tear, so I wont be asking Moneybarn to pay for repairs or accept a rejection.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman