DRN-2858124
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) mishandled fund 
switches in their investment portfolio, specifically because the adviser ignored their 
instructions and completed investments that they didnt authorise. They also complain that 
he switched them to a different adviser as a point of contact, which they were unhappy with.
Mr R says SJPs actions led to a £33,200 loss, and it ought to compensate them accordingly.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have an ongoing investment relationship with SJP dating back to 2007. They 
have an investment portfolio comprising several ISAs, Mr Rs Unit Trust and his Retirement 
Account. They were introduced to SJP by an adviser from Allard Associates, but in 2012, 
this advice relationship was switched to Mr S of Napier Sharpe Wealth Management, an 
appointed representative of SJP.  
In 2016, prompted by the forthcoming Brexit referendum, Mr and Mrs R instructed Mr S to 
move their invested funds back into cash, as they felt they were due to experience uncertain 
financial times and didnt currently want their investments to have exposure to the markets. 
The funds from the various investments were placed into SJPs Money Market Fund (MMF).    
In 2019, Mr R spoke with Mr S with regards to reinvestment of their funds in the MMF back 
into a mix of UK and global equity funds. Mr S explained that the financial markets could 
potentially benefit from the impact of the forthcoming general election.
Mr R therefore met with Mr S on 11 November 2019. Mr S followed their meeting up with an 
email of 15 November 2019 in which he set out his recommendations regarding inheritance 
tax considerations, the existing MMF funds and investment of new funds. 
Thereafter, a series of emails were sent between the parties about Mr and Mrs Rs next 
steps, and Mr R clarified that he wished to focus on the uninvested funds in the three 
accounts at that time.  
Mr S issued a recommendation letter to Mr and Mrs R on 21 November 2019 further to IHT 
discussions noted in the recent meeting. He recorded how Mr and Mrs R had received 
£2,000,000 from a property sale, taking their combined estate to over £5,000,000. Mr S 
made various recommendations about that, including Discounted Gift Plans and Loan Plans 
for both Mr and Mrs R as a means to mitigating IHT and Chargeable Lifetime Transfer 
liabilities. He then went into detail about charges for the recommendations.
In terms of investment strategy regarding the previously invested funds, Mr S noted how he 
also propose[s] that you invest funds from our Money Markets account to enable multiple 
market entries during what may be a volatile time over the next few weeks with the UK 
election and Chinese/US trade discussion ongoing. 
On 5 December 2019, Mr R emailed Mr S to discuss the possibility of reinvesting some of 
the funds in the MMF following the ongoing discussions between the parties via email and 
telephone. Initially Mr R suggested investing 25% gradually. He then proposed 33%, again 
split into to 10% investments and a further 13% investment on 11 December 2019. However, 
he set out a clear disclaimer that he did not wish to do so until after the general election. 
On 13 December 2019, Mr R and Mr S spoke again via telephone and text message about a 
further change to the amount invested. Based on the text message exchange, Mr S invested 
the remainder of the MMF as per his original recommendation the previous month.  
In February 2020, Mr R complained. He recently reviewed his year-end valuation information 
and realised that all of the capital from the MMF had been reinvested into global funds. He 
said he had checked all of his records and there was no record of any conversation with Mr 
S instructing him to invest further monies beyond the 33%. 
He said he and Mrs R had been away on holiday at the time, but Mr S had not acted 
correctly. His intention was not to invest all of the funds in the MMF, but 33% as agreed. He 
also raised additional concerns about the actions of Mr S in relation to the switch to the new 
adviser, which Mr R had objected to in May 2019.  By this time, Mr and Mrs Rs investments 
had suffered from market volatility due to the onset of the coronavirus pandemic. 
 
In April 2020, SJP rejected the complaint. It said Mr R spoke with Mr S on 13 December 
2019 to confirm he wished to place all of the uninvested funds in the MMF into the same 
mixed income, property and equity funds across Mr Rs ISA, Unit Trust and Retirement 
Account. This was following the results of the general election and confirmed to Mr R in 
letters issued on 13 and 16 December 2019 respectively. 
It therefore did not agree that the fund switches had been made without Mr Rs consent, as 
he had given express confirmation of his wishes on 13 December. SJP also said it had not 
seen evidence to suggest the handover from Mr S to the new adviser was handled 
incorrectly or that Mr R wasnt given appropriate support from either adviser. 
Mr R sent further concerns to SJP in April 2020, after he had undertaken further 
investigations himself in response to the complaint. He said it had been his preference 
dating back to 2015 to drip monies into the market rather than undertake one single 
investment, and Mr S knew or should have known this.  
He also made it clear that he didnt want to include UK funds before the general election, but 
despite this, Mr S proposed a 33% investment. Mr R said he was concerned about Brexit, 
and other domestic matters having an effect on the performance of UK-based funds. He did 
agree to the 33% but only in increments, as before. He wanted to wait until the election, after 
which hed have considered investing more in UK markets depending on the outcome. 
As far as he was aware, he left to go overseas for a month with the understanding that nine 
incremental investments would be made across his pension, Unit Trust and the family ISAs - 
save for some funds earmarked for his daughters wedding. Instead the investments had 
been made in full, despite SJP not having undertaken any assessment of his risk tolerance 
since 2013. 
However, SJP remained of the same view that Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should not 
succeed. In June 2020, it said it had since clarified that the confirmation from Mr R came via 
text message. It relayed the exchange had between Mr R and Mr S that day, and felt Mr S 
had acted on a reasonable instruction from Mr R.    
SJP also said Mr R had held several discussions with Mr S in the run up to the December 
2019 general election about the impact of the outcome on the markets and its view was that 
Mr R had been heavily involved in the investment strategy he decided to implement. As such, it could not agree that Mr R was unaware of what Mr S was proposing or that Mr R had 
disagreed with any of his recommendations.
Finally, it noted there had been some confusion over early withdrawal charges (EWCs)  
Mr S was referring to Mr Rs ISAs and Unit Trust when relaying information about those 
charges. However, SJP appreciated Mr S could have been clearer in explaining that Mr Rs 
Retirement Account did have an EWC. On that basis it reconfirmed that SJP was prepared 
to waive that fee. It otherwise did not believe Mr Ss actions were incorrect. 
In the interim, Mr and Mrs Rs investments were switched back to the MMF. Mr R went on to 
instruct SJP to close all three accounts and these were actioned in June, July and 
September 2020.  
Mr R remained unhappy with the outcome in the final response letter and referred his 
complaint to this service. He made some further additional comments, noting that:
if SJP had been unsure of what his instructions were, it should have contacted him 
by telephone rather than relying on a text message;
the funds chosen by SJPs adviser presented too much risk;
the adviser may have been financially motivated to promote the funds he did and 
SJP has not confirmed if this was the case;
he was not an experienced investor;
Mr S had suggested to him in November 2019 that he had made the wrong choice to 
place his funds into cash in 2016 and that he had lost out on investment growth of 
some 20% - those arent the actions of an investor with any relevant experience;
the adviser issued confusing information about EWCs from the accounts within the 
investment portfolio;
for a period of time, the second adviser became Mr and Mrs Rs primary contact at 
SJP without their knowledge or consent;
handling of the complaint itself was inadequate  SJP first suggested it called Mr R 
then it was able to later find evidence of text messages;
in particular, SJPs manner in providing answers to the complaint was indifferent, 
arrogant and totally dismissive of their concerns;
it took SJP four months to provide the evidence of the text messages relied upon;
the adviser knew that he was going to be abroad for an extended period to the end of 
January 2020;
on that basis, it would have been even more important to have contacted him by 
some additional means;
that his and Mrs Rs funds had remained in cash for three years ought to have 
dictated that their risk profile had changed and he was in fact a cautious investor 
rather than a medium risk investor as had been suggested;
with reflection, he now questions whether the advice letter of November 2019 was in 
his and Mrs Rs best interests;
Mr S had lied about the second adviser - he was looking after Mr and Mrs Rs affairs 
in 2018, when they communicated with SJP about two of their junior ISAs, set up for 
their grandchildren;
they have now incurred further costs of moving their funds to a new financial adviser;
additional compensation to the loss should also be considered  firstly for the fees 
paid to the new adviser but also for the upset and stress they have been caused. 
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint but he did not think it should 
succeed. He said whilst he recognised Mr and Mrs R were concerned about the advisers 
actions in December 2019, he concluded that the full investment was undertaken based on 
Mr Rs text message instructions which referred to the advice of the previous month  that being to invest 100% of the money in the MMF. Though this might not have been Mr Rs 
intention, the investigator did not think SJP made a mistake in believing it was. 
Further, he felt the adviser had reasonably explained to Mr R in ongoing email 
correspondence about both EWCs and the switch to the new adviser as a primary point of 
contact  a decision which was reversed after Mr R objected to it. The investigator did not 
think SJP had done anything wrong, and the complaint should therefore not be upheld.  
Mr R said he and Mrs R disagreed and wanted the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. He made a number of further submissions, noting:
he had looked back through his phone, and there had been no previous exchange 
whereby he had given instructions in that manner  these were previously done by 
telephone or email;
he has now sought advice from a different financial adviser;
for SJP to suggest he was a sophisticated investor was unreasonable and untrue and 
this has been highlighted by other cases in the media;
the adviser was aware that some of the funds in the MMF should never have been 
invested, as Mr and Mrs R wanted to retain access to these for their daughters 
wedding;
Mr S had only ever suggested the second adviser would be assisting him  so when 
he tried to place that adviser as the primary contact, Mr and Mrs R became 
concerned and this was the catalyst for them leaving Mr S;
he and Mrs R had not actually instructed Mr S in the first instance, their investments 
were transferred to him by a previous SJP authorised adviser;
he and Mrs R firmly believe that the adviser did not act fairly and breached regulatory 
requirements by undertaking the investment, which differed from their previous 
communication history of using email or telephone calls which they believe sets a 
clear precedent as to their preferences and ability to make such instructions. 
SJP didnt make any further comments. The complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this complaint awaited an ombudsmans 
decision.  
I note Mr R has gone to a considerable effort in corresponding with both SJP and our 
service. I also note hes given detailed comments of his view on his and Mrs Rs complaint, 
and I thank him for these especially at what I understand to be a difficult time due to ill 
health. 
Though I have reviewed everything before me, I wont be addressing each point raised by Mr 
R; my remit is to make findings on what I believe to be fair and reasonable to both parties in 
the circumstances. I will therefore set out what I believe are the central issues in this 
complaint. Having done so, I dont believe this complaint should succeed.
To be clear, I am looking at the complaint that has been put to SJP and answered in its final 
response  and that comprises two parts, the issues around the 2019 investment and Mr S 
switching advisers without consent. In his referral letter to this service, Mr R has also said further matters have come to my 
attention and I would like the Ombudsman to also look at the charges made by SJP over the 
years. Mr R contends all fees he has been charged by SJP should be refunded to him. This 
was borne out of Mr R discussing this complaint with a particular media outlet. A type of 
publication was issued in July 2020 and contained SJPs response to Mr Rs concerns, 
which detailed the total cost of the various adviser fees he had paid for 13 years. Thereafter 
some discussions were had with SJP in ongoing correspondence regarding fees. 
However, I am not considering this aspect of Mr and Mrs Rs concerns about fees paid 
throughout the advice relationship within this decision. That aspect has not been put to SJP 
in the first instance as a distinct point of complaint. SJP issued a final response letter dated 8 
April 2020. That letter was restricted to the two complaint points I have set out above.
Whilst SJP has given a view on Mr Rs fee request (which it disagreed with), it has not dealt 
with this matter as a complaint, and I do not take the view that our remit allows for that 
additional complaint to be included here  its a distinct matter. Therefore, if Mr and Mrs R 
wish to make a further complaint about advice fees paid to SJP since 2007, they need to 
direct that to SJP so it can investigate and provide its findings to them. SJP also confirmed 
the same in an email from the complaints handler during April 2020, where he explained new 
issues would need to be pursued as a separate complaint.  
Having considered all of the ongoing correspondence between the parties carefully, I dont 
believe Mr S acted unreasonably in relying on the instructions from Mr R on 13 December 
2019. Its clear that the parties had undertaken ongoing discussions at length regarding the 
market conditions, notably in the UK and the US as affected by political and social matters. 
Both parties have supplied many years worth of emails to this service and discussions of 
this nature happened at relevant times as regards political forces on UK and US markets. 
Mr R clearly relied on Mr S professional advice into order to undertake a strategic fund 
selection to take advantage of market conditions when he and Mrs R (who was copied into 
key emails) wanted to reinvest their funds. 
However, Mr R also retained a final say in investment approach. This is evident from the 
email chain exchanged in February 2015 whereby Mr R discussed moving money in the 
three accounts back to cash, with reinvestment again in the future. He also noted how I 
think we need to discuss whether we drip feed or put it all in at once. I believe, on balance 
that Mr R appreciated that his investments could (and had previously) be undertaken either 
in traches or in one go  and that was at his behest, after receipt of advice from Mr S.  
To that end, following the discussions in November 2019 and the following 
recommendations letter issued by Mr S, Mr R confirmed by email on 5 December 2019, 
How about 25% and see how we go. We can always invest more in the next few weeks. 
Again, I believe Mr R was likely aware of the potential to invest all of the funds in the MMF, 
but this depended heavily on his view of the forthcoming general election. 
On the morning after the election, the following messages were exchanged via text 
messaging:
Mr R - Should I invest the rest today in line with your original recommendations 
including UK
I am away until end of January and don't want to leave it until then if market is going 
up
What is your advice
Mr S - Hi [Mr R], a good result for the markets. Yes, original recommendation for the rest. Phase 1 trade deal for US/China looks highly probable as Trump hopes to 
shrug-off articles of impeachment.
US large cap will rally now into Q1 [2020]
Mr R - Invest the rest today I suppose in line with your original letter
Mr S then offers a confirmation with a personal note about Mr R being away from the country 
and comments about an entirely unrelated pension matter. 
Taking the email exchange in context  I dont believe Mr S acted unfairly in taking Mr Rs 
instruction to invest the rest, that being the remaining 65% across the three accounts as 
cash in the MMF. Given Mr Rs confirmation about looking to invest more, his reaction to the 
general election (that it had not been a marginal result or a hung parliament that he had 
previously been cautious about), and the fact the first 35% of funds was already invested, Mr 
S made a reasonable interpretation of investing the remaining 65%. He therefore actioned 
that request as required and sent relevant letters the same day and the next working day. 
Many submissions have been made about the fact Mr Rs instruction came via text 
message. I know Mr R feels this was an anomaly and so SJP shouldnt have accepted it. 
SJPs policy allows for instructions by message, so I dont believe its necessary for me to 
comment on the acceptability of different types of communication methods. 
Looking at this exchange in the round, noting Mr R had been talking to Mr S for the last 
month or so regarding the investments, I cant see why Mr S should disregard the instruction 
merely because it was sent as a text message. The reason for that was because Mr R was 
travelling. To that end, Mr S has sent this service other examples of instructions by text 
message at times when Mr R was undertaking international travel or residing overseas.  
That Mr R did not register the investment switches had taken place was not the fault of SJP 
or Mr S. That was affected by his return from his overseas travel, and the fluctuation in the 
fund value thereafter was caused by the market volatility experienced at the onset of the 
global pandemic.  
I also realise Mr R feels that during the ongoing exchange about the reinvestment, proper 
consideration wasnt given for his attitude to risk. The funds used for the 35% were the same 
funds mixed across a diversification of seven fund types that had been used for the previous 
three accounts in their entirety between 2012 and 2016. 
However, in his correspondence, Mr S did highlight the risk profile of the fund allocation 
which was a continuance of the profile previously agreed prior to Mr and Mrs R moving their 
accounts to cash. Though I know Mr R explains that he felt he did not have relevant 
investment experience and that his circumstances in respect of his attitude to risk had since 
changed, Ive not seen evidence of that such that Mr S could have ascertained this prior to 
the discussions had in November  at which risk was discussed.  
In the circumstances, I dont consider the return to the mix of funds previously used for the 
investment portfolio was unfair or unreasonable to recommend. I believe SJPs adviser did 
reassess Mr and Mrs Rs financial circumstances and considered their relevant experience, 
including their tolerance to risk and their ability to bear any losses in this type of investment. 
Mr Rs communications and wider stockbroking activities also suggest that he had a good 
understanding of how the investment portfolio operated, both previously and with the 
reinvestment of 2019.   
In terms of a sum of money to be ringfenced in Mrs Rs ISA, Mr S did not hold back a 
proportion of funds from the investment. But, no clear instruction was given about that. Mr R emailed Mr S to confirm that he and Mrs R would want to draw on that money at some point 
in the future. But it wasnt quantified; it was suggested prospectively and this discussion 
crossed with instructions to invest across all of the ISAs in the MMF. 
The evidence sets out that Mr S took that email to mean Mr R would, at some point, identify 
the value of the possible prospective withdrawal in order to identify those funds for future 
wedding purposes so other funds could continue to work tax effectively within the ISAs. But 
that did not cut across the current advice or instruction to invest those funds within the 
accounts in the MMF. I dont find that to be an unreasonable interpretation of the position, 
nor do I believe that it materially affected Mr Ss response to the text message instruction of 
13 December 2019.  
The other aspect of the complaint concerns the involvement of a second adviser from 2017 
to 2019, during the point at which Mr and Mrs Rs investments had returned to the cash 
MMF. Though Mr and Mrs R were assigned to this second adviser as point of contact, this 
arrangement was not successful and Mr R raised clear concerns about it. 
This service doesnt act in the capacity of a regulator  that function is one operated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. For that reason, I wont make findings on the legitimacy of 
internal business operations by Mr S, Napier Sharpe or SJP in respect of personnel.   
However, I can consider the impact of any such decision and if any action or omission was 
unreasonable in the context of undertaking regulated activities, such as financial advice 
about an investment. Its clear that the second advisers actions were not to provide 
financial advice or support in a sole capacity  he was providing ongoing assistance, but all 
emails and communications were copied to Mr S. 
Mr S sought confirmation from Mr and Mrs R in early 2018 if they were happy with the new 
arrangement. Mr R replied the following year, in May 2019, to confirm they were not. It was 
at this time that Mr S apologised, reconfirmed that the second adviser was assisting and 
they had not been switched to him. From that time, Mr S reverted to the sole point of liaison 
for Mr and Mrss Rs wealth management matters. 
Though I can see that the relationship between Mr R and Mr S began to deteriorate in 2019, 
I do not consider that Mr S switched Mr and Mrs R to another adviser without their consent  
that didnt happen. Though he acted alongside Mr S, it wasnt without his oversight. On that 
basis, I cant uphold this aspect of the complaint. And I feel Mr Ss apology was a sufficient 
recompense in the circumstances for the confusion or upset that may have arisen from this.  
Finally, I realise Mr R is also unhappy about the manner in which SJP handled the 
complaint, which he believes was inadequate on a number of grounds. However, I havent 
looked at that further since complaints about complaint handling do not fall within the 
jurisdiction of this service; we look at actions or omissions regarding businesses conducting 
certain regulated activities. For the reasons Ive given above, I dont find SJPs appointed 
representative to have acted unfairly in the particular circumstances of this complaint.   
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Jo StoreyOmbudsman