DRN-2922251
The complaint
Miss V complains that Vanquis Bank Ltd acted irresponsibly by giving her a credit card when 
she was unemployed and in financial difficulty. 
What happened
In October 2018 Miss V applied for a credit card from Vanquis  they gave her a credit limit 
of £150. She says she was in financial difficulty at the time, and that this wouldve shown on 
her bank statements and credit file.
Miss V says trying to keep up with repayments left her short of money every month. She 
complained to Vanquis that they hadnt carried out enough checks to make sure shed be in 
a position to pay back the money. She asked them to refund the interest and charges shed 
paid and to delete any negative information from her credit record. Miss V says Vanquis 
didnt respond to her email about this  they sent her account to a debt collection company.
Our investigator didnt think Vanquis had acted irresponsibly by giving Miss V a credit card. 
He felt the checks theyd carried out were reasonable and proportionate for a proposed 
credit limit of £150  and that those checks didnt show anything suggesting she wouldnt be 
able to afford the repayments. He said there was no rule saying lenders mustnt lend to 
customers with negative information on their credit file, or that they must ask for bank 
statements. And as he hadnt seen anything to suggest Vanquis knew Miss V was 
unemployed when they granted the credit card, he didnt think theyd acted unfairly.
Miss V disagreed with our investigators view, so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance for lenders to follow  
these can be found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Ive reviewed what this 
required Vanquis to do at the time of Miss Vs credit card application. 
Before giving Miss V a credit card, Vanquis were required to carry out a creditworthiness 
assessment. This meant making reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that shed be able to make repayments in a sustainable way. These checks werent just 
about how likely it was that theyd get their money back  they had to focus on whether the 
repayments would adversely affect Miss Vs financial situation.
 
There was no set list of checks that had to be carried out, but Vanquis had to make sure the 
checks they completed were proportionate in the circumstances. There were a number of 
factors that might affect how extensive these checks needed to be, such as the type and 
amount of credit, the customers financial position, their credit history and other financial 
commitments. 
Vanquis have provided evidence showing they asked questions about Miss Vs income 
during her application, which was concluded over the phone. Ive listened to that call 
recording. Miss V said she thought her personal annual income was around £14,000 before 
tax. She went on to explain that each month she got about £400 in benefit and £800 in 
wages, paid every four weeks. Vanquis call handler calculated this to be around £15,600 
per year. Miss V confirmed this. She said she wasnt expecting any changes to her income 
in the next six months. 
Vanquis have told us they also checked credit reference agency information. This showed 
Miss V had eight active accounts with other financial businesses, with a total outstanding 
balance of £2,100. It showed she had no county court judgments (CCJs) and that it had 
been 16 months since a default had been reported against her.  
Im satisfied that the checks Vanquis carried out were reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances. Ive seen nothing in the information revealed by those checks that shouldve 
given them cause for concern that approving £150 credit would adversely affect Miss Vs 
financial situation. I say this because, although her credit file showed shed previously been 
in default on another agreement, this doesnt necessarily mean any future credit applications 
should automatically be declined. In this case 16 months had passed since a default was 
reported. 
Ive seen no evidence that Miss V told Vanquis she was in financial difficulty. She says that, 
if theyd asked to see her bank statements, theyd have realised she couldnt afford to make 
repayments on a credit card. But I have to bear in mind the personal income Miss V had 
declared, and the relatively low amount of credit Vanquis offered. Im not persuaded that 
more in-depth checks, such as asking for bank statements, shouldve been carried out in this 
case. For these reasons I dont find Vanquis to have acted irresponsibly by approving this 
credit card application.
I appreciate Miss V feels strongly that, as an unemployed single mother, Vanquis shouldnt 
have approved her application. Ive given this careful thought. The evidence confirms that, 
during the application process, Miss V said she didnt live with anybody who had an income. 
But she told them she was receiving around £800 per month in wages as well as benefits  
and I consider it reasonable for Vanquis to rely on this information. So, I cant say theyve 
treated her unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman