DRN-3357128
The complaint
Mr T complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has unfairly voided his policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 22 February 2022. It was my intention to 
come to a different outcome to our investigator, and so I wanted to give both parties the 
chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to take into account.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which forms part of this final decision.
Mr T took out an insurance policy to cover his van with Ageas. The policy began on 14 July 
2020. The policy was purchased through a broker.
At some point during the policy year Mr T began modification work on his van to convert it to 
a campervan.
In March 2021 Mr T was involved in an incident, where he hit a parked vehicle. The third 
party made a claim against Mr Tees policy.
It was during the processing of this claim that Mr T informed Ageas of the conversion. Ageas 
referred the matter to its underwriting department for consideration. It confirmed, that had it 
known about the conversion it would have declined to cover Mr T's van, from when the 
works began, as it was no longer considered a suitable risk under this policy. Ageas wrote to 
Mr T on 4 June 2021 telling him it considered he had misrepresented the facts when taking 
out his insurance and so it had avoided the policy from inception. This means it's as if the 
policy never existed. Ageas refunded Mr Ts premiums in full.
Mr T complaint to Ageas about this, he said he had been open and honest about the 
conversion and had discussed it with both Ageas and the broker during the telephone calls. 
He thought it was unfair of Ageas to avoid his policy in this way as he would have to declare 
this to future insurers, which could have a detrimental effect on his premiums. Ageas 
obtained call recordings from the broker and listen to these along with call recordings 
between itself and Mr T, but said there were no calls were Mr T had discussed the 
conversion. It didn't uphold his complaint, so Mr T brought it to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr T's complaint, in summary they said it wasn't fair for Ageas to say 
Mr T had made a misrepresentation when taking out the policy, as there was no evidence to 
suggest the conversion had happened or begun at that point. To put things right the 
investigator recommended that Ageas should:
pay £350 in compensation
remove any void markers from internal and external databases
pay the difference in premiums with Mr T's new insurer once the policy had been re-
rated as if Mr T hadn't had an avoided policy
Ageas disagreed with the findings and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What I've provisionally decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there's a dispute about what happened, I've based my decision on what I think is 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence. I'll keep my comments to what I think 
is relevant. If I don't comment on a specific point, it's not because I haven't considered it but 
because I don't think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Having read and considered the whole file, I'm currently not intending to uphold this 
complaint, I'll explain.
I accept that when Mr T bought his policy his vehicle was a van and had not undergone any 
modifications at that point. So, given this I also accept there was no misrepresentation at this 
point.
However, Mr T had an ongoing duty to let Ageas know about any changes that would be 
considered significant during the term of the policy. I'm satisfied the is a significant one as 
the purpose of the modifications was to change the use of the vehicle and this fundamentally 
changes the risk to Ageas as the insurer.
The policy confirms the need for Mr T to let it know about any changes with the following 
wording on page 3 of the policy booklet:
Important information
under policy condition 9 on page 20, you must tell us about any of the changes below 
straightaway. If you do not tell us about any changes to the information detailed on 
your proposal, statement of insurance or statement of fact, schedule or certificate of 
motor insurance it may mean that your policy is invalid and that it does not operate in 
the event of the claim
You change the vehicle or its registration number, sell the vehicle or get 
another vehicle


The vehicle is or will be:
Changed from the manufacturers original specification;
This would include:
Changes to the bodywork, such as spoilers or bodykits
Changes to suspension or brakes

Please be aware that this is not a full list of all possible changes  all 
changes made from the manufacturers standard specification must be 
disclosed
This is repeated on page 20 under policy condition 9 changes you must tell us about.
So, Im satisfied Ageas has done what it can to make Mr T aware of his need to let it know 
about any changes, and not telling it would be a breach of the policy terms.
I've considered what Mr T has said about him being open and honest and discussing the 
conversion with Ageas and the broker. Mr T has provided screenshots from his phone 
proving cause took place between him and both businesses. But these calls all took place in 
June 2021, after the claim had begun.
In the call on 2 June between Mr T and Ageas' claim department Mr T advises the operator 
that he didn't realise he had to tell Ageas before he started the work, to make sure it was 
okay.
So, while I appreciate that Mr T didn't try to hide the modifications, I'm satisfied he didn't tell 
Ageas when the work began, as he should have. And therefore, he breached the terms of 
the policy. As such, Ageas were entitled to put a remedy in place for this once it was aware. I 
don't believe in this case the remedy chose was the correct one, but having looked into 
things a bit further, I think it may have left Mr T in a better position than if it had chosen the 
right one, I'll explain.
What happened
Ageas took the following action:
dealt with the third-party claim, at a cost of £1600
avoided Mr Ts policy from inception
returned Mr T's premiums in full
This remedy means that Mr T will have to declare to future insurers that he has had a policy 
avoided.
What should have happened
Ageas should have:
declined the third-party claim  leaving Mr T to settle this himself
cancelled Mr T's policy from the date that he breached the policy terms (when work 
began on the van  this would need to be established and if it can't be then it would 
be from the accident date)
charged Mr T for time on cover up to the date of cancellation
This remedy would mean that Mr T would have a cancellation he would have to declare to 
future insurers. Each insurer rates risks differently, so I can't say for sure if this would have 
the same impact on his premiums as an avoided policy does.So had Ageas chosen the correct remedy, Mr T wouldn't have been refunded his premiums 
in full and would have had to pay the third-party claim himself. Which means if I was to 
instruct Ageas to unwind things Mr T could be in a worse position financially, as he would 
need to pay Ageas for his time on cover.
Given the above I minded to leave things as they are, but if Mr T disagrees and would like 
the correct remedy put in place then he should let me know.
Mr G will need to consider the following know if he chooses this:
he will have to pay Ageas for the time on cover (from policy start date until 
cancellation date)
he will have to declare that he has had a policy cancelled to all future insurers
the potential difference in impact between declaring avoided policy or a cancelled 
policy to future insurers. This is something for Mr T's own judgement and not 
something I can advise on.
I have spoken with Ageas and it has told me it's not intending to recover the third party claim 
costs from Mr T so this isn't something he needs to worry about.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I don't intend to uphold this 
complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mr T has confirmed that he accepts my findings and 
would like to leave things as they are.
Ageas has also responded saying it has no further comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have agreed with my findings, I see no reason from my provisional 
decision and so I won't be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman