DRN-3158315
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them an interest only mortgage and 
that it has made an unfair and excessive profit.
What happened
In 1992, Mr and Mrs took out an interest only mortgage with Cheltenham & Gloucester, 
which is now part of Lloyds. The mortgage was sold by a third-party broker to Mr and Mrs E 
on the basis that two policies would produce a sufficient return to repay the capital balance 
at the end of term. But when the policies matured, they left a shortfall of over £66,000 to 
repay.
Mr and Mrs E said that an interest only mortgage was a risky and flawed product, which 
should not have been sold to them. But they have accepted that they do not want us to 
consider that part of their complaint.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs E refinanced the shortfall on a repayment mortgage. Mr and Mrs E 
complain that:
Lloyds will make an excessive amount of profit from the mortgage. They said that they 
will have paid back over £440,000 by the end of term. That means Lloyds will have made 
over £300,000 in profit. That is a gross, excessive and unfair amount of profit.
Lloyds wont tell them how much they have paid back already and how much they will 
have paid at the end of term.
Lloyds should come to an arrangement now to write off the balance of the mortgage.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs E didnt accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including:
Insufficient weight has been given to their point that the bank has made an excessive 
profit.
The bank has failed to respond to their requests for at least an approximate figure 
showing the amount of money they will have paid from the mortgages inception until it is 
repaid.
Their own estimate is that the bank will have made a profit of over £300,000.
The ombudsman service should be able to form a view whether the profit was excessive 
 and it should formally criticise the bank, especially as it relates to a contract between a 
private individual and a private person.
The ombudsman service should be able to come to a view about whether the transaction 
was excessive or not. And if we did, it would follow that the balance should be written off, 
leaving the bank with a profit of still over £250,000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs E asked us to look at a number of complaint points. I havent considered the sale 
of the mortgage as this was by a third party and when Mr E spoke to the investigator, he 
agreed that he did not want us to look into that point.
Mr and Mrs E have also raised that Lloyds should have written off the debt when the original 
term ended and that it should have offered to switch the mortgage to repayment sooner that 
it did. I understand that those two points did not form part of the original complaint to Lloyds. 
I understand Lloyds has told us it will address those points separately.
excessive profit
Lenders are entitled to apply interest to any outstanding mortgage balance. Because 
mortgages are long-term products and typically for large amounts of money, it follows that 
the amount of interest charged over the life of a mortgage is likely to be high. 
Borrowers will pay more interest on an interest only mortgage because the capital balance 
doesnt reduce over the term of the mortgage, so interest will be applied on the full balance. 
On the other hand, borrowers will make a saving as their payments will be lower than if 
they had a repayment mortgage.
Mr and Mrs E had a largely interest only mortgage over a full term of 25 years  and they will 
pay additional interest over the term of the repayment mortgage for a further ten years until 
2027. So I can understand why Mr and Mrs E see this as unfair. They will have paid interest 
to the bank for 35 years. But that doesnt necessarily mean that the bank has acted unfairly 
 and in the circumstances of this complaint I dont consider that it has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably:
I dont consider that by subtracting the original amount borrowed from the total amount Mr 
and Mrs E estimate they will have paid over the full term of the mortgage gives the profit that 
Lloyds will make. That is because there is always going to be a cost to the lender in raising 
the funds and in administering the mortgage  its profit margin is not going to be the interest 
rate it charges. 
When Mr and Mrs E took out the mortgage, Cheltenham & Gloucester was a building 
society. It is likely that that the funding was relatively straightforward. It raised money by 
offering to pay interest to savers at one interest rate. It lent that money to borrowers at a 
different, higher interest rate. Its profit was the difference between the two rates, less any 
costs. I cant see that Mr and Mrs E have taken account of that.
When Mr and Mrs E took out the mortgage they were paying an interest rate of 9.4%. The 
Buildings Society Association in its yearbook 2013/14 produced details of the rates of 
interest recommended by the Council of Building Societies. That showed that in quarter 
three of 1992, when Mr and Mrs E took out the mortgage, the recommended interest rate for 
mortgage lending was 10.6% and the recommended interest rate for saving was 8.41%. 
While we dont know the savings rates offered by Cheltenham & Gloucester, it seems likely 
that its profit margin was significantly less than Mr and Mrs E have suggested.
Cheltenham & Gloucester demutualised in 1995. That meant it could raise funds in different 
ways. But there was still a cost to it of raising funds, administering the mortgage, running its business etc. So again, the interest paid does not reflect the profit it made. And the same 
applies when Lloyds took over Cheltenham & Gloucester.
Therefore, it is difficult to say how much profit Lloyds would have made over the total life of 
the mortgage  and I would not expect a lender to be able to make such a calculation. It 
would be very difficult if not impossible for lenders to work that out on an individual mortgage 
that has already existed for almost thirty years.
Ultimately, I cant see there has been any error by Lloyds. There is no suggestion that it 
hasnt applied interest in line with the terms of the mortgage that Mr and Mrs E agreed to or 
that the interest rates it charged were unfair. Interest only mortgages were legitimate 
products at the time of the sale  and Lloyds wasnt responsible for the performance of the 
policies. So it isnt responsible for the interest applied over the life of the interest only 
mortgage or the additional cost to Mr and Mrs E in having to take a repayment mortgage in 
2018 because those policies didnt perform as expected.
how much interest will Mr and Mrs E pay?
As I understand it the basis of Mr and Mrs Es request for a breakdown was for them to see 
how much the bank had profited by. As Ive explained above, I dont agree that the interest 
Mr and Mrs E paid was all profit for the lender. So its not clear why they would still need to 
know how much interest they have paid.
Nevertheless, the lender would have sent Mr and Mrs E annual statements each year, which 
would have set out how much interest they paid. There is no requirement for the lender to 
retain those statements due to the passage of time  and Lloyds has told us it only retains 
information from 2002. I cant see any reason why the lender would be required to calculate 
how much interest Mr and Mrs E have paid. But Lloyds has offered to provide details to 
2002. If Mr and Mrs E wish to accept this offer they should contact Lloyds directly.
The lender wouldnt be able to calculate how much interest Mr and Mrs E will pay in the 
future as we dont know what interest rate Mr and Mrs E will pay or what payments they will 
make. So I wont be asking Lloyds to do this.
Lloyds should come to an arrangement with Mr and Mrs E
As far as I can see Lloyds has administered the mortgage in line with the terms that Mr and 
Mrs E agreed to. I cant see any reason why it would be fair to say that Lloyds should offer 
Mr and Mrs E any concessions on the amount they should repay. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman