DRN-4520191
The complaint
Mr S complains about Oplo PL Ltd (Oplo)s response to a claim he made under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, relating to a solar panel and battery storage system (the 
system) he purchased from a supplier in 2018.
What happened
Mr S purchased the system using a fixed sum loan agreement. The system was installed in 
June 2018.
At the time of purchase and when Mr S made his initial complaint, his loan was provided by 
and was the responsibility of another financial business (not Oplo). I will refer to that other 
financial business as the original lender. Since then, Oplo has become responsible for the 
loan account and as such has responsibility for this complaint.
Mr S initially contacted the original lender in August 2019. He complained that there were 
problems with the installation, including poor workmanship when it was installed, which 
meant the system was not working properly.
The original lender issued a number of responses to Mr S which he did not receive until he 
chased the matter up some time later. Unhappy with how things had been handled, Mr S 
contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service to ask for help in resolving the complaint.
After this, Oplo took over responsibility for the loan account and complaint. Oplo accepted 
that the original lender had not handled things well, nor had it resolved the matter in a fair 
and reasonable way.
Oplo arranged for an inspection of the system to confirm its condition and inform what was 
needed to put things right. The inspection confirmed the system had not been installed to an 
acceptable standard. It recommended the system be completely removed, then either:
A. The roof be reinstated to how it wouldve been before the system was installed.
Or
B. The damage to the roof be repaired and the system reinstalled to the appropriate 
standards using new fitting kits and wiring.
As a result of this, Oplo made an offer to:
Complete the remedial works as detailed in the report (under option B above) so that 
Mr S will have the system he agreed to purchase (which appeared to be his 
preference at that time).
Refund £3,514.58 of Mr Ss loan repayments (hes paid off the loan in full), which 
would mean he only paid the basic or cash price of the system (£17,500.00) and was 
not charged any interest.
Pay compensation of £2,000.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr S rejected this offer. He was unhappy that as part of this Oplo had said the remedial work 
would only come with a five-year warranty, since he said the original installation had a ten- 
year warranty. And he felt that if the system had been working properly he wouldnt have 
incurred such large electricity bills  so he wanted additional compensation for the extra 
expense incurred.
Since Mr S rejected Oplos offer, Oplo asked for an ombudsman to decide how it should put 
things right. And the complaint was passed to me so I could make a decision on this.
I issued a provisional decision explaining how I felt things should be put right  which 
included three options that Mr S could choose from:
Option A  for if Mr S wants the system repairing and will allow Oplo to arrange the 
work. 
Option B  for if  Mr S no longer wants the system and will allow Oplo to arrange its 
removal. 
Option C  for if Mr S didnt want Oplo to arrange any work on his property. 
Oplo responded to say that it agreed to the proposals set out in my provisional decision. 
Mr S responded to say that he would prefer Option C and made some comments about why 
he did not register for the Feed-In Tariff scheme. 
Because neither Oplo nor Mr S disagreed with my provisional decision, my final decision is 
along the same lines. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have the power to look at complaints against financial businesses about how they have 
responded to claims under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). Section 
75 says that debtors can claim against creditors in the same way they could claim against a 
supplier of goods or services where there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract on 
the part of the supplier.
I have decided to uphold this complaint. Below, I briefly explain my reasons and set out what 
Oplo must do to put things right. 
Breach of contract
In this case Mr Ss claim is that there was a breach of contract on the part of the supplier  
because the system it supplied was not installed with reasonable care and skill, such that it 
was not installed to the appropriate standards and did not work properly.
Oplo has accepted there was a breach of contract by the supplier. Everyone in this case is 
agreed on this point. So, all that is left for me to decide is what Oplo should do to put things 
right.
Remedy for breach of contractWhere there is a breach of contract, there are usually two options for putting things right:
Ensure the contract is fulfilled  in this case the system being properly installed in full 
working order. 
Cancel the contract and put the customer back in the position he wouldve been in if 
he had never agreed to the purchase (or as close as is reasonably possible).
In this case both options would normally require work to be done on Mr Ss property  either 
to reinstate or reinstall the system or to remove it. But this can cause additional problems  
for example if there are additional disputes about the work required. 
So, in my provisional decision I included an option in case Mr S did not want Oplo to arrange 
any work at his property (or in case he did not allow this to happen within a reasonable time). 
That option involved Oplo paying financial compensation in order to put Mr S back in the 
position he wouldve been in if he had never agreed to the purchase (so far as is reasonably 
possible), plus paying additional compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
caused and removing the loan from Credit Reference Agency data. 
That is the option that Mr S has chosen. It means the settlement is purely financial and Oplo 
does not need to arrange any work at Mr Ss property. Once the settlement is paid, Oplo will 
have no further liability in relation to the system (because Mr S will have been paid 
compensation in order for him to have the system removed and his property reinstated). It is 
up to Mr S how he actually uses the settlement. 
In my provisional decision I warned Mr S that this option did involve some risk on his part, in 
that the amount paid to him for removal of the system was fixed as per the report. And that 
potentially this amount may not prove to be sufficient for Mr S to have the system removed 
and his property reinstated. 
Since Mr C has chosen this option and Oplo has accepted my provisional decision, this is 
how I have decided that Oplo should put things right. I set this out below.
Putting things right
To put things right, Oplo should unwind the credit agreement and:
Pay Mr S £7,800.00 plus VAT (the cost, according to the report, of removing the 
system from Mr Ss property and reinstating any damage caused by its installation 
and removal).
Refund Mr S all the loan repayments he has made.
Remove the loan from Credit Reference Agency data.
Pay Mr S £2,000 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Oplo PL Ltd  should put things right 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman