DRN-4324106
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the refund she is due, in relation to car that was supplied through a 
hire purchase agreement with Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services 
(BHL).
What happened
In November 2022 Mrs N acquired a used car from BHL with a hire purchase agreement.  
The cash price of the car was £34,049. The hire purchase agreement shows Mrs N paid a 
deposit of £2,426.77. So, the total amount financed on the agreement was £31,622.23 
payable over 48 monthly repayments of £542.03, and a final repayment of £14,759.
In March 2023 Mrs N complained to BHL about several issues she was experiencing with 
the car. Mrs N said she wanted to reject the car. In April 2023 BHL issued their final 
response upholding Mrs Ns complaint. To make things right BHL said theyd arrange for a 
refund of £4,099.36 which included, any payments shed made towards her agreement and 
her deposit, less any charge for usage.
BHL provided a breakdown of the refund which included a deposit refund of £2,426.77.  
Unhappy with their decision, Mrs N brought her complaint to our service for investigation. 
BHL provided our investigator with a copy of the sales invoice which confirmed that Mrs C 
made a part payment of £7,000. It also showed that she part exchanged a vehicle that had 
existing finance on it. The part exchanged vehicle was valued at £15,250 and had a finance 
settlement balance of £19,823.
Having looked into all the information on file, our investigator recommended that Mrs Ns 
complaint should not be upheld. Our investigator concluded that although Mrs N had made a 
payment of £7,000, a significant amount of it was used to offset some negative equity from 
the part exchanged vehicle, so found BHLs actions in the circumstances to be fair.
BHL accepted this recommendation. Mrs N didnt. She said she believed the whole amount 
was being put towards the car as a deposit.  However, as our investigators view remained 
unchanged, Mrs N asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it.
Mrs Ns concern appears to be that she was told her deposit was £7,000, and expects a full 
refund of it, given her car is being rejected due to it being of unsatisfactory quality. Mrs N has 
referred to emails where she was told her deposit was £7,000 and says the documentation 
she was given didnt show a breakdown of the deposit or give details of her part exchange.
The financial Conduct Authority (FCA) have set out 11 principles for business, which 
are considered as fundamental obligations. The principles can be found within the 
FCA handbook. Principle seven says: 
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Mrs N says she was led to believe shed paid a deposit of £7,000 which she should 
receive as a refund as her deposit was to be returned to her. So, Ive considered 
whether BHL were clear in how they communicated the deposit amount to Mrs N.
Mrs N provided us with a copy of an email (dated October 2022) she received from the 
dealership. In it the dealership advises: we have also changed your figures showing a total 
deposit of £7,000. On 3 July 2023, Mrs N also provided us with a copy of the vehicle order 
form which showed the balance due from Mrs N for the car was £7,000. BHL also provided 
us with a copy of the vehicle order form and the sales invoice for the car, as well as the hire 
purchase agreement. So, Ive looked at these point-of-sale documents which should be clear 
about the transaction related to the supply of the car and what Mrs N was required to pay.
The sales invoice and the vehicle order form both include a breakdown of the costs. This is 
in section 4 of the vehicle order form and under the statement summary on the sales invoice. 
Both documents state the total price as £34,049, the part exchanged value as £15,250 and 
the finance settlement on the part exchanged car as £19,823.23. So, its clear from the 
documents that Mrs Ns part exchanged car was valued at an amount that was less than the 
finance attached to it, which means it was in negative equity by £4,573.23.
I acknowledge the documents dont have the negative amount recorded on them, however 
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that they are reasonably transparent to show that the 
existing finance on the car being part exchanged, was more than its value.
The documents also show that Mrs N was making a payment of £7,000 towards the 
transaction. On the sales invoice its noted as part payment received, and on the vehicle 
order form its noted as balance due from customer. 
On the finance agreement the deposit amount is recorded as £2,426.77 and the total amount 
being financed as £31,622.23. On the sales invoice this is recorded as the net total due. 
On the vehicle order form, its recorded as balance to finance.The deposit amount of £2,426.77 is noted on the front page of the hire purchase agreement 
which Mrs N had signed. I also can see that Mrs N signed a copy of the vehicle order form 
and so would have seen that her existing car was in negative equity.
Im satisfied that the breakdown of information on the point-of-sale document was clear and 
transparent enough for Mrs N to know that her existing car was in negative equity by 
£4,573.23 which had been transferred to her contribution of £7,000.
I acknowledge Mrs N was told in an email her total deposit was £7,000, however the point-
of-sale documents, which form the contract between Mrs N and BHL, do not refer to the 
£7,000 as a deposit. As the car was being rejected, Mrs N hasnt specifically said whether 
she expected BHL to absorb the £4,573.23. However, Im satisfied that expecting BHL to do 
so would be unreasonable and unfair in the circumstances. 
As BHL took on the existing debt from Mrs Ns car, I think its reasonable that they deducted 
the amount of negative equity (£4,573.23) leaving a deposit amount of £2,426.77.
All things considered, I recognise Mrs N made a payment contribution of £7,000 which she 
believed to be a deposit, and I acknowledge she may not have had a conversation with BHL 
about how those funds were going to be used, however Im satisfied it was applied to the 
agreement to offset the negative equity that was owed by Mrs N, which allowed her to 
acquire the car at the monthly rate that she got it for. 
As Ive concluded that BHL acted fairly by refunding the deposit amount of £2,426.77, I dont 
require BHL to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint about Black Horse Limited trading as Land 
Rover Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman