DRN-3387597
The complaint
Miss K complains that Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd (AMF) mis-sold her a life assurance 
and critical illness policy when she took out a mortgage.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and for the reasons explained below. I 
understand this isnt the answer Miss K was hoping for but after considering the available 
evidence, Im not fairly satisfied the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I consider the crux of this complaint to consist of two key points. Its these Ill focus on.
First, Miss K says AMF strongly advised her to take out the policy and she felt pressured, 
being led to believe it was required as a condition of her obtaining the mortgage.
It isnt now in dispute that taking out the policy wasnt compulsory; its finding this out that 
Miss K says prompted her to complain.
I understand how Miss K says she was made to feel when her advisor sold her the policy. I 
wasnt present so I cant be certain what she was told at the time of the sale. Ive carefully 
considered what Miss K has said but I also must take into account that shes recalling 
conversations from eight years ago. So, Ive had to balance her testimony with evidence 
from the time of the sale. On balance, I usually find this more persuasive than information 
given in hindsight sometime after the event.
Miss K says she was strongly advised to take the policy but there is a difference between 
this and being told she had to have the policy for her mortgage to be approved. 
I accept the advice she received may have strongly suggested she be covered, but I dont 
think thats necessarily unreasonable  if the policy suited her needs. A mortgage is a large 
commitment, the lender themselves recommended a life policy be taken out and maintained 
throughout the term of the borrowing.
In addition, Miss Ks mortgage offer clearly states that only buildings insurance was required 
as a condition of the lending and that she wasnt restricted to taking this out through AMF or 
the lender directly.
I can see the mortgage offer was issued two days prior to Miss Ks conversations regarding 
the policy. And, in the advisors recommendation letter, she was provided cancellation rights 
informing her she had 30 days to cancel the policy.
Considering the documents Miss K wouldve received at or around the time of the advice, Im 
not persuaded she was misled about the policy being compulsory to obtaining her mortgage.
Next, Ive considered if the advice was suitable. AMF had a duty to ensure that any policy 
recommendation it made was suitable for Miss K given her needs and circumstances.
Miss K says she didnt require cover as she was adequately protected through her two 
employers at the time. I understand Miss K says there was nothing to indicate her 
employment or the benefits she received would be changing, but that isnt something that 
couldve been guaranteed. Her cover wouldve have ceased following an employment 
change so recommending additional cover isnt necessarily unreasonable.
Miss Ks protection needs were discussed over the telephone after which the advisor 
confirmed his recommendation in writing.
In the recommendation it was recorded Miss K had no existing policies in place. It also 
recorded it was important for her mortgage and other lending to be repaid in the event of her 
death or if she should suffer a critical illness.
Im aware Miss K disputes this, saying her dependant at the time wouldve been cared for by 
their other parent and the lender could take the house should she die. However, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, Im persuaded to attach more weight to the evidence from the 
time.
The advisor made a recommendation for a life and critical illness policy that matched both 
the amount and term of the mortgage. The cover decreased over time as the mortgage was 
repaid.
Looking at the policy and considering the recommendation provided to Miss K, Im satisfied it 
was suitable for her needs. In the event of death, the policy wouldve allowed the mortgage 
to be repaid and the house be left to her family. In the event of her suffering a critical illness 
covered by the policy, Miss K wouldnt have had to worry about continuing to repay the 
mortgage.
In summary, I find the advice provided by AMF was suitable, so I wont be asking them to do 
anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman