DRN-2928827
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how CreationFinancial Services Limited have handled his credit card 
account and feels that there are discrepancies in the amount stated as outstanding.
What happened
Mr R opened a credit card account with Creation with a credit limit of £200. Following this, 
Mr R didnt agree with the amount that Creation said that he owed on his monthly 
statements, and he felt that interest and charges had been applied to his account incorrectly. 
Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Creation looked at Mr Rs complaint, but they felt that they the statement amounts were 
correct and that all interest and charges had been applied correctly to Mr Rs account. So, 
they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr R wasnt happy with Creations response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Creation had applied 
interest and charges to Mr Rs account correctly, so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs account stipulate that charges can be applied to the 
account if Mr R takes the outstanding balance of the account over the credit limit. This is 
known as an over-limit fee and was first applied to Mr Rs account when his balance 
exceeded the credit limit in June 2019. At that time Creation agreed to reimburse the over-
limit fee as a gesture of goodwill. 
Creation also informed Mr R at that time that no further over-limit fees would be reversed. 
Following this, Mr R took the balance of his account beyond the credit limit in August 2019 
and Creation applied an over-limit fee accordingly. And, given the above, Im satisfied that it 
was fair and reasonable for Creation to have done so.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs account also stipulate that monthly interest can be 
applied to the balance of the account if a balance remains on the account past a certain date 
of the month. In the case of Mr Rs account, the applicable day of the month is the 29th.
Mr R states in his complaint that he feels that there are several instances where interest has 
been applied incorrectly to his account. However, after reviewing the account statements I 
can see that in all instances interest had been applied because Mr R hadnt made the 
necessary payment to clear the account by the 29th of the month, and as such Im satisfied 
that in all instances the interest has been applied to the account correctly. 
Finally, Mr R believes that the total balance outstanding on the account should be less that 
what is being stated by Creation. And this remains the case after Creation agreed to 
reimburse some fees and interest that had been accrued on the account after 19 August 
2020, at which time Creation had agreed to put a hold on Mr Rs account.
However, Ive reviewed the statements on the account and paid attention to the various 
reimbursement that have been made to Mr Rs account by Creation and Im satisfied that 
Creations calculation of the outstanding balance which remains payable on the account is 
fair.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Creation have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Creation to take any further action at this time  beyond that to which theyve already 
agreed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman