DRN-3135582
The complaint
Mrs D complains that the loans she had from Loans 2 Go Limited were unaffordable to her 
and that the interest rate was too high.
  
What happened
Mrs D was approved for three loans with Loans 2 Go, between April 2014 and March 2018 
as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 8 Apr 2014 £2,000 48m £244.14 8 Apr 2018 24 Nov 2014
2 5 May 2016 £3,000 36m £413.33 26 Apr 2019 26 Mar 2018
With loan 3
3 26 Mar 2018 £2,200 18m £364.22 25 Sep 2019 31 Oct 2019
.
Mrs D says that Loans 2 Go didnt carry out proper affordability checks before it approved 
her loans, and that she was charged too much interest.
Loans 2 Go says it verified Mrs Ds income, checked her credit file and calculated her other 
monthly expenditure. It says its checks showed that the loan repayments were affordable, 
and that interest was charged in line with the contractual terms and conditions. It adds that 
loan 1 is outside the six-year jurisdiction limit and therefore it does not give its consent for 
that loan to be investigated further.
Our investigator explained the reasons why he considered loan 1 was also within this 
services jurisdiction, to which Loans 2 Go has now agreed. He recommended Mrs Ds 
complaint should be upheld. Our investigator did not consider Loans 2 Go had carried out 
proportionate checks for the loans and found that better checks would have shown the 
lending to be unsustainable. Our adjudicator recommended that Loans 2 Go should deduct 
any payments Mrs D made from the total money she received and refund the overpayments 
with 8% interest. He also said Loans 2 Go should remove any negative information about the 
loans from her credit file.
Loans 2 Go responded to say, in summary, that it had taken into account all Mrs Ds 
expenditure and credit commitments and found the loans to be affordable. It said there was 
no indication Mrs D was in financial difficulty and the credit file showed no history of an 
inability to handle her credit commitments. It added that there was no requirement for it to 
obtain bank statements and its checks were proportionate to the circumstances of the loans.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Loans 2 Go lent to Mrs D. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
At the time of the initial lending CONC 5.3.1G stated that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Ds case, I have considered the 
following questions:Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mrs Ds loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in 
a sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loan 1
Ive seen evidence to show Loans 2 Go asked about Mrs Ds financial circumstances, 
checked her credit file and verified her income. But Im not satisfied that these checks went 
far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 48 months and Loans 2 Go needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Mrs Ds declared monthly credit repayments, plus the new loan repayment, would be 
almost 27% of her verified income;
Loans 2 Go calculated Mrs D had a disposable income of around £700 per month which 
seems inconsistent with the need for a £2,000 high cost loan to be repaid over four 
years;
Mrs D said her contribution towards the mortgage payments was £300 per month, but I 
cant see Loans 2 Go has verified that, or the total payment required each month;
I cant see the credit check was sufficiently detailed to show all Mrs Ds credit 
commitments;
The credit check showed a number of searches that may have indicated Mrs D was 
reliant on short-term lending and that she may have taken out a credit card days earlier.
So I dont think Loans 2 Go should have relied purely on the information Mrs D declared 
about her expenditure and should have carried out further checks to satisfy itself about her 
financial circumstances.
Ive had a look at Mrs Ds bank statements from the time to see what they showed as a 
reasonable proxy for what Loans 2 Go might have found out had it looked into Mrs Ds 
finances in more depth:
Mrs Ds income was around £2,000 per month;
As well as the £255 loan repayment Mrs D had declared, she was also repaying a further 
£400 per month on three other loans; 
Mrs D was paying a debt management company £100 each month;
Other regular payments including utilities, insurance and council tax totalled around £500 
per month;
The mortgage payment was around £600 per month;
Shed taken out a £300 short-term loan on 7 April 2014.
I acknowledge Mrs D says her part of the mortgage payment was about £300, but I cant see 
that her husband transferred his share each month. That said, Mrs Ds bank account does not reflect the spend on food, travel or communications that she declared so I have assumed 
that expenditure is covered elsewhere. In addition, I can see there are regular transfers of 
money overseas, which is verified by contact notes from Loans 2 Go regarding a sick family 
member.
In summary, Mrs Ds bank statements showed she had insufficient disposable income to 
sustainably make the repayments for four years, even before the recent short-term loan is 
taken into account. As there was also a regular payment to a debt management company, I 
find there were clear indications that Mrs D was struggling to manage her money.
So Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown it was irresponsible 
to lend to Mrs D and Loans 2 Go did not make a fair lending decision with regard to loan 1.
Loan 2
Mrs D applied for loan 2 eighteen months after shed repaid loan 1. Loans 2 Go carried out 
the same checks again, although this time I can see it had more detailed information about 
Mrs Ds existing credit.
The checks showed:
Mrs Ds income was around £1,700 per month;
The mortgage payment was just over £500 per month, although the mortgage had 
been on a payment arrangement for four months;
Mrs D was paying over £900 per month on four loans and a further £80 on payment 
arrangements on a credit card and home credit account;
The credit file was showing Mrs D had had four defaulted accounts in the previous 36 
months and a County Court Judgment (CCJ) in July 2014.
Im satisfied, therefore, that Loans 2 Go had enough information about Mrs Ds 
circumstances at the time of loan 2 to make a fair lending decision. The defaults, CCJ and 
payment arrangements were clear indications that Mrs D was struggling financially. So I find 
Mrs D could not sustainably repay a further £413.33 per month for 36 months and, therefore, 
Loans 2 Go should not have approved the loan.
Loan 3
Mrs D took out loan 3 on 26 March 2018 and used over £1,800 of the £2,200 loan to repay 
loan 2. This reduced her monthly repayments to £364.22 over the next 18 months. Although 
Mrs D had settled four of her previous credit accounts, shed also taken out two more loans 
(including one for £10,000) and her monthly credit commitment was now approaching 
£1,100 before loan 3 was taken into account. Loans 2 Go had verified her income as just 
over £1,800 and her mortgage payment was £525.
So, again I find it was irresponsible to approve further lending to Mrs D.Finally, Im satisfied that Mrs D was charged interest in line with the terms and conditions of 
the loans and that this was clearly communicated.
In summary, I find that if Loans 2 Go had carried out proportionate checks for all the loans, it 
would have found the repayments were unsustainable for Mrs D. So I cannot agree it made 
fair lending decisions, although I dont find it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Mrs D received as a result of having been given 
the loans. The repayments Mrs D made should be deducted from this amount;
oIf this results in Mrs D having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*);
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs D. 
Remove any negative information about the loans from Mrs Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman