DRN-3663518
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the information he was given by National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) about the amount he could overpay his mortgage, without having to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC). He says this has prevented him from using the full allowance in 
some years and so he has paid additional interest on the mortgage. 
As a resolution to the complaint, he wants NatWest to waive the ERC attached to the 
interest rate product for the mortgage year starting in February 2022.This would enable him 
to make additional overpayments to compensate for any detriment he has suffered in 
previous years.
What happened
Mr M took out his mortgage of slightly under £1,900,000 with NatWest in February 2018. The 
mortgage was arranged on a repayment basis over a term of 25 years. A fixed interest rate 
product was attached to the mortgage, which has an ERC payable until 28 March 2023. 
However, Mr M was allowed to make overpayments of up to 10% of the mortgage balance in 
each twelve-month period from the date of the advance/its anniversary, without incurring an 
ERC.
From February 2019 NatWest sent Mr M annual mortgage statements showing what the 
balance of the mortgage had been at the beginning of the mortgage year  22 February  
and what it was at the end of the year. Details of the payments made and interest charged 
were given, and the amount needed to repay the mortgage was confirmed, along with the 
ERC that would be charged if that happened. 
In the summer of 2020 Mr M made enquiries about making over payments to the mortgage. 
NatWest explained how this worked and confirmed that Mr M could overpay a maximum of 
£175,539.89 in that mortgage year. He stated making overpayments shortly thereafter. 
In early December 2020 Mr M contacted NatWest questioning what had happened to an 
overpayment he made in November 2020, which hadnt yet been reflected in the mortgage 
balance. The overpayment was processed on 10 December 2020. Mr M complained about 
how long it had taken for the money to be allocated to his mortgage.
NatWest responded to the complaint on 12 December 2020. It explained that it set out on its 
website that it could take up to three days for overpayments to be applied and reflect in the 
loan value. However, at that time Mr M made his payment, it was taking up to ten working 
days, but payments were being backdated. It was confirmed that the delay had been due to 
human error and an apology was offered. NatWest confirmed that another mistake occurred 
while the payment was being processed. This was that the payment had been backdated to 
20 November 2020, rather than 22 November 2020 as it should have been. However, as the 
mistake didnt cause Mr M any detriment, NatWest decided to leave it as it was. However, it 
offered Mr M £150 compensation for the inconvenience hed suffered. 
The following week NatWest confirmed how much was left on the overpayment allowance 
for 2020/21 mortgage year - £64,865.47. Mr M called NatWest on 22 February 2021 and 
asked for the email to be sent again, as he hadnt reviewed it yet. Mr M then made two lump 
sum overpayments. He called again that day and it was confirmed that he could make 
further overpayments totalling £33,865.47. As there had been problems with the information 
about the overpayment allowance, it was confirmed the payments already made that day 
and any further payments made to use up the allowance, would be credited as being for the 
2020/21 mortgage year and no ERC would be charged. 
The overpayment allowance for the mortgage year 2021/22 was confirmed to Mr M on 
22 February 2021 as £157,947.21. However, the further payments that were made after that 
date, but under the 2020/21 overpayment allowance, reduced that figure as they reduced the 
end of year balance. This was confirmed to Mr M by email on 26 February 2021. The figure 
was later adjusted to £154,897.21.
On 26 February 2021 Mr M contacted NatWest concerned that there was a payment from 
20 February 2020 missing and the ERC for three other payments hadnt been refunded to 
the account. 
On 26 February 2021 NatWest provided a response to Mr Ms concerns about the confusion 
over what Mr Ms overpayment allowance had been for 2020/21. It confirmed that the 
problems had been resolved in that the payments had been made and no ERC had been 
applied. NatWest paid Mr M the cost of the calls he had needed to make to resolve the issue 
and £75 compensation for the upset and inconvenience hed suffered. 
Mr M made further overpayments for the 2021/22 mortgage year and had been told hed 
used up his allowance in full by the end of 2021. In January 2022 he contacted NatWest and 
asked that he be allowed to make the contractual monthly payments he would have made in 
2020 during a payment holiday. He confirmed that he wanted to be allowed to make those 
payments without incurring an ERC. NatWest didnt agree to this. 
Mr M raised a complaint on 14 January 2022 about the overpayment allowance. He said that 
he didnt believe that it had been calculated correctly for the 2021/22 mortgage year. 
NatWest looked into the matter and it was established that Mr M still had £68,774.71 
overpayment allowance to use for that year. It was agreed that any further overpayments 
made for that mortgage year would be credited to the account as at 24 December 2021. 
Unfortunately, because of a system issue, an ERC was charged on each of the payments 
made thereafter, and had to be refunded. 
A further final response letter was issued to Mr M on 31 January 2022, dealing with Mr Ms 
concerns about constantly being given conflicting information about the yearly overpayment 
allowance, and the online system providing inaccurate figures, meaning he hadnt been able 
to make overpayment without incurring an ERC. NatWest apologised for the system error 
and confirmed that it would be fixed, but it couldnt confirm when. Until it was, Mr M would be 
sent a letter at the beginning of each mortgage year telling him how much the allowance 
was. As Mr M had said that he would have made payments to use up the remainder of the 
2021/22 allowance on 24 December 2021, NatWest said that it would backdate any 
payments made before the mortgage year end to that date. NatWest offer Mr M £150 for the 
poor service hed received. 
Mr M raised a further complaint. Some of the points had already been addressed in 
NatWests earlier responses, but two new issues were raised. These were about the ERCs 
that had been charged on some recent overpayments, and the delay in applying a payment 
transferred on 20 February 2022.  NatWest responded and confirmed that the ERCs 
shouldnt have been charged and were being refunded. It also confirmed that the payment of 
20 February 2022 had been applied to the mortgage and backdated under the previous years allowance. NatWest apologised for the delay and offered to send Mr M a gift hamper 
as compensation for his inconvenience.
Mr M raised concerns about the date the payment had been backdated to, as he considered 
it should have been 24 December 2021, as had happened with other payments made. 
NatWest issued a new final response letter on 18 May 2022, which it said superseded its 
letter of 7 April 2022. It confirmed the situation regarding the ERCs. It was explained that the 
payment in question had been backdated to 24 January 2021, rather than December, 
because that was when it was paid to the account. NatWest reiterated that it was happy to 
send Mr M a gift hamper if he wished to accept it.
Mr M was unhappy about NatWest not having dealt with the matter of the financial detriment 
he had suffered due to being misled about the overpayment allowance prior to the 2020/21 
mortgage year. As this wasnt resolved after further correspondence, he referred the 
complaint to us for consideration. He told us that each year hed had to make payments at 
the end of the financial year because of NatWests mistakes and had been unable to plan. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She agreed that NatWest could have done better in relation to the information it was 
providing Mr M. However, corrective action had been taken in relation to both the 2020/21 
and 2021/22 mortgage years and she was satisfied that action was appropriate. She 
acknowledged that the issues would have been frustrating but when contacted, NatWest had 
been able to provide accurate figures both over the telephone, in manual letters and annual 
statements. As such, she wasnt persuaded that Mr M had lost out financially. In relation to 
Mr Ms request for the ERC to be waived for 2022/23, to allow him to make unlimited 
overpayments, she didnt consider that would be appropriate. This was because Mr M hadnt 
contacted NatWest about making overpayments until 2020, so providing for previous years 
allowances to be used, wouldnt be appropriate. The investigator also considered the £150 
and hamper offered was sufficient to compensate him for any inconvenience hed suffered.
Mr M pointed out in response that NatWest had duties under regulations as to how it 
handled client money. In addition, he said that the computer system was still showing an 
incorrect figure for the overpayment allowance available to him at that time. He confirmed 
that he hadnt received the £150 compensation payment, or the hamper offered. Also, he 
said the payment from 20 February 2021 hadnt been backdated to the correct date, and he 
was awaiting a response from NatWest on that matter. Mr M asked that the complaint be 
passed to an ombudsman. 
Subsequently, Mr M added to the complaint issues he hadnt previously raised; issues with 
how his complaints had been handled. He also provided a photograph from NatWests 
banking systems showing an overpayment allowance of £119,825.78 on a mortgage of 
£1,281,598.82. He highlighted that he hadnt made any overpayments so far for 2022/23 and 
so the allowance was wrong. Mr M said that this proved the issues were systemic. He 
repeated that what he wanted to resolve the complaint was for the ERC to be removed for 
the remainder of the mortgage year. 
Our investigator commented further. She confirmed that the we didnt have the ability to 
make a financial business alter their systems or processes; that would be a matter for the 
regulator. While Mr M may not be satisfied with that situation, the investigator was satisfied 
that NatWest had taken appropriate action in relation to the complaints made. Indeed, she 
pointed out that it hadnt been sure when the problem with the mortgage system that had 
given Mr M incorrect figures would be fixed. 
Mr M highlighted a section of the January 2022 final response letter where NatWest had 
confirmed that it would backdate the remaining payments made under the overpayment allowance to 24 December 2021. Mr M confirmed that the payment on 20 February 2022 
was part of the overpayment allowance. In addition, he said NatWest had been aware of the 
problem with the mortgage system for over two year and hadnt fixed it. He didnt think that 
was a reasonable timescale. Mr M repeated his request that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
The investigator went back to NatWest and asked some further questions and for additional 
evidence. It was established that NatWest had incorrectly told both us and Mr M that the 
missing payment had been backdated to 24 January 2022. It had actually been backdated to 
24 December 2021. NatWest also explained that the difficulty with the overpayment 
allowance being detailed on the system Mr M was accessing was now due to payments 
being made in one mortgage year, but being allocated to use the previous years allowance. 
It confirmed that the system couldnt reflect the manual alterations made on the account, but 
an alert had been added to the account for any discussions that occurred. Assuming Mr M 
made all the payments he wanted to in order to use the current overpayment allowance in 
the correct mortgage year, the issue would no longer affect the figures showing on the 
system he was accessing. 
The investigator explained this to Mr M and, while she appreciated the frustration he felt at 
the online system showing an incorrect value, she thought NatWest had taken reasonable 
actions to deal with the issue. She remained satisfied that NatWest had done what it should 
and the compensation it had offered was appropriate. As for the new complaint issues Mr M 
had mentioned, she explained that he would need to refer them to NatWest in the first 
instance. 
Mr M remained dissatisfied and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly confirm that the concerns Mr M has raised about recent events will need to be 
referred to NatWest. This is because, under our rules, a financial business has the right to 
have the opportunity to address a complaint or problem before we become involved. 
The core of this complaint is that Mr M has been given incorrect and inconsistent information 
about the amount of the overpayment allowance in the mortgage years starting in 
February 2020 and February 2021. This meant that Mr M wasnt able to use the entire 
overpayment allowance at convenient times for him and this resulted in him making multiple 
payments at the end of each of the mortgage years and into the beginning of the next. This 
will have been inconvenience for Mr M and NatWest has acknowledged that. 
In response to the issues, it allowed Mr M to make payments, some later than allowed, to 
use the full allowance for both of the affected years. Where Mr M told NatWest the payments 
would have been made earlier, it backdated those payments to the relevant date. I am 
satisfied this placed Mr M in the correct financial position and I cant ask NatWest to do more 
in this respect. 
In relation to the problem that caused the incorrect overpayment allowance to be showing in 
2020, NatWest has reported that the initial error has been resolved in that in a normal 
payment year, the correct figures would be showing. However, because of what it did to 
redress the errors in the last mortgage year, the figure is incorrect for this year. It has placed 
a marker on the account to make sure that its staff know about the situation. If Mr M makes his payments within the mortgage year, the future overpayment allowance will show 
correctly. I know that this is frustrating for Mr M, but as our investigator explained, it isnt our 
role to interfere with a business processes and systems. However, it does appear from 
whats been said, the system problem that caused the initial issues, has been fixed.
It is clear that Mr M has been inconvenienced by having to seek clarification about the 
overpayment allowance for the relevant years and NatWest should provide some 
compensation in this respect. It has now paid Mr M £150 and sent him a gift hamper. I know 
that Mr M wont agree with me, but I am satisfied that this is sufficient compensation, in the 
circumstances. 
Mr M has said that the problem with the mortgage system prevented him from making 
overpayments in the first two mortgage years, and as such, NatWest should remove the 
ERC for the current mortgage year in order to allow him to use the overpayment allowance 
from previous years. I dont consider that would be reasonable in the circumstances. As our 
investigator pointed out, Mr M made no attempt to use the allowance in those years and 
didnt make any enquiries about doing so until the 2020/2021 mortgage year. 
I would also comment that given Mr M knew how much his mortgage advance was for, he 
would have been aware in February 2018 how much the 10% overpayment allowance 
amounted to, so I find it unlikely that no payments were made in that year because of any 
error on the part of NatWest. In the absence of any substantive evidence the allowance went 
unused because of an error on the part of NatWest, I cant ask NatWest to allow allowances 
from earlier years to be used retrospectively, or for it to waive the ERC now to allow Mr M to 
make unlimited payments or to re-mortgage without charge.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
21 October 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman