DRN-2800765
Complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited turned down his claim for theft.
Background
Mr T has a packaged bank account. One of the features of that account is a mobile phone 
and gadget insurance policy that is underwritten by Assurant.
In January 2021, he was the victim of theft. Hed recently paid for and taken delivery of three 
iPhones, a MacBook and an Apple watch. Hed placed the order for these items in 
December and intended that they be Christmas gifts. Unfortunately, the delivery was 
delayed and so he didnt receive them until after Christmas.
He arranged for the items to be delivered to a friends address because hed experience 
difficulties with deliveries at his own. After he received the items, he left in his car and made 
a stop at a bank on the high street. He left these items in a shoebox under the front 
passenger seat of his car and obscured them from view using a large leather bag which 
contained the MacBook. When Mr T returned to his car, he found that the window had been 
smashed and the items taken.
After informing the police, he called Assurant. It declined his claim because it didnt think Mr 
T had taken care of the items. It relied on an exclusion in the policy that said the policyholder 
should store items out of sight wherever possible. It said that it thinks he had left the items 
visible which enabled an opportunistic thief to steal them. It questioned why he hadnt locked 
the items inside the boot of his car, rather than leaving them under the passenger seat. 
Mr T wasnt happy that Assurant declined his claim and complained. Assurant was satisfied 
it had correctly declined the claim and so Mr T brought his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who upheld it and asked Assurant to reconsider his claim. The 
Investigator thought that Mr T had taken reasonable care of the devices and that it was likely 
they had been kept out of sight. He explained that Mr T told him he hadnt moved the items 
to the boot because he thought that might be a riskier move  i.e. it might have alerted 
someone to the likelihood that he was securing something valuable.
Overall, the Investigator thought the exclusion didnt apply to Mr Ts claim because he didnt 
think the items had been left on display in the car. Assurant disagreed with the Investigators 
opinion. It argued that the items must have been visible if theyd tempted someone to break 
into his car and steal them. It reiterated its view that the items wouldve been safer if Mr T 
had stored them in the boot of his car.
As Assurant disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont find that Assurant can rely on this exclusion to decline Mr Ts claim. 
The exclusion says:
We know how important your device is to you and we expect that you will take care 
of it. If you dont take care of your device, then we may not pay your claim.
Taking care of your device means: 
Not knowingly leaving your device somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or 
damaged. Just think, would you leave your wallet or purse there?
If you need to leave your device somewhere then we expect you to lock it 
away out of sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must 
leave it with someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.
If you knowingly leave your device where others can see it but you cannot, and your 
device is then lost or stolen, we may not pay your claim.
[]
 if you knowingly do any of the below we may decline your claim for not
taking care of your device:
leaving your device somewhere you cant see it but others can.
leaving your device on display in your car.
From Mr Ts description, the items were locked away (i.e. he locked his car before going into 
the bank) and they were out of sight. The phones were stored in a shoebox that gave no 
indication as to its contents. The MacBook was stored in a large all-purpose leather bag  so 
an opportunistic thief couldnt have known that it contained an expensive laptop.
Assurant has argued that Mr T plainly recognised that there was a risk and that was why he 
concealed the items. But that is what the terms of the police expect of him  to be heedful of 
circumstances where his devices might be at risk of theft and act carefully in such 
circumstances.  Assurants point that the theft couldnt have happened if the items werent 
visible is well made but it doesnt persuade me to change my position. Mr T clearly believed 
that he had concealed the devices effectively and so he cant be said to have knowingly left 
them where others could see them. 
Overall, I dont think that Mr T can be said to have knowingly left the devices somewhere 
they were on display or likely to be stolen and so Im not persuaded that Assurant can 
decline his claim by relying on this exclusion.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited should reassess Mr Ts claim in line with remaining 
terms of his policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
James KimmittOmbudsman