DRN-4015446
The complaint
Miss S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly refused to pay an ex gratia 
payment for a claim under her legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which it 
takes responsibility. 
What happened
In late 2021, Miss S made a claim under her policy for the legal costs to pursue a barrister 
for negligent advice. She asked to use a solicitor of her own choice. 
Aviva asked Miss S solicitor to complete a reporting form about the case, including their 
opinion on prospects and proportionality. The solicitor said the claim enjoyed reasonable 
prospects of being successful, but that the likely costs would exceed the prospective 
damages  meaning it wasnt proportionate to pursue. 
Based on this advice, Aviva declined to cover the claim as it didnt meet the policy 
requirements. Miss S asked whether it would pay an ex gratia payment, but Aviva declined. 
Instead, it offered to cover proportionate funding for the claim subject to a positive prospects 
assessment.
Miss S raised a complaint. She says the reporting form asked her solicitor whether the case 
was suitable for an ex gratia payment and her solicitor said it was. Shes unhappy that Aviva 
asked this question if it wasnt prepared to follow her solicitors advice. Shed like her claim 
to be met by the policy or an ex gratia payment to be made. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said the reporting form was a standard template that it 
uses for several policies and whilst it asked for the solicitors opinion, it was for Aviva to 
make the decision on policy cover. As Miss S remained unhappy, she brought her complaint 
to our service.
Our Investigator didnt think Aviva had been unfair by declining to make an ex gratia 
payment as the policy doesnt offer this. He said the offer of proportionate funding was fair 
but that Aviva should allow Miss S chosen solicitor to provide the prospects assessment.
Aviva didnt agree. It said it was standard practice for it to obtain a prospects assessment 
from its panel solicitors. And Miss S requested that the prospects assessment be obtained 
from a barrister.
As the complaint remained unresolved, it was passed to me to decide, and I issued the 
following provisional decision.
My provisional decision
Its a requirement of Miss S legal expenses insurance policy that any intended claim has 
reasonable prospects of success  which is defined in the policy as being more likely than 
not that [you] willrecover damages. In laymans terms, this means that the chances of 
winning and receiving the money awarded must be more than 50% (i.e. 51% or above).
In addition, the policy requires the claim to be proportionate to pursue  which means the 
legal costs required should not outweigh the amount of money in dispute. So, for example, if 
the amount in dispute was £100 but the legal costs to recover the money were £1000, the 
claim wouldnt be proportionate to take forward.
These conditions are a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and I dont think 
theyre unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt generally 
want to bear the cost if advised their claim was unlikely to succeed or that their legal costs 
would be more than the amount they would recover in court. And I wouldnt expect a legal 
expenses insurer to either.
Aviva asked Miss S chosen solicitors for their opinion on the prospects of the claim being 
successful, as well as an estimate of the likely award and the costs / disbursements to 
pursue the claim to conclusion. Whilst the solicitor said prospects were greater than 50%, 
they advised that the likely costs will exceed prospective damages  estimating the value 
of the claim to be around £3,000 and costs / disbursements to be in the region of £5,000 - 
£8,000.
Based on this assessment, I think it was fair for Aviva to conclude that the policy terms 
hadnt been met as the claim was not proportionate to pursue. 
Miss S wants Aviva to pay her an ex gratia payment and I can understand why she thought 
this was an available option given the questions on the reporting form. But I cant see 
anything in the policy terms to suggest that Aviva are obligated to offer this, and I accept its 
explanation that the reporting form is a standard template used for many different policies. 
Im not persuaded that just because the solicitors opinion was sought on whether the case 
was suitable for an ex gratia payment means Aviva should make one, especially when its 
not something the policy provides for.
Aviva has offered to provide proportionate funding to pursue the claim subject to a positive 
prospects assessment from its panel solicitors. I appreciate why Miss S wants this to be 
obtained from a lawyer of her choosing. But I need to be mindful that her claim isnt covered 
by the policy because it doesnt meet the proportionality requirement, so this offer from Aviva 
is a gesture of goodwill. As such, I think its fair for Aviva to stipulate the terms of this offer. 
For that reason, Im not persuaded that its unfair for Aviva to obtain the prospects 
assessment from its panel solicitors. And I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
For clarity, proportionate funding means that Aviva will cover the legal costs up to the value 
of the claim. As it stands, the value of Miss S claim has been estimated at £3,000 which 
means proportionate funding wont exceed this amount. So there is a possibility that cover 
under the policy wont be enough to bring this claim to a conclusion and this might leave 
Miss S open to paying costs herself when proportionate funding has been exhausted. This 
is, of course, a matter for her to decide should her claim be accepted following the prospects 
assessment.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss S didnt accept my provisional decision. She says: 
Its not clear why a panel solicitor will now be used when Aviva were happy for her 
chosen solicitor to act at the outset. Her case needs a specialist solicitor, not a general panel firm. 
If Aviva are allowed to use a panel solicitor, she wants to be able to appoint a 
specialist barrister to review the decision.
The policy wording is unclear and ambiguous so it should be interpreted in her 
favour.
Shes also provided quotes from our website and another legal expenses insurance policy 
for comparison. 
Aviva didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise the strength of feeling Miss S has for this complaint. Id like to reassure her that 
whilst Im aware I may have condensed some of the complaint points in far less detail and in 
my own words, Ive read and considered everything shes told us. Im satisfied Ive captured 
the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on every point individually, or 
possibly in the level of detail she would like, in order to reach what I think is a fair outcome. 
This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Having considered the further submissions made by Miss S, my decision on her complaint 
remains the same. Ill explain why. 
My provisional decision explained that I wasnt persuaded its unfair for Aviva to obtain the 
prospects assessment from its panel solicitors. My decision didnt address which solicitor 
should represent Miss S in her legal case should it be accepted under the policy terms for 
proportionate funding  rather, I only addressed who Aviva could obtain an assessment from 
which is the matter in dispute. 
Its standard practice in legal expenses claims that, even when a solicitor of the customers 
own choice (non-panel) is acting, an insurer will seek its own legal opinion from a panel firm. 
We dont consider that to be unfair, and I dont think its unfair here either  especially as, 
like Ive explained, this is a gesture of goodwill arrangement.
Miss S is concerned that the panel firms are generalist solicitors. This is not the case. In 
order for Aviva to rely on a legal assessment, it must be obtained from a suitably qualified 
lawyer. As such, the panel solicitor it instructs should be a specialist in the relevant area of 
law for this claim.
If the panel solicitors assessment isnt supportive of prospects, Miss S will have the option 
to provide a legal challenge  which can be from her chosen barrister if she wishes. But this 
would be at her own cost which is the usual process to dispute a legal assessment in legal 
expenses cases.
Ive also thought about Miss S comments that the policy wording is unclear and ambiguous. 
The policy wording says:
The lawyers assessment Our lawyer will assess the evidence and if it is more likely than not that you will: 
a. recover damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we have agreed to 
(e.g. being paid compensation or stopping a neighbour from making noise), or 
b. be successful in defending a claim made against you, or 
c. make a successful appeal or defence of an appeal then we will fund the case 
for you. 
When considering your case the lawyer:
a. Has a legal obligation not to waste court time and to keep the costs to a level 
that the court would consider reasonable. 
b. Will estimate the likely costs of your case and consider if they would be 
acceptable to a reasonable person who was paying those costs themselves. 
c. Will agree with you, where possible, a course of action where the costs and 
expenses would be considered reasonable by the court. 
If, in the lawyers opinion: 
a. your claim is likely to be considered a waste of court time, or 
b. the prospects of success are no longer in your favour, or 
c. your claim has reached a point where incurring further costs and expenses 
would not be reasonable 
then we will not pay any further costs and expenses towards it. If this happens the 
lawyer will tell you what options would be available should you wish to continue. 
Please note that prospects of success may change throughout your claim as 
evidence is obtained and legal arguments develop.
Miss S says its not made clear whether this means Aviva will not pay any legal costs from 
the outset if disproportionate, or from the point in the claim when they become 
disproportionate. But Im satisfied its made clear that these considerations are applicable 
throughout the life of the claim as they may change or develop over time. 
Its important that the policy document is read as a whole, rather than reading one line in 
isolation which may appear unclear and out of context on its own. The section quoted above 
is step two of three in a process of how Aviva will assess a claim. So I think its clear that it 
may decide at the outset that these policy conditions arent satisfied and refuse funding  or 
withdraw it during the life of the claim if it later becomes apparent that any further legal costs 
wouldnt be reasonable. 
In Miss S case, it was clear from the outset of her case that it wasnt proportionate to pursue 
which is why her claim was initially declined. And I dont consider this to be unfair. 
Furthermore, I dont consider the policy terms to be unclear or ambiguous. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, this complaint cannot be considered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service as it falls outside of our rules due to being referred to us too late.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Sheryl SibleyOmbudsman