DRN-3541493
The complaint
Ms S complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) has handled a claim she made
against her car insurance policy following an incident.
What happened
I previously issued my provisional decision on this case  I intended to come to the same 
outcome as the Investigator, but for different reasons. I wanted to give both parties the 
chance to respond to my provisional decision with anything else they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision. 
In June 2021, Ms S was involved in an incident she says she wasnt liable for. She says that
a third party (TP) vehicle drove into the back of her car while she was stationary. This
pushed her car into the car in front which also caused damage.
Ms S says the TP admitted they were at fault for the incident on video  the TP also had an
unrestrained puppy in the footwell of the car which Ms S has suggested was the likely cause
of the incident. Ms S says esure didnt ask her for a copy of the video and so she feels esure
assumed she was liable for the incident.
Ms S says she got in touch with the other party involved in the incident, who was also
insured with esure. This person told Ms S that esure had waived their excess and so Ms S
says she felt shed been treated unfairly by esure because it didnt agree to do the same for
her.
Later, esure wrote to Ms S to say it wouldnt renew her policy  again, Ms S felt this decision
was unfair. esure confirmed its decision not to renew the policy was due to the number of
claims Ms S had on her policy. However, Ms S doesnt feel that some of these claims have
been fairly recorded  and one claim in particular she was forced to accept on a 50/50 split
liability basis.
Ms S wasnt happy with how esure had progressed her claim. She says she was given
misleading information about the status of her claim and it wasnt until she contacted the TPI
direct that she found out that esure hadnt notified it of the claim. Or that the TP hadnt
notified their insurer of the incident. Ms S says that once the third party insurer (TPI) had
spoken to the TP, they again admitted fault. So Ms S cant understand why there was a fault
claim against her.
Ms S complained to esure about these things, but esure didnt uphold her complaint. It
explained its claims process and that it had followed this when investigating Ms Ss claim. As
a gesture of goodwill, esure agreed to reimburse Ms S for the excess. And it explained the
reason why it made the decision not to renew her policy.
Our Investigator looked into Ms Ss complaint too and upheld it in part. The Investigator
thought that esure should have notified the TPI sooner of the incident, and so it could have
started to investigate liability of the claim  and not doing so essentially delayed the claims
process. They also thought that Ms S had been given misleading information about the
claims process. Because of this, the Investigator thought esure should compensate Ms S by
paying her £100. The Investigator didnt though uphold other elements of Ms Ss complaint 
the policy excess not initially being waived, esures decision not to renew her policy and the
allegations of discrimination that Ms S made about esure.
esure responded to the Investigators assessment to say it didnt agree. It said that its normal
process would be to send information about the claim to the TPI once it has received the
costs. It said the TPI would have been unlikely to accept liability without receiving the costs
and in any event, the claim would only have been closed once the full claims costs had been
received.
Ms S also responded to say she didnt agree and requested that an Ombudsman look into
her complaint again.
Because neither party agreed, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on
the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Ive noted that some of Ms Ss complaint relates to things that have happened since she first
came to this service with her complaint  for example, esure not being able to find
recordings or details about some of the calls she had with them. That esure wont tell her
how much the repairs cost. And that she has struggled to get insurance elsewhere. I wont
be covering these points in this provisional decision, because I dont think this is something
that esure has investigated  so if Ms S does want to take this further then shell need to
complain to them about this point.
Broadly, the issues Ms S has complained about and that Ill be looking into as part of this
decision relate to the following points:
esure recording a fault claim on the internal and external databases  for an incident 
she says she wasnt liable for.
esure not asking her for evidence which supports her view that she wasnt liable for 
the incident.
esure not reimbursing her the excess she paid  especially given that she says that 
one of the other parties involved in the incident was reimbursed their excess. Ms S 
says she believes she has been discriminated against as a result.
esure continually gave Ms S misleading information about the status of her claim and 
caused delays during the claims process.
esures decision not to renew her insurance.
esure recording a fault claim on the internal and external databases  for an incident she says she wasnt liable for.
Its worth noting here that where an insurer is unable to recover everything it's paid out for a
claim, the claim is recorded as fault on internal and external databases. A fault claim
doesnt relate to whether a party is liable or not, or the cause of the incident  it simply
relates to whether or not an insurer was able to recover the full costs of the claim made
against the policy.
This is important in this case, as it seems Ms S feels she has been treated unfairly because
of how esure initially recorded the claim against her. Generally, any open claim is recorded
as a fault up until the point that it is either paid by the TP or the TPI. Once an insurer, like
esure, has recovered the full cost of the claim, theyll then record the claim as a non fault.
But if they dont recover the full costs of the claim, it will remain a fault claim.
In this case, esure recorded the open claim as a fault claim while it was being investigated.
I think this is fair because esure hadnt received a payment from the TPI at this point. esure
says the TPI paid the full cost of the claim in October 2021  and, it was at this point esure
recorded the claim as non-fault. I dont think Ms S has been treated unfairly here  this is
normal practice across insurers.
esure not asking her for evidence which supports her view that she wasnt liable for the
incident.
I can see Ms S is unhappy that esure hasnt requested evidence from her when it reviewed
her claim  she says she has a video where the TP has admitted liability and esure didnt
ask for this. Based on what Ive seen, it was esures intention to hold the TP liable to pay the
costs of the claim. I would only consider upholding this complaint on this point where esure
held Ms S liable for the incident and it didnt request evidence from Ms S that might change
the outcome of the claim. But esure didnt hold Ms S liable for the claim, so even if it had
requested the video Ms S says she had, the outcome on liability wouldnt change, and so I
dont find that esure has done anything wrong here.
I can understand Ms Ss frustration with the uncertainty regarding the liability aspect of the
claim  especially given that she had evidence where the TP admitted causing the incident.
However, esure needed to get the TPI to accept liability before it could proceed with the
claim. So it couldnt have given Ms S a definite outcome as to the liability of the claim until
this had been agreed by esure and the TPI. This again is normal procedure.
esure not reimbursing her the excess she paid  especially given that she says that one of
the other parties involved in the incident was reimbursed their excess. Ms S says she
believes she has been discriminated against as a result.
I can see Ms S has also raised concerns about not being treated the same at the other
individual involved in the incident  also insured by esure. I cant comment on this fully  
because I dont have much information about the other claim  and I cant consider another
parties claim as part of this decision. However, based on what Ive seen and esures
rationale for reimbursing the other parties excess, this doesnt seem unreasonable. esure
are within its rights to assess a claim on its individual merits and take certain actions it feels
are fair in the circumstances of that claim. While I appreciate that to Ms S it might seem that
esure has treated her differently to the other party, from what I understand about the
circumstances surrounding the other claim, they are different, even though on the face of
things they might look the same.
I can understand Ms Ss strength of feeling on this point though. And I can understand that
from her point of view, esures decision to reimburse the excess for one party involved in theincident and not the other might seem incredibly unfair. But for the reasons Ive already
explained above, I dont think esures decision here was unfair  or as a result of esure
discriminating against her.
Ms S has also suggested that she was given incorrect information about how she should go
about claiming back her excess. I should say here that looking at Ms Ss policy documents, it
does state that the excess is payable per claim  whether Ms S was liable or not. So esure
were right to ask Ms S to pay this. I dont think it was wrong of esure to let Ms S know that
this should be claimed through the TPI direct. Excess isnt something that is covered under
the policy, and because Ms S didnt have additional cover for Motor Legal Protection, the
correct process was for Ms S to attempt to recover the excess herself.
In any event, I can see that esure has reimbursed Ms S for the excess as a gesture of
goodwill, so Ms S hasnt lost out here, and she hasnt had to go into the additional effort of
claiming this back herself. Because of this, I wont be asking esure to do anything more for
Ms S in relation to the excess.
esure continually gave Ms S misleading information about the status of her claim and
caused delays during the claims process.
Our Investigator upheld part of Ms Ss complaint because they felt there had been delays in
the claims process. esure hasnt really provided this service with much information to show
what it did and when. I can see that it was notified of the claim in June 2021, Ms Ss car went
in for repairs in August 2021, and repair work was completed mid-August 2021. esure then
sent information to the TPI about the claim on 1 September 2021. I agree with our
Investigator that esure could have notified the TPI about the claim sooner than it did  by the
time the TPI had been made aware of the claim a number of months had passed. In some
cases, a timely notification of the incident could be very important, given that an individuals
recollections of what happened at the time of the incident are likely to be less clear  and
vital evidence to determine liability could be unobtainable if left too late. But in this case, a
more timely notification of the incident to the TPI wouldnt have made a difference to Ms S
given that the TPI has accepted liability.
esure says it didnt send the TPI information about the claim until it had received the repair
costs  and this is its normal process. I can see that this happened a couple of weeks after
the repairs had been completed  which I dont find to be an unreasonable amount of time.
The claim couldnt have been settled until the full claims costs had been received so I dont
think an earlier notification of the claim would have reduced the time it took to settle the
claim. Given that an earlier notification of the claim to the TPI hasnt affected the outcome of
the claim and esure sent the TPI information about the claim within a reasonable time period
from when it received evidence of the repair costs, I dont think esure needs to do anything
more to put things right for Ms S here.
Based on the information I have received from esure, it appears Ms S was given unclear and
misleading information about the status of the claim. It eventually took for Ms S to contact
the TPI herself to find out that esure hadnt in fact been in touch with it about the claim. I
think this unclear and misleading information has only led Ms S to further worry and
frustration. And so I intend to uphold this part of Ms Ss.
esures decision not to renew her insurance.
Finally, I can see that esure has declined to renew Ms Ss policy, which Ms S finds to be
unfair. Ultimately, its up to each insurer to decide what risks it is prepared to insure  and at
what cost. Generally, this service wont interfere in an insurers commercial appetite for risk.
But we will look to see if an insurer has treated a customer fairly, compared to its othercustomers in similar circumstances.
esure has sent this service its underwriting guidance that it has relied on to show that it has
treated Ms S in the same way as it would its other customers in similar circumstances. I cant
share this underwriting guidance with Ms S, because its contents are commercially sensitive.
However, I have found that esure has fairly applied this guidance when it made the decision
not to renew Ms Ss policy. And so, I dont think it acted unfairly in declining to renew Ms Ss
insurance.
I appreciate that Ms S doesnt feel as though previous claims were settled fairly, in particular
she says she was made to accept a settlement on a 50/50 liability basis. This isnt a
complaint Ms S raised with esure initially, and so it hasnt had the opportunity to investigate
this. For this reason, I havent considered this as part of this provisional decision. If Ms S
remains unhappy with this particular point, shell need to raise this with esure first.
I can see that Ms S has made comment that shes had to pay significantly more for her car
insurance since the incident. Its possible that any claim  whether fault or not  could impact
the cost of an insurance policy. Given that Ms Ss new insurance premiums were likely
calculated at the point an open fault claim was showing on the database for her, she might
want to let her new insurer know that this has now been settled as non-fault to see if that
insurer is happy to reduce the cost of the premiums on that basis.
For the reasons set out above, I intend to uphold Ms Ss complaint in part. Esure should pay
Ms S £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience unclear information
caused her.
Ms S didnt respond to my provisional decision  and so Ive assumed that she has nothing 
further to add. 
esure responded to the provisional decision to say it agreed with what Id said in the most 
part, however, it doesnt think that it should pay Ms S £100 as it says that it told her in the 
first instance how the claims process would work  and provided email evidence of this. It 
said that it did give her incorrect information during one phone call on 9 August 2021 about 
the status of the claim. However, it feels an apology is sufficient for this, and that it hasnt 
seen anything to suggest that it eventually took for Ms S to contact the TPI direct to find out 
that esure hadnt notified it of the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything on file again, it is still my decision to uphold this complaint.
Firstly, its disappointing that after asking esure for all correspondence it had with Ms S prior 
to me issuing my provisional decision, that it didnt send everything it had. Since I issued my 
provisional decision it has sent me an email, which it hadnt previously sent, which shows 
that once Ms S notified it of the claim, it let her know that it would contact the TPI once it had 
received a notification of the cost of the claim  it did this by email. So, based on this, Ms S 
ought to have been aware of esures process from the start of the claim. 
esure has accepted that it gave Ms S incorrect information during a phone call on 9 August 
2021  when it told her that it had notified the TPI about the claim. Im minded to agree with 
esure here that generally a mistake like this might only warrant an apology. But in this case, I 
think Ms S has been caused more upset than necessary by the information she was given. 
I say this because after this point on 9 August 2021, Ms S believed that esure had been in 
touch with the TPI about the claim  I see no reason why Ms S wouldnt have taken what 
she was told on face value. After this, Ms S called esure again on 19 August 2021, and there 
was no mention during this call that esure hadnt contacted the TPI. So again, I think it was 
reasonable of Ms S to believe that esure had been in touch with the TPI at this point.
Ms S then contacted esure again on 31 August 2021 asking for an update on her claim. The 
advisor told her that there hadnt been an admission of liability from the TPI yet, which was 
correct at this point in time, but this comment suggests that esure had been in contact with 
the TPI about the claim. The call continued on the basis that the TPI had 90 days to 
investigate the claim, but at no point was Ms S made aware that esure hadnt yet contacted 
the TPI. During this call, Ms S was told that she could call the TPI to find out what was 
happening with the claim and to get her excess back. Ms S clearly became very upset and 
distressed during this call.
In a second call Ms S makes to esure on 31 August 2021, Ms S confirms that she had 
contacted the TPI, as suggested during the previous call on the same day, and she says that 
upon doing so, she finds out that esure hasnt in fact contacted it about the claim, and it 
hadnt been made aware of the claim at all. During this call, esure told Ms S again that it had 
contacted the TPI on 15 June 2021  which esure has already confirmed wasnt correct.
Based on everything Ive said above, while I agree with esure that Ms S was made aware of 
the process at the start of the claim, I think the conversations she had at a later date misled 
Ms S into thinking that esure had been in touch with the TPI. Having listened to the calls, this 
was clearly important to Ms S as she was concerned about the liability aspect of her claim 
and being able to claim back her excess. Ms S is clearly shocked and upset during the 
second call on 31 August 2021 once she had been in contact with the TPI and found out that 
it wasnt aware of the claim at all. 
With the above in mind, I still think that £100 is a fair way to compensate Ms S for the 
unclear information she received about the claims process. 
Putting things right
esure must pay Ms S £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her when she was given unclear information about the progress of her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Ss complaint. I order esure Insurance Limited to 
put things right for Ms S by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman