DRN-3788723
The complaint
Mr R complains that Zilch Technology Limited hasnt provide him with the service it should 
have.  
What happened
Mr R contacted Zilch in February 2022 to say his email address had been compromised and 
he wanted to change this so that he could access his account. He says he wasnt allowed to 
change his address and so couldnt access his account and pay his outstanding balance. He 
says he raised his concerns on several occasions and was contacted by a Zilch employee to 
be told to send money to a bank account which he didnt do as he was concerned this wasnt 
secure. Mr R says this has resulted in issues on his account causing him stress. 
Zilch explained to Mr R that it didnt have the option for the email address on the account to 
be changed. It said this was for security reasons. It said Mr R could delete his account and 
open a new account with his new email address once the outstanding balance on his 
existing account had been cleared. It noted Mr Rs comment about the hold on his account 
and a payment being made and said Mr R was told an incorrect date for his next payment 
and that this payment took place as the block was for purchases. It noted that the issue had 
resulted in Mr R missing some payments and said that any late / missed payment events 
would be removed so these didnt affect Mr Rs new account. Zilch issued a further response 
providing Mr R with a statement of his account and confirming his outstanding balance. It 
reiterated that a new account couldnt be opened until the existing balance had been paid 
and said Mr Rs account was being passed to its collections team.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Zilchs response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She was satisfied that Zilch had acted in line 
with its policies. She said it wasnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to ask a 
business to alter its procedures.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view. He said it wasnt reasonable that his email 
address couldnt be changed and said that even after he had alerted Zilch to the issue it sent 
messages to his compromised email address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr R is frustrated by the issues that he has experienced in dealing 
with Zilch. But for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Zilch had 
done something wrong or treated Mr R unfairly. Based on the information provided I do not 
find this is the case for the following reasons:
Mr R contacted Zilch to inform it that his email had been compromised and to change 
his email so that he could gain access to his account. I understand that Mr R thought 
this would be a straightforward request and that changing his email address would 
allow him to reset his password and gain access to his account. Unfortunately, this 
wasnt possible. While I appreciate Mr Rs comments about Zilchs policy not to allow 
an email address to be changed, my role isnt to tell a business how to operate but 
instead to see if its approach has been applied correctly or resulted in Mr R being 
unfairly treated. In this case, Zilch explained that Mr R wasnt able to change the 
email address on his account and instead he was given an alternative solution which 
was to delete his account and open a new account with his new email address. I 
understand this wasnt the answer Mr R wanted but I cannot say that Zilch did 
anything wrong or treated him unfairly by informing Mr R of its policy which it 
explained was in place for security reasons and then providing him with an 
alternative solution.
Zilch has a policy that only one account can be open at a time. Therefore, Mr R was 
required to delete his existing account before setting up a new account. An existing 
account can only be deleted once the outstanding balance on that account has been 
cleared. I note Mr Rs comment about the balance being transferred, but I do not find 
I can require Zilch to do this when its terms and conditions set out that a customer 
can only have one account at a time, and it had clearly explained that the existing 
account would need to be deleted following the clearing on of the balance before a 
new account was opened.
Because Mr R didnt have access to his account, he wasnt able to see his 
outstanding balances. I can see why he wanted this information before making any 
payments. Zilch provided Mr R with screenshots of his outstanding payments and 
then subsequently a statement of his account. It confirmed his outstanding balance 
and so I find it did provide Mr R with the information he needed to be able to clear his 
account in order to setup a new account.
Mr R raised concerns about the payment information he was provided with. Security 
of payments is vital, and I appreciate Mr R felt particularly exposed due to the lack of 
visibility of his account. However, having looked through the communication from 
Zilch I can see that it did provide him with information about how to make payments 
and how these would be applied to his account. So, on balance, I find that Zilch did 
do enough to provide Mr R with an approach for him to make his payments.
Mr R is concerned that emails may have been sent to his email address after he 
notified Zilch that this had been compromised. It isnt my role to decide if a business 
has breached data protection laws, that is for the Information Commissioners Office 
to decide. I can consider whether Mr R has been caused any financial loss or 
distress and inconvenience by the way Zilch has handled his personal data. In this 
case I do not have evidence that emails were sent to Mr Rs email address after he 
alerted Zilch to the issue and even if this did happen, I do not have any evidence of 
this causing any material disadvantage to Mr R. Because of this, I do not find I can 
consider this part of his complaint further.Mr R wasnt always provided with the service he should have been. He was on one 
occasion told a wrong date for a payment and he was given unclear information 
about the nature of the block on his account. While I appreciate these issues will 
have been upsetting and annoying for Mr R, I do not find that the issues raised will 
have had a material adverse effect on Mr R and so I accept that the apology provided 
by Zilch for these issues is sufficient. 
Zilch said that due to the issues on Mr Rs account any late/ missed payment events 
wouldnt be transferred to a new account. I note Mr Rs comments about this, but I 
find this a reasonable offer to ensure that once Mr R had cleared his account, he was 
able to open a new account without these issue being transferred.
Overall, I understand why Mr R is upset that he wasnt able to change the email address on 
his account and with the service he then received. However, in this case I find that Zilch has 
provided Mr R with the information he needed to be able to clear his existing account and 
open a new account. It confirmed his transactions would be transferred to his new account 
and so he would then be able to continue as he had prior to the issue with his email address. 
Therefore, I do not require it to do anything further in resolution of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman