DRN-1680410
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as TSB) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened 
In 1997 Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with PPI to protect their monthly mortgage 
repayments if one or both of them couldnt work. 
Mr and Mrs G took out some additional borrowing on this account later on and it looks like 
they mightve increased the cover they had under their existing policy. So in my decision Im 
just concentrating on what happened when they were sold PPI in the first place with their 
mortgage in 1997.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs G 
disagree, and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats happened. 
Mr and Mrs G mainly say that they took out the PPI because they were told they had to have 
it. And theyre unhappy because the policy didn't pay out during the first three months of 
unemployment - so this meant Mr and Mrs G were unable to benefit from having the policy 
when Mr G lost his job.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Mr and Mrs G took out the mortgage in joint names and they both had PPI, so Ive looked at 
both their circumstances when the policy was taken out. 
Looking at the paperwork they completed, I think Lloyds made Mr and Mrs G aware that the 
PPI was optional and they chose to have it. 
I can see that theres a section on their mortgage application that asks if they want to have 
PPI where it says: Applying for TSB MortgageSure (this is what TSB called its PPI at the 
time). There were Yes and No PPI options. So although I dont know what was said about 
the PPI, Mr and Mrs G wouldve been able to see that it was up to them to say if they wanted 
PPI  it wasnt something they had to take out. 
And I can see the Yes option is ticked on the form Mr and Mrs G signed. And theyve both 
answered questions to check they were eligible and also marked the form to indicate that 
they wanted to split the policy benefits between them equally. They couldve ticked the no option instead if PPI wasnt something theyd wanted  this is left blank on Mr and Mrs Gs 
signed application.
As this happened so long ago, its easy to understand how Mr and Mrs G couldve forgotten 
some of these details now. And I cant be sure what was discussed between them and 
Lloyds at the time they took out the PPI. But what theyve said about the way they were sold 
this PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I have to take 
into account all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.
On balance, based on all the information I've seen, I think Mr and Mrs G decided at the time 
that they wanted to have the benefits that PPI offered and they chose to take out the policy.
Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold Mr and Mrs G the PPI. To be as fair as possible, it looked at 
their mis-sale complaint on the basis that it had recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs G during 
the meeting Mr and Mrs G mentioned having at the bank. Given the lack of paperwork 
showing how Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, I think this is the fairest way to assess 
this complaint as it imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a business makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear 
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.  
   
Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date when 
Mr and Mrs G took out the PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use 
shortly afterwards. So I think its reasonable to rely on this information and I think its likely 
that the policy Mr and Mrs G took out wouldve had substantially the same terms and 
conditions. 
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr and Mrs G werent both eligible for the policy 
given their circumstances.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Gs comments, including what theyve said about their 
sick pay and the other means they had to rely on if they werent working. But I think the 
policy still potentially offered them useful benefits. 
Mr and Mrs G told us they wouldve only been able to rely on sick pay from their employers 
for less than 3 months. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of their work benefits and for 
longer - up to 12 months per claim if Mr G and/or Mrs G couldnt work as a result of sickness 
or disability.  
Also the policy couldve paid out if Mr and Mrs G became unexpectedly unemployed. 
Although theyve mentioned having some other means they couldve relied on if they werent 
working, it doesnt mean that PPI wasnt suitable for them. 
I havent seen anything to show that they already had enough other means or PPI in place 
that covered their mortgage or that this policy duplicated existing cover. Life insurance 
provides a different sort of benefit and pays out in different circumstances to PPI. 
Looking at the information Ive got, I dont think its likely that either Mr G or Mrs G couldve 
easily managed the mortgage monthly repayments on their own for long if the other wasnt 
working. So, I think the policy offered Mr and Mrs G useful benefits.
Mr and Mrs G werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits. 
So, as they couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely that better 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve put them off taking it out.Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take out the policy, when they couldve 
said they didnt want to, and so it appears to me they did want to have this type of cover. 
There was some information about what the PPI would cost them each month set out in their 
mortgage offer. So Mr and Mrs G wouldve been able to see what they would have to pay for 
the policy. 
If it wasnt something they wanted to pay for, then they couldve opted out of the PPI at that 
stage. 
And given that they paid for the policy on a monthly basis they couldve cancelled it at any 
time later on without further cost. 
Their mortgage was a major financial commitment, and their home couldve been at risk if 
their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI 
was useful to have at the time  even if theyve forgotten this now. Looked at overall, it 
doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs G have lost out as a result of anything Lloyds did wrong. So it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs G have told 
us  including what theyve said in response to our adjudicators view letter. 
Im sorry to learn of the problems they faced when Mr G lost his job and was out of work. But 
that doesnt mean PPI must have been mis-sold when they took the policy out and it isnt a 
reason for me to uphold this complaint.
It looks like the policy terms allowed a claim to be put in for unemployment after 
60 continuous days off work, then benefit was payable from the first day off work and benefit 
became due on the 61st day. I dont think those are unusual or onerous terms. 
And if (as they say) they were told the qualifying period was 90 days before being able to 
claim, this still wouldnt be enough to change my mind  that would still be fairly typical of 
this sort of condition in policies of this type 
So what theyve told me isnt enough to change the outcome of their complaint. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give back to Mr and Mrs G some of the 
commission they paid. 
The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage 
became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. 
So Lloyds doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI they 
had with this mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Susan WebbOmbudsman