DRN-2888593
The complaint
Ms D complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) charged her an 
excess mileage fee when she returned a car at the end of a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In October 2015 Ms D entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement for a new car. At 
the end of the hire period she decided to return the car, rather than exercise her option to 
purchase. The cars odometer reading was around 41,000 miles. MBFS charged her an 
excess mileage fee of nearly £650. It said the mileage allowance was 8,000 miles a year or 
32,000 over four years; Ms D had exceeded that by around 9,000 miles.
Ms D said she thought there had been an error. She had made clear that she needed a 
mileage allowance of 10,000 miles. When she had queried the allowance in the agreement  
shortly after she signed it  she had been told that it was an error and that excess mileage 
would only be charged above 10,000 miles. She was expecting to pay something extra, but 
not as much as £650. She referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators 
considered what had happened. The investigator noted that, as well as the hire purchase 
agreement, Ms D had taken out a service plan which referred to her annual mileage as 
10,000 miles. Ms D had therefore reasonably believed that her mileage allowance was the 
same. The investigator recommended that MBFS recalculate the excess mileage on the 
basis of the higher allowance.
MBFS did not accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from 
that reached by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. In my provisional decision I 
said:
Generally, a person who signs a legal agreement is bound by its terms. The circumstances 
in which that is not the case are likely to very unusual.
In this case, the hire purchase agreement included:
If you do not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle  an excess distance charge 
will be payable at the rate of 6.00 pence (plus VAT) for each Mile, by which the total 
distance travelled by the vehicle at the end of the period of hire exceeds the allowed 
distance, calculated at the rate of 8000 miles per year, pro-rated for part years (see 
Condition 12).
Condition 12 was consistent with that but included more detail which is not relevant here. Ms 
D signed the hire purchase agreement below a statement saying she should only do so if 
she agreed to be bound by its terms.
Ms D says that, when she subsequently contacted the dealership, she was told that the 
mileage allowance was an error and that she would be sent amended paperwork. She was 
also given the impression that it was not important in any event. She did not receive any 
amended paperwork.
Ms D says that she also entered into a service agreement which indicated an annual 
mileage of 10,000 miles. That was consistent with her discussions about the allowance 
under the hire purchase agreement and her insurance arrangements.
I have considered whether any of these matters might be a reason to conclude that Ms D 
agreed something different from what was in the hire purchase agreement.
I note that Ms D did not receive an amended agreement. That indicates that the recorded 
mileage allowance was not an error. In any event an increased mileage allowance would 
have been reflected in a higher monthly rental, but no changes were made here.
I note what Ms D says about the service agreement. It was made with the dealership, not 
MBFS. The mileage noted in that agreement was not a limit but an indication of how much 
work might be required at each service. I accept that, as MBFS says, it could only be 
changed in increments of 10,000 miles. Similarly, Ms Ds insurance arrangements were a 
matter between her and her insurers; although it was a requirement under the hire purchase 
agreement that the car be insured, it was for her to arrange. The mileage given to the 
insurers would help them to assess the risk of providing cover; it wasnt evidence that Ms D 
had agreed a 10,000-mile annual allowance.
I therefore see no reason to conclude that Ms D agreed or should be treated as having 
agreed anything different from what was in the hire purchase agreement that she signed  
namely, that she had an annual allowance of 8,000 miles and would be charged at 6p a mile 
plus VAT for anything above that.  
MBFS accepted my provisional findings. Ms D did not respond to them.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither MBFS nor Ms D has said anything in response to my provisional decision that 
would lead me to a different conclusion, I have not changed my view about this case should 
be resolved.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited to take any further steps to resolve Ms Ds complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision 
before 30 July 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman