DRN-2935727
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the repairs carried out and for the delay caused by The National
Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) when he made a claim under his
commercial vehicle policy.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr Ms vehicle was involved in an incident with another car. Mr M took his
vehicle to NFUs approved repairer (AR) and they identified fresh damage to the rear of his
vehicle  in addition to the main damage to the front offside wing and door.
In July 2019 NFU approved repairs to Mr Ms vehicle. Mr M arranged for his vehicle to be
repaired in September 2019. When he picked it up in October 2019 he discovered that the
repairs to the rear werent included in the repairs approved by NFU. Mr M made a series of
complaints to NFU IN October and November 2019. In summary they were:
NFU failed to tell him it wouldnt be covering the repairs to the rear as non-incident
related damage.
NFU had prejudiced his position as by the time an engineer physically inspected the
rear damage it was no longer fresh. The first engineer relied on photos provided by
the garage  and failed to discuss with the AR who identified the damage. Mr M said
he would have arranged for his own expert to examine the disputed rear damage
when it was fresh if hed known NFU wasnt going to repair it.
Mr Ms vehicle was with the AR for over four weeks and still not fully repaired as had
to be returned to fit a door sill. This was far longer than the one week Mr M said he
was told the repairs would take. The replacement vehicle during the repairs wasnt suitable 
for Mr Ms business and caused him serious inconvenience.
NFU said it had discussed the rear damage repair with the AR in June 2019 and concluded it
wasnt incident related. Between July and September 2019 the AR said it made multiple
attempts to discuss the repairs with Mr M but he didnt respond. When it finally was able to
speak with him in September 2019, the AR failed to mention the rear damage wouldnt be
repaired. So NFU upheld this part of Mr Ms complaint.
It didnt uphold the rest of Mr Ms complaints. NFU said it instructed a second engineer to
physically inspect Mr Ms vehicle and he found the damage to the rear wasnt related to the
incident. And it said if Mr M wanted to obtain an equivalent expert report and this showed
NFU had made a mistake, it would reimburse him for the costs of the report and arrange the
repairs.
NFU said there was some delay due to a back order of parts to repair Mr Ms vehicle. This
was outside the ARs control  and the AR updated Mr M regularly during this time.
For failing to tell Mr M the rear damage wouldnt be covered, NFU paid Mr M £100
compensation.
In December 2019 Mr M returned the cheque for £100 to NFU. He said he left his vehicle to
be inspected by the AR in May 2019 but it took seven weeks to approve repairs in July 2019.
He said the reason why he didnt arrange for his vehicle to be booked in for repairs was
because he needed a suitable replacement vehicle and was waiting for an update from the
AR for two months between July 2019 and September 2019. He found it incredible that it
took four weeks for a replacement tyre to arrive after order. And after four weeks Mr M
collected his car with the door sill repair still outstanding.
He wanted NFU to evidence that the AR had made multiple attempts to contact him. Mr M
said the updates he received during repairs were because he called the AR.
In January 2020 NFU referred to records the AR kept of their attempts to contact Mr M. NFU
couldnt find a record of Mr M chasing the AR for updates. It said Mr M called NFU in July
2019 and was correctly told that his policy doesnt provide a like for like replacement vehicle.
NFU reiterated that Mr M had discussed concerns about liability as well as wanting a similar
replacement vehicle for the duration of repairs.
NFU said parts were ordered in September 2019 and some arrived. The rest were on back
order outside of the control of the AR.
As requested, NFU provided the qualifications of the engineers who inspected Mr Ms
vehicle: by way of photos and physically.
In May 2020 Mr M contacted us to look at his complaint. He said he was told the repairs
would take one working week. He wasnt told about a delay until two weeks into the repair
time. If hed been informed beforehand, he said he wouldnt have arranged for his vehicle to
be left with the AR until all parts had arrived as he needed his vehicle to carry out his work.
He said the replacement vehicle he was provided with wasnt sufficient and caused
significant inconvenience and hardship.
Mr M wanted NFU to repair the disputed damage, compensate him for the inconvenience
caused and answer all of his complaints.
Our investigator thought NFU had done enough to resolve Mr Ms complaint. Mr M didnt
agree. 
I issued a provisional decision on 25 June 2021. I didnt think there was sufficient evidence 
to show the damage to the rear of Mr Ms vehicle was caused by the incident. I thought NFU 
should compensate Mr M for the time his vehicle was with the repairer. I intended to ask 
NFU to pay Mr M £300 compensation in addition to the £100 it had already awarded. 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision and there is no new information, my final 
decision is along the same lines. For ease the complaints have been set out under headings 
below.
Disputed incident related damage
When there is a dispute as to incident related damage. we look at all of the availableinformation. In this case, the AR provided close up photos of the rear of Mr Ms car. It isnt
unusual for an engineer to be able to reach a decision about repairs by relying on photos for
damage. But NFU subsequently arranged a physical examination by another engineer.
The main damage to Mr Ms vehicle was caused by impact from another car to the front
offside as they tried to overtake while Mr M was turning into a petrol station. I appreciate that
Mr M says the rear damage wasnt there before. And because the AR told Mr M the damage
was fresh, he believes it should have been covered. But I dont think this is enough to safely
conclude that. The damage was inspected by two engineers. Due to the incident
circumstances, its reasonable to see damage all across the side of Mr Ms vehicle  not in
two separate places with no damage in between. It is worth bearing in mind that it is the
policyholders responsibility to prove that damage or loss is related to an insured event.
Having reviewed all of the information, I think the engineers conclusions were reasonable as
no connection has been shown between the rear damage and the impact from the other car
as described. So I think NFUs decision not to cover this damage was fair.
I think NFUs offer to Mr M to obtain a report to support his view was a reasonable approach
to take. But I understand Mr M decided against this due to the costs likely to be more than
the cost of the repairs.
Theres no dispute that the AR failed to manage Mr Ms expectations in July 2019 by not
telling him the damage to the rear of his vehicle wouldnt be covered. So I can understand
Mr Ms frustration and disappointment when he collected his car in October 2019 as this was
the first time he was made aware of this. I think the £100 compensation NFU paid Mr M is
fair and reasonable for the poor service provided.
Courtesy car
I understand the AR tried to accommodate Mr M by providing a similar vehicle to his from
July 2019 - but this was over and above the requirement under his policy with NFU. NFU
says for the duration of repairs it will provide a basic hatchback car. As a van was provided
when Mr M made arrangements for his vehicle to be repaired in September 2019, I think Mr
M was treated fairly here. However, Ive made a finding in relation to the impact on Mr M of 
not having use of his usual vehicle below.
Delay
I think there was a delay between 29 May 2019 and 17 July 2019. This was from the date Mr
Ms vehicle was inspected by the AR and the date NFU approved repairs. I havent found
anything to justify the delay here.
In relation to the second period of delay - NFU says the AR ordered the parts to repair Mr
Ms vehicle on 6 September 2019. And it has provided records from the AR. These show
that some of the parts arrived on 9 September 2019 in preparation for the repairs, but not all.
The tyre arrived on 9 October 2019. On 16 October 2019 the AR updated Mr M to say the sill
was still on back order. This arrived after Mr M collected his vehicle in October 2019 and the
remaining repairs were carried out in November 2019.
I appreciate that Mr M finds it hard to believe it took four weeks for a tyre to arrive. But Im
satisfied from the AR records that it ordered the parts on 6 September 2019 and the tyre
didnt arrive until 9 October 2019. I dont think this delay was something the AR could have
reasonably avoided.
However, Mr M says he didnt take his vehicle to the AR for repairs until 16 September 2019and was advised they would take one working week. This is in the range of time on the ARs
notes of an estimated completion date of 26 September 2019  10 days. NFU confirmed the
AR billed for a total of 20.5 hours in total for the repairs.
Mr M says because he was without his vehicle for longer than anticipated, this caused
significant disruption. He says he uses his vehicle to farm livestock and works on land
covering a distance of over 10 miles. He uses his vehicle daily on and off road, towing
trailers for either livestock or goods. Not having use of his vehicle meant it was very difficult
for him to carry out his usual daily activities.
Mr M accepts he wasnt entitled to a similar replacement vehicle. But he says if the AR had
told him before 16 September 2019 that not all parts had arrived, he would have delayed
taking his vehicle in until they had. But the AR failed to tell him, so he wasnt able to make an
informed decision beforehand  even though the AR knew not all parts had arrived - and he
believes this is unfair.
Having carefully considered what Mr M says here, Im persuaded that the AR  and
therefore NFU as the AR acts as their agent  provided a poor service to Mr M. In this case,
I think it was clear to NFU and the AR from earlier conversations of the importance for Mr M
to have a similar vehicle while his vehicle was being repaired. And so I think it was
reasonable for the AR to have properly managed Mr Ms expectations and told him not all
parts were available before he brought his vehicle in for repairs.
So I think Mr M should be compensated for the delay of over and above ten days  as had
all parts been available, I think this is how long it would have taken to repair his vehicle. I
think Mr M accepted that this would be the case  and it was on this basis that he brought
his vehicle in to the AR when he did. And I believe that  had the AR managed his
expectations  Mr M would have waited and rearranged the repairs until such time as all
parts were available. So the impact on Mr M and his daily working life would have been for a
much shorter period. And it would have avoided the need to have to return his vehicle for a
second time as he did in November 2019 for the sill repair.
Putting things right
I think the fairest outcome in this case is for NFU to pay Mr M compensation for the
inconvenience of not having use of his own vehicle for three weeks. For this I think NFU
should pay £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require The National Farmers' Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay Mr M a further £300 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by the ARs failure to manage Mr Ms expectations before repairs 
began and the inconvenience that followed from this. This is in addition to the £100 
compensation NFU paid Mr M for failing to tell him repairs to the rear wouldnt be covered  
which he rejected. So I require NFU to pay Mr M a total of £400 compensation to include the 
returned cheque of £100.
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.If The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman