DRN-4107669
The complaint
A business, which Ill refer to as T, is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) still consider one of the business partners who left the business to be jointly and 
severally liable for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) balance. 
This complaint is brough this service by the partner who left T, who Ill refer as Mr K, and the 
partner who remained and who took over T on a sole trader basis, who Ill refer to as Miss L.
What happened
Mr K and Miss L ran a business together, for which they had a NatWest business bank 
account in their joint names. In March 2014, Mr K and Miss Ls business relationship ended, 
with Miss L continuing the business without Mr K on a sole trader basis.
In 2022, Mr K received a letter from a debt collection agency informing him that NatWest 
were seeking recovery of an outstanding BBL balance that he was liable for. Mr K 
discovered that the BBL had been taken out in relation to T in his and Miss Ls joint names 
without his knowledge or consent. Mr K wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. 
NatWest responded to Mr K and explained that they had no record of Mr K being removed or 
requesting to be removed from Ts business bank account. NatWest also explained that 
because the BBL had been applied for in relation to Ts business bank account  which Mr K 
remained a jointly named party on  they didnt feel that they were acting unfairly by 
considering him to be jointly and severally liable for the BBL debt. Mr K wasnt satisfied with 
NatWests response and wanted NatWest to transfer the BBL to Miss Ls sole name. So, 
with Miss Ls consent, he referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that there wasnt any dispute 
that Mr K hadnt been involved with T when Miss L applied for the BBL in relation to Ts 
business bank account. So, they liaised with NatWest who agreed to transfer the BBL to 
Miss Ls sole name so long as both Mr K and Miss L formally agreed for them to do so. 
Our investigator felt NatWests offer was fair. However, while Mr K formally agreed to 
transfer the BBL to Miss Ls sole name, Miss L did not. And our investigator felt that any 
continuing disagreement should be considered a civil dispute between Mr K and Miss L  
which it wouldnt be within the remit of this service to become involved in. 
Mr K didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator and felt that 
NatWest should be instructed by this service to transfer liability for the BBL to Miss Ls sole 
name. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that NatWest have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr K hasnt been involved with T for several years. So, 
I can appreciate why he would feel it unfair that the BBL was able to be successfully applied 
for by Miss L without his knowledge or consent, and that NatWest presently hold him jointly 
and severally liable for the BBL balance  which relates to loan funds which he never 
received or had the benefit of. 
Accordingly, Ive considered whether NatWest have done anything wrong here, both in 
allowing the BBL to be successfully applied for by Miss L and in their holding Mr K liable for 
the outstanding balance. 
When Mr K and Miss Ls business relationship ended in 2014, when Mr K relinquished his 
interest in T, it was incumbent on Mr K to have ensured that he was removed from all Ts 
business arrangements, including the jointly named NatWest business bank account. 
Unfortunately, Mr K appears not to have done this. And NatWest have confirmed that they 
have no record of ever being told that Mr K wasnt involved with T or of receiving any request 
to remove Mr K from the joint bank account. And while Mr K has explained that he filled out a 
form at Miss Ls request which he gave to Miss L and was told by Miss L would remove him 
from the business bank account, it appears that Miss L never progressed this matter with 
NatWest. And that Mr K didnt follow up or confirm this matter with NatWest himself. 
As such, I dont feel that NatWest have acted unfairly by continuing to maintain Mr K as a 
joint account holder on the business bank account  because theyve never been given any 
information by either Mr K or Miss L which should have given them cause to do otherwise. 
Additionally, the terms of the NatWest joint named business bank account allow for loans 
such as a BBL to be applied for by one of the named account holders without the need for 
the second named account holder to provide their confirmation or consent. This meant that 
the terms of the business bank account allowed Miss L to apply for the BBL without the 
confirmation or consent of the other named account holder  Mr K. 
And so, given the terms of the business bank account, and given that Mr K remained a 
named party on the account  for which, as explained above, I feel Mr K himself must bear 
the primary responsibility  I dont feel that NatWest acted unfairly by accepting and 
approving the jointly named BBL application received from Miss L as they did.
However, while I dont feel NatWest have done anything wrong by maintaining Mr K as a 
joint holder of the account or by allowing the BBL to be successfully applied for by Miss L 
without Mr Ks consent, it does seem apparent that Mr K wasnt involved with T when Miss L 
applied for the BBL and so wasnt aware that a loan for which he was considered jointly 
liable for had been applied for and received by Miss L. 
NatWest have also acknowledged this, and theyve agreed to transfer the BBL to Miss Ls 
sole name, thus absolving Mr K of any liability for the BBL, on the condition that both Mr K 
and Miss L formally agree to their doing so.This seems fair to me, and I dont feel that NatWest should reasonably be instructed to 
remove Mr K from the BBL account with the formal consent of both Mr K and Miss L, given 
that Im satisfied that NatWest havent done anything wrong here and given that the reason 
that Mr K remained a named party on the business bank account was because of the 
combined failure of Mr K and Miss L to inform NatWest that Mr K was no longer a party to 
the business.
It's my understanding at present that Mr K has given his formal consent to transfer the BBL 
to Miss Ls sole name, while Miss L has not. This means that NatWest havent received the 
consent of both parties to make the change, and so havent done so. 
In this circumstance, while I can appreciate Mr Ks frustration, I feel that any continuing 
disagreement between Miss L and himself is a civil dispute and isnt one thats within the 
remit of this service to get involved in. Instead, the remit of this service is to assess whether 
NatWest should be considered to have acted unfairly here. And, for the reasons explained 
above, I dont feel that NatWest have acted unfairly. 
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Ts favour, Ill only be 
doing so to compel NatWest to honour the offer they made to Mr K and Miss L. Specifically, 
that NatWest must transfer the BBL to Miss Ls sole name if they receive formal consent 
from both Mr K and Miss L to do so.
Putting things right
NatWest must transfer the BBL to Miss Ls sole name if they receive formal consent from 
both Mr K and Miss L to do so.
If consent to transfer the BBL is not received from both Mr K and Miss L, then NatWest are 
under no obligation to transfer the BBL, and I consider any continuing disagreement 
between Mr K and Miss L about that matter to be a civil dispute.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc on 
the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman