DRN-3047356
The complaint
Ms H complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited has unfairly charged her for damage to a 
car she returned following the termination of a finance agreement. 
What happened
Ms H took out a finance agreement with MotoNovo in March 2019 to buy a used car. Ms H 
borrowed £5499 over 49 months. In March 2021 Ms H decided to voluntarily terminate the 
finance agreement and return the car. The car was inspected and collected on 25 March 
2021. Ms H was charged £446 for damage to the alloy wheel and scratches to the paintwork 
together with a dent.
Ms H didnt agree with most of the charges and said that the car was supplied with scratches 
which had been covered up. Ms H complained to MotoNovo and said that scratches and 
damage were to be expected on a used car and amounted to fair wear and tear. MotoNovo 
didnt agree that the charges were unfair and without any evidence that they were there at 
the start of the agreement it refused to reduce the charges. Ms H brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator looked into Ms Hs concerns. They thought that all the charges, except for 
the dent were outside fair wear and tear industry guidelines and Ms H had been fairly 
charged for them. Our investigator thought that MotoNovo should remove the charge for the 
dent.
MotoNovo didnt reply and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. Ms H didnt 
provide any further comments on the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them in detail in this decision. 
Instead Ill focus on giving reasons for my conclusions.
I can see from the terms and conditions that Ms H agreed to keep the car in good condition 
and pay for any damage that was outside fair wear and tear until she became the owner of 
the car under the finance agreement.
I have considered the inspection report and the photographs of the damage to the car. I 
have also measured this against the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) guidelines about what amounts to fair wear and tear.
With regard to the items on the inspection report except for the dent, I agree with the 
conclusions of the investigator. The damage is outside what could be considered fair wear 
and tear and the charges are fair and reasonable. Ms H was aware that she would be 
responsible for these charges as part of the agreement that she signed. I havent seen any 
evidence that the scratches were present when Ms H bought the vehicle and so in the 
absence of that information, I cant say that the charges are unfair.
With regard to the dent, like the investigator, I cannot conclude from the photograph that 
there is a dent present. It is described as report only rather than a conclusion that it should 
be repaired unlike the other items of damage within the report. This would suggest that the 
inspector did not consider it was severe enough to breach the wear and tear guidelines and 
was for information only. In these circumstances I dont think that Ms H has been fairly 
charged for this item of damage. 
For these reasons I think that MotoNovo should remove this charge. In relation to the other 
items of damage, based on the evidence I have seen I cant ask MotoNovo to do anything 
more.      
Putting things right
MotoNovo should remove the charge of £35 for repair of the dent.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and MotoNovo Finance Limited should put 
things right as set out above and remove the £35 charge from Ms Hs outstanding bill.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman