DRN-2442265
The complaint
Mr and Ms M complain Ageas Insurance Limited declined their buildings insurance claim. 
All references to Ageas also include their agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy says Ageas will cover subsidence, but it says it wont cover subsidence 
where the loss or damage arises from faulty design, specification, workmanship or 
materials
Ageas declined Mr and Ms Ms claim because they felt the foundations of the 
extension were of inadequate design  and were to an incorrect depth 
Ageas wrote to Mr and Ms M to confirm this in June 2020, quoting a link to guidelines 
from another organisation which they said they confirm their position. But I dont 
think these guidelines are relevant here
I can see the work was signed off by building control from the local authority, taking 
into consideration building regulations at that time. So I think the Building 
Regulations for the time are what is relevant in this case. Ageas have pointed out 
the Building Regulations say the foundations needed to be at least 1,000mm to meet 
the minimum requirements set out. 
But I can also see Ageas observed tree roots were found at 1,400mm and 1,500mm 
at a clay soil level. Which is further below the 1,000m minimum in the regulations, 
below 1,200mm where the made ground ended at the time of construction and, 
below 1,350mm  which would match the foundation depth of the main property. So 
while I can appreciate there is an argument the foundation could have been deeper, 
evidence suggests movement would have happened anyway
So, in taking into consideration everything Ive said above, Im not persuaded Ageas were 
fair to rely on the exclusion to decline Mr and Ms Ms complaint.
Putting things right
Ageas should deal with the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Considering all of the information provided by both parties and the circumstances, Ageas 
should pay Mr and Ms M £750 compensation - as I think this fairly represents the 
inconvenience they have been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Ms Ms complaint. 
To put things right Ageas Insurance Limited should:
Deal with the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Pay Mr and Ms M £750 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman