DRN-4086173
The complaint
V, a limited company, complains about the way that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited  
trading as Cashplus Bank wanted to deal with a payment V said was fraudulent.
What happened
The director of V contacted Cashplus about a card payment of £59.99 in December 2022 
that he said had been taken fraudulently. He is unhappy that Cashplus wouldnt treat this as 
fraud but instead wanted him to complete a transaction dispute form that he didnt think 
applied. And he expected to be compensated.
Cashplus said it hadnt made a mistake. V had previously made a payment to the merchant 
involved in October 2022. This further payment had been processed on the basis of an 
existing authorisation and the merchant had stored Vs details. So, it told V that it would 
either need to contact the merchant directly or follow its transaction dispute process. It 
pointed out the timescales for a chargeback.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He encouraged V to 
complete the transaction dispute form before the time period allowed for dispute by the 
relevant card scheme had passed. And to note exactly what the director believed to be the 
position in the comments. The director told him he had done that but wanted compensation 
for distress of £100. And for Vs complaint to be referred to an ombudsman given what 
happened, and the time involved.
Cashplus further said that as the complaint hadnt been upheld there was no basis for it to 
offer to pay £100.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not now looking at whether or not this payment was authorised by V. The issue is how 
Cashplus wanted to deal with Vs claim that it hadnt made the payment and that it was 
fraud.
I note that our investigator has had calls with the director about this. The director was 
concerned about making statements on a form that he didnt think applied. I understand that 
he has completed the form for V. 
This service isnt the regulator and we dont have a role in setting Cashplus processes. We 
provide informal dispute resolution. 
I consider Cashplus has explained why it wants to deal with this payment as a transaction 
dispute. That will require the merchant through the relevant card scheme to show that it had 
a basis to charge V. And as appropriate for V to respond to that. There is no indication here 
that Vs details have been compromised and it seems that its stored details may have been 
used under a recurring arrangement. I dont think Cashplus has made a mistake in applying 
its normal process here for V.
There is always an element of unavoidable inconvenience when making any such claim 
about a payment which I dont see Cashplus is fairly responsible for. And I note V is a limited 
company that cant suffer distress. I dont have a basis to find that Cashplus has done 
anything wrong here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman