DRN-3702197
The complaint
Mr L complained that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) didnt action his account 
withdrawal request in a timely manner which resulted in him losing out on an investment 
opportunity. 
To put things right, Mr L feels fair compensation should reflect the fact that he wouldve 
made a return of at least £50,000 had he been able to complete the withdrawal and invest 
that money as he had intended.    
What happened
I have reconstructed a timeline of events which sets out the background to Mr Ls complaint. 
12 August 2020 - Mr L sent NS&I an application to register for its online and telephone 
service with his Income Bond account. When this was received, NS&I incorrectly wrote to 
Mr L requesting a witnessed signature. This wasnt required as it already held a signature on 
file for him.
2 October 2020 - NS&I received Mr Ls requested witnessed signature along with a paper 
Income Bond cash in form requesting withdrawal of £100,000. 
7 October 2020 - NS&I completed its security checks and the payment was processed on to 
Mr Ls nominated bank account. 
15 October 2020 - NS&I sent Mr L a temporary password to manage his account.
27 October 2020  Mr L still didnt have online access to his account and he went online to 
examine the new NS&I website in detail. 
28 October 2020  Mr L realised that without needing to access his own account to do this, 
he was able to fill in an online withdrawal request form, which he did  and NS&I received 
his request to withdraw a further £100,000. NS&I explained that in usual circumstances, it 
verifies the nominated bank details given on the request and its security team will contact the 
customer by phone to carry out some security before completing the payment. If unable to 
contact the customer by telephone within 24 hours of the request being received, NS&I will 
write to the customer asking them to make contact. NS&I told us that regrettably, there was 
confusion internally between its repayments department and its security team which caused 
a considerable delay in processing these instructions.
29 October 2020 - Mr L received his NS&I number and temporary password, which he 
changed to a password of his own choice over the phone and at the same time he also set 
up his own security questions so he would in future be able to verify his identity over the 
phone. He then went online a couple of minutes later and tried to log in to his account but 
the details he entered were incorrect  Mr L thought this mightve happened because he 
may have mistakenly entered the previous temporary password stored on his browser. And 
so, after five consecutive failed attempts this resulted in his security becoming suspended 
and he was locked out of his online account. 
Mr L contacted the NS&I helpline to request a password reset. The representative he spoke 
to attempted to reset his security using a third party identity check but no security questions 
were generated. NS&I told us that if a customer does not have a valid password set up on 
their account or they have suspended their security, it can use an external provider to 
confirm identity so new security can be set up from a phone call. Unfortunately, this only 
works for customers who live in the UK, which didnt cover Mr Ls circumstances, so it 
couldnt verify his identity using this check. This meant that NS&I required Mr L to complete 
a forgotten security details form. Mr L was anxious to establish whether NS&I would be 
sending him a new password so he could unlock his account. He explained that post to and 
from his home took around 2 weeks to be received. The NS&I representative could only say 
that he would either receive a signature request form or a temporary password  it would be 
one of the two  and that the form would be put in the mailbox for posting to Mr L the 
following morning.
12 November 2020 - Mr L called NS&I again after receiving this form, querying why he had 
been sent a form to complete asking for a temporary password when he thought hed be 
getting a temporary password  which wasnt included. He again explained the delays he 
would face if paperwork had to go through the post. Mr L explained he was still awaiting the 
£100,000 repayment which he had requested on 28 October. 
The representative couldnt say why Mr L hadnt yet received his money when he ought to 
have done by now. Mr L tried to explore other options for accessing his money. NS&I told 
him that it couldnt re-set his password over the phone as it didnt hold a secure phone 
number for him. Mr L disputed this - he said he had already provided this information and 
indeed used it when he went through the security questions he was asked when he phoned. 
NS&I explained that as the system wasnt generating any security questions it could ask him, 
the best way forward was for Mr L to complete the form and return it. As it had not been possible to authenticate Mr Ls identity as the Bond holder, the 
representative was only able to provide general information rather than any specific update 
on the progress of Mr Ls withdrawal request. He explained that the repayments department 
was backlogged as a result of the Covid 19 pandemic and that Mr L should receive his 
payment shortly.
16 November 2020  NS&I received Mr Ls forgotten security details form requesting a 
temporary password. This was processed and on 19 November 2020 NS&I sent him a new 
temporary password.
20 November 2020  Mr L phoned NS&I to find out why the online request form hed filled in 
for the £100,000 withdrawal around three weeks earlier still hadnt resulted in the money 
being paid into his account.
Mr L was on the phone for more than half an hour trying to find out information about his 
account and the withdrawal request. He said he wanted to raise a complaint about not 
having access to his account and the delayed £100,000 repayment. The call ended with an 
assurance from NS&I that a note on his account from two days ago showed it had sent him a 
new temporary password and once that arrived, Mr L could move money online.
1 December 2020 - Mr L received the temporary password and he successfully set up new 
security and logged in. 
8 December 2020  Mr L phoned NS&I to find out what had happened to the transfer 
request he had made on 29 October. When he was informed how long he should expect that 
transfer still to take, and he learned that a transfer for an amount below £50,000 would be in 
his account by close of business following working day, Mr L agreed to do that instead as he 
wanted the money as soon as possible.
The representative he spoke to confirmed that he would send an email to the back office to 
avoid any duplication and Mr  L asked to cancel the £100,000 withdrawal request he 
submitted and arranged for a new payment of £49,999 to be made to his nominated bank 
account and this was processed. 
27 January 2021  NS&I issued its final response letter to the complaint Mr K made in 
November 2020. In brief summary, it acknowledged that it had asked Mr L in error when it 
requested a witnessed signature from him. It explained that his password was automatically 
suspended after five failed log in attempts. It said that on 28 October when it received Mr Ls 
further repayment form for £100,000 which had been downloaded online, it should have 
completed security checks and made the payment if these were successful. But instead it 
incorrectly wrote to him for his signature.
NS&I concluded by saying that Mr L had access to his account from 1 December 2020 and if 
hed made a withdrawal the money would have been in his account no later than 3 
December 2020 so it would only consider loss of interest up to that date. It also said its 
security team had experienced delays completing their checks on transactions around this 
time due to the impact of Covid 19. NS&I said it had fallen short of its usual standard of service on more than one occasion. It 
offered sincere apologies for the inconvenience and annoyance caused and arranged for a 
payment of £75 to Mr L as a gesture of goodwill.  
Mr L wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. In brief summary, she thought that:
NS&I had taken longer than was reasonable to process both Mr Ls £100,000 
withdrawal requests;
NS&I wasnt responsible for the time it took for post to reach him;
considering the amount of cash at risk it wasnt unreasonable for NS&I to have taken 
other steps to verify his identity when its system wasnt able to automatically 
generate security questions;
there were several occasions when NS&I either failed to notify Mr L about what was 
happening with his withdrawal request or it missed opportunities to put things right.
NS&I told our investigator it would like to offer an additional £75 as a gesture of goodwill  
our investigator felt this was insufficient. Whilst she didnt feel we could fairly award 
compensation for the investment loss Mr L had calculated, she felt that a payment of £350 
was fair to reflect the distress and inconvenience NS&I had caused Mr L.
NS&I accepted the investigators assessment and recommendation. Mr L remained 
dissatisfied. He mainly said that he lost a significant amount of money directly as a result of 
being unable to invest his money as planned due to NS&Is admitted failures and delay 
following his withdrawal request made on 28 October 2020.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I have set out at some length already the background circumstances which demonstrates 
where things went wrong. 
I sympathise with Mr L  I can completely understand why whats happened has been 
upsetting and frustrating for him. I appreciate he feels strongly that NS&I should be held 
responsible for substantial losses he says arise from his lost investment opportunity as a 
result of its delays and poor service.
But what he says about this isnt enough on its own for me to be able to award the 
compensation he is seeking. Its not in dispute that NS&I didnt process Mr Ls withdrawal requests as quickly as it ought 
to have done and it has accepted our investigators assessment that it missed opportunities 
to put things right more quickly for Mr L. So I dont feel I need to say any more about that. 
I have concentrated on what I think its fair and reasonable to expect NS&I to do to put things 
right, which is Mr Ls main concern now. 
Briefly, I need to decide what I think is likely to have happened if NS&I hadnt made errors or 
delayed actioning Mr Ls withdrawal request made on 28 October 2020. In other words, if it 
had actioned that request within a reasonable timeframe.
I've taken into account that between 22 - 28 October 2020, Mr L used most of the first 
£100,000 withdrawal he had successfully been able to transfer to his bank account in order 
to buy shares. He was anxious to obtain further funds in order to continue a trading strategy 
that he believed (correctly in the event) would prove successful. The problems he 
encountered at NS&I meant he was denied access to his money and on 9 November 2020 
(when Mr L was still waiting for NS&I to process his withdrawal request) the market 
conditions he had anticipated were triggered and he had effectively lost the chance to take 
advantage of the investment opportunity he had identified. 
But I dont think it was just failings on the part of NS&I that prevented Mr L from investing 
before 9 November 2020.
It seems likely (by Mr Ls own admission) that he was at fault for blocking the account when 
he didnt use his new password, so I think this probably complicated things and added to the 
overall delay. 
Im also mindful that he had only recently put his money on deposit with NS&I. Mr L told us 
that he chose the NS&I Income Bond account because he expected to be able to withdraw 
his money whenever he wanted - as advertised by NS&I. And so he transferred all his 
savings to this account by early August 2020 by posting two cheques. But that suggests to 
me that, whilst he mightve had another investment strategy planned in future, Mr L wasnt at 
that stage looking to make quick decisions to exploit moving markets because I think he 
understood that there was likely to be some delay at least obtaining funds from the Bond 
where he had chosen to invest his money for the time being. And had he withdrawn all his 
money in one go when he made his first withdrawal and moved the money into a bank 
account for instance, he would have had funds immediately to hand and ready to invest 
when the time looked right to him somewhere around the end of October/early November 
2020.  
Also, the first withdrawal was done by paper, so his decision to use the online process was 
the first time he had tried this. Theres no good reason why Mr L shouldnt have reasonably 
expected to be able to do an online transfer - this was one of the account features. But 
I think it was potentially risky to attempt this for the first time when he wanted the money 
urgently, given that his only previous withdrawal was done on paper - and in the event, he 
locked the account by mistake. I think its likely that if he had used the paper process again, 
he could have got his funds sooner.From 1 December 2020 Mr L did have full access to his Bond. So he could have processed 
a withdrawal online and he was no longer prevented from being able to invest elsewhere had 
he wished to. 
Ive kept in mind that at least some of the delays that impacted on Mr L werent exclusively 
NS&Is fault, such as the turnaround time for his post and the fact that some parts of its 
online system werent capable of meeting the needs of customers outside the UK. This 
limited Mr Ls options when he caused problems with his account security  and realistically, 
I dont think Mr L could have relied on being able to obtain funds from the NS&I Bond 
account as quickly as he has suggested he hoped to. 
To sum up, for all these reasons, I dont feel I can fairly award redress for financial loss  
because I havent seen enough to say that NS&I is responsible for compensating Mr L for a 
financial loss I cannot reasonably identify or quantify. 
But I agree that compensation should be paid to properly reflect the frustration and 
disappointment of not being able to access his funds due, in large part, to some service 
failings on the part of NS&I when Mr L wanted his money quickly. In thinking about what 
would be fair redress overall, I've taken into account the admitted errors on the part of NS&I 
and the fact it missed opportunities to put things right. Im also mindful that this was a time of 
heightened stress and anxiety for Mr L as his investment plans were time sensitive and he 
could see his opportunity slipping away. I consider that my award should reflect the fact that 
the impact of NS&Is errors was particularly stressful for Mr L given the time constraints he 
faced. 
I dont think the £350 NS&I has offered to pay sufficiently reflects the time it took to resolve 
the issues it was responsible for and could have put right sooner  thereby mitigating what 
was an extremely frustrating and stressful experience for Mr L, bearing in mind this was a 
significant sum of money and the delays ran on for a number of weeks.  
Looked at overall, I think that £500 is fair and reasonable redress in these circumstances.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr L has asked for his complaint to be reviewed with a view to achieving a fair and realistic 
level of compensation. He has provided detailed comments explaining why he disagrees 
with what I have said in my provisional decision and feels that a lot of my comments are very 
unfair.
In brief summary, Mr L believes that had NS&I dealt with all his requests in a timely and 
efficient way within normal banking benchmarks he would have between £50,000 - £100,000 
more in his bank account today (ignoring any future reinvestment potential). In support of his 
view, he relies on the contact notes, spreadsheet analysis and a screenshot of his trading 
activity showing how he invested the first £100,000 and achieved a capital gain of 65%.
NS&I told me it agrees with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Id like to assure Mr L that I have taken carefully into account everything he has asked me to 
reconsider before coming to my final decision. Its part of my role to identify and focus on 
what I think is relevant and explain how I have reached my conclusions. Whilst I intend no 
discourtesy, this means I will not be addressing Mr Ls concerns on a point by point basis. 
But I have addressed below what seem to me to be the main points of concern he has 
raised.
The ombudsman approach is to decide what is fair and reasonable overall. I must look at all 
the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance of probabilities. 
And I must be impartial, which means being even-handed in giving due consideration and 
weight to what both parties say.
For the reasons set out more fully in my provisional decision, I still dont think the £350 NS&I 
originally offered to pay sufficiently reflects the delays it was responsible for and could have 
put right sooner and that £500 is fair and reasonable redress in these circumstances.
I havent identified any fair and reasonable grounds for awarding further redress. In order to 
access funds in the income bond account Mr L had to follow a withdrawal process. 
I appreciate that he expected this process to be a lot quicker than in the event it proved in 
his case when he attempted the second withdrawal. And I acknowledge Mr Ls comment that 
when he first read about the bond, it was categorised as an easy access account. But in my 
view, having his investment pot in an income bond account with NS&I always meant the 
money wasnt available to spend immediately, in the way it would have been had Mr L held 
the funds, for instance, in a standard high street bank current account. Given that Mr L 
expected to be trading in a fast moving and volatile investment marketplace, I think its 
reasonable for me to say that I would have expected him to have put his funds in a place 
where he could use them straightaway to pay for a trade. 
So I dont feel I have seen enough to be able to fairly say that NS&I should cover Mr L for 
the investment return that he says he would have achieved but for the delays in him 
accessing his funds. In order to award compensation in this regard, I would need to find that 
NS&Is acts and/or omissions when dealing with Mr Ls requests for his funds were clearly 
linked to him missing out on making the investment return that he has identified. Taking into 
account the overall circumstances applicable when he requested the fund withdrawal from 
28 October 2020 that I have detailed above, on balance my view is that it has not been 
shown that NS&I are liable for the losses that Mr L claims. 
Mr L hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. 
Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision. I have addressed in my provisional decision all the points which have a 
bearing on the outcome. 
I appreciate that Mr L takes a different view to me, as of course he is entitled to do. I am 
aware that he is considering legal action and as long as he doesnt accept my final decision 
he can still take this matter to court. Putting things right
NS&I should pay £500 in total to Mr L. 
As I understand NS&I has already paid some compensation direct, this means it will be 
required to make a payment for the outstanding balance still owing if Mr L decides to accept 
my decision. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct National Savings and Investments to take the steps I've 
set out above to put things right for Mr L. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman