Complaint
Ms W has complained that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) Agria have unfairly 
changed the benefit levels of her pet insurance policies.
Background
Ms W took pet insurance with Agria for her dogs with a maximum benefit level of £7,500. 
In 2015 Agria made changes to the cover they offered  increasing the maximum benefit 
level on Ms Ws policies to £12,500. Ms W says she wasnt told about this. 
Ms W says the policies have now become unaffordable for her and shes unhappy that it 
wasnt possible for her to reduce the benefit levels on her policies to lower the premiums. 
Agria agreed that Ms W could reduce the benefit levels to lower the premiums but said this 
could only be done at renewal - in July. Ms W didnt think this was fair. 
Since sending out our assessment Ms W has cancelled the policies. She says that she is 
now unable to reinsure two of her dogs with Agria as they are older than eight and Agria 
wont insure dogs over eight under new policies. And if she reinsures her two younger dogs 
their previous conditions wont be covered. Ms W thinks Agria have forced her into this 
situation. 
Ms W has problems with her sight  finding it difficult to read small print - and she is unhappy 
Agria have not addressed this and been proactive in sending her policy information in large 
font. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business what their 
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how they 
should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Ms Ws policies were too 
high, she should have been charged less for the policies or that she should be offered 
policies for less in the future. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest Agria have treated her differently to how it would 
have treated any other policyholder in the same position. So I cant tell Agria to charge her 
lower premiums going forwards.
I understand Ms W will be disappointed with this, as this was the outcome she had hoped 
for. I recognise that she is now in a difficult position having cancelled the cover for her dogs.
DRN-1892289But I can see Agria explained to Ms W that she would lose continuous cover for her dogs if 
she cancelled the policies and its something the investigator reiterated to her in her 
assessment sent in May of this year. Its also up to Agria to decide the risk they are willing to 
take on and its not uncommon for insurers to not offer insurance for older animals under 
new policies. So I also dont think Agria have done anything wrong by not offering to reinsure 
her older dogs. 
Ms Ws main complaint seems to be about the changes Agria made to her policies benefit 
levels in 2015. Its important to note that insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and 
reassess the risk they are taking on. As well as making sure the policies they are offering are 
competitive in the market. 
Agria told us that after a review in 2014 they made a decision to increase the maximum 
benefit level for veterinary fees to ensure all their customers were getting competitive cover 
levels and to ensure customers werent reaching their maximum cover levels for pets with 
long term conditions. 
Under the terms of Ms Ws policies Agria were allowed to change the benefit level of her 
policies. So I dont think they did anything wrong in 2015 when they increased the maximum 
benefit level. But they did need to let Ms W for these changes in a clear, fair way. 
Ms W was sent renewal letters and policy schedules for her dogs policies in June 2015 
which set out the maximum benefit levels had increased. 
I know that Ms W has problems with her sight and finds it difficult to see small text and I 
dont think Agria sent her the 2015 renewal documents in large print and it doesnt look like 
Ms W requested this at the time. So I accept she might not have been aware of the changes 
made in 2015. 
From the notes Agria have provided me with I can see that in 2017 Ms W requested her 
policy documents including policy schedules in large print. So I think that Ms W would have 
been aware at least since 2017 that her benefit levels had increased. And on balance, I think 
Ms W would have brought a complaint about the changes made sooner than she did if it was 
something she wasnt aware of and was unhappy about. 
But even if Ms W had known about the changes made in 2015 I still think she would have 
continued with the policies. I say this because she had taken out Agrias premium life 
policies and were clearly interested in having the higher level of cover. The changes Agria 
made increased the level of cover on Ms W policies they didnt limit it. Ms W would have lost 
her dogs continuous cover if she had chosen to cancel it. So on balance I dont think she 
would have done anything differently at the time.
Ms W is unhappy it wasnt possible for her to reduce the benefit levels of her policies to 
reduce the amount she was paying for her premiums. But Agria told Ms W that she could 
decrease her level of cover. However they also told her that to keep continuous cover for her 
dogs this would only be possible at the expiry/renewal of her policies  in July. I think thats 
fair  as Ms Ws policies were annual contracts of insurance.
In the investigators assessment she referred to the fact that Agria made it possible for 
consumers to switch their policies to a lower level of cover in 2018. Ms W thinks she should 
have been directly informed when this change was made. But I disagree. This was a 
business decision, not a change in the terms and conditions of her policies. So they didnt 
have to let her know. From the notes provided by Agria I cant see that Ms W raised her concerns about the 
change in benefit level (although I can see she raised concerns about the change in excess 
payments in 2017) or asked for the benefit level to be reduced until she made her complaint 
in 2020. I can see she did mention she was looking around for other, cheaper, cover 
elsewhere when she spoke to Agria in 2018. But she didnt contact them again until 2020 at 
which point she was told she could reduce the level of cover when the policies were up for 
renewal. I dont think Agria would have had a real reason to let Ms W know she could reduce 
her benefit level before she complained in 2020. 
I do think its unacceptable that Ms W has had to request each document from Agria in large 
font despite telling them on a number of occasions she had difficulties with her sight. But Im 
pleased to see Agria recognise this - and that they are working to provide better customer 
service and ensure they have systems in place so this wont happen for consumers going 
forward. 
I know it will be disappointing for Ms W and appreciate shes in a difficult position as she has 
now cancelled her dogs policies and may find it difficult to find alternative cover. But having 
looked at everything, and for the reasons above I dont think Agria need to do anything 
further to put things right. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31July 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman