DRN-1591247
The complaint
Ms H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) closed her accounts without 
calling her to let her know. She accepts notice was given but says she cant understand 
written communication. 
What happened
In July 2019, Ms H raised a fraud claim with Nationwide. Nationwide declined Ms Hs claim 
as she had a prior connection to the companies involved. Because of this Ms H was advised 
to try and resolve the issue with the companies directly. Ms H was unhappy with this, but 
Nationwide explained they would ask any customer to deal with a company directly if they 
were to raise a similar dispute. 
At this time, Nationwide also explained to Ms H that while they were aware of her mental 
illness and that it could cause her a lot of distress, they had offered what they felt was the 
correct additional support. But even so, they considered Ms H was still behaving 
unreasonably during her calls with staff members. Because of this, Nationwide said they 
would need to review their relationship with Ms H. 
In August 2019, Nationwide made a decision to close two of Ms Hs accounts because of the 
relationship breakdown caused by Ms H using aggressive and abusive behaviour towards 
staff members. 
They wrote to Ms H letting her know this was going to happen and gave her 62 days notice. 
They had also let Ms H know this on the phone a few days before the letter was sent and 
explained the accounts would be closed in October. 
Once the accounts had been closed, any remaining balances were sent to Ms H by cheque. 
Ms H is unhappy with the fact her accounts were closed, as due to her mental health 
disability she finds it hard to read and communicate by letter. She feels Nationwide didnt do 
enough to help her. She said that as a result of the account closures, she lost her job, was 
evicted from her home and wasnt able to afford food and electricity for her and her child.  
Our investigator looked into Ms Hs complaint and was of the opinion that Nationwide hadnt 
done anything wrong. He listened to a call Ms H had with Nationwide, and having checked 
the terms of Ms Hs account, confirmed they were allowed to close Ms Hs accounts, as they 
felt there had been a breakdown in relationship due to how she had communicated with 
them.
Ms H didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In relation to account closures, I looked at the terms and conditions for both of the accounts 
that were closed. They say: 
We may close your account immediately and without notice in exceptional circumstances. 
These might include:

d) you have been threatening or abusive towards our staff; 
and 
We may close your account immediately if:

c) we reasonably consider that your conduct towards our staff constitutes abuse or 
harassment or a public order offence.
I have also listened to a call that Ms H had with Nationwide in July 2019 and while I do 
understand Ms H has explained her condition can mean she becomes angry and unable to 
control what she says, the comments made towards the end of the call were considered 
unacceptable by Nationwide. The terms of Ms Hs accounts say that Nationwide are entitled 
to close a customers account if they feel the relationship with someone has broken down, 
which is what theyve done. 
When considering Nationwides actions, even though I havent seen any medical evidence of 
Ms Hs disability, I do accept that she has one, and I accept and believe this impacts her 
behaviour during phone calls. I also know that Nationwide have been aware of Ms Hs 
disability for some time. So what I need to decide is whether or not they have acted fairly 
towards her, bearing in mind what they knew about her circumstances. 
Firstly, I need to consider Nationwides duty to make reasonable adjustments. And secondly, 
there are broader requirements of fairness to think about. 
I can see from the information I have that there is a long history of complaints and difficult 
phone calls from Ms H, which Nationwide have tolerated in the past. I can see from the 
internal email exchanges that they have thought carefully about the impact of their decision 
on Ms H and whether there were any other acceptable alternatives.
But its clear Ms H only wanted to communicate over the phone. And its clear that doing so 
caused her considerable distress, leading her to behave in a way thats unacceptable and 
not appropriate for Nationwide staff to deal with. 
So the terms and conditions of Ms Hs account do allow closure on notice where theres 
abusive behaviour. But where that behaviour is the result of a disability, the reasonable 
adjustment duty and general fairness would place the bar of whats unacceptable higher 
than in a case where theres no disability. But there still needs to be a bar. And its clear that 
the relationship here has broken down, meaning its no longer possible for Nationwide and 
Ms H to communicate in a constructive way about her accounts. And given she doesnt want 
to communicate in any other way, its hard to see how the relationship could be repaired. 
Because of this, I feel it was a fair decision for Nationwide to close Ms Hs accounts with 
enough notice, allowing her to make alternative arrangements in the meantime. I understand Ms H had asked that she be called before any written correspondence was 
sent to her, and I can see Nationwide called her before the letter was sent. During this call, 
the advisor explained what was going to happen, so Im satisfied Ms H was given the 
information over the phone before receiving it in writing. 
I have also looked into the fraud claim that Ms H made and can see that Nationwide sent her 
a letter in December 2019 explaining that she would need to check whether the transactions 
were correct, and if they werent, she would need to sign the enclosed form and return it to 
Nationwide. As the form wasnt signed and returned by Ms H, the fraud review didnt take 
place. I have also listened to a call where Ms H discusses the fraudulent transactions with 
Nationwide, so Im satisfied they tried to talk through these with Ms H before sending her a 
letter. 
Unfortunately due to the amount of time that has now passed, Nationwide wouldnt be able 
to re-open the fraud dispute. This is because the chargeback deadline has expired. 
Nationwide were prepared to investigate the matter. They sent out properly addressed 
documentation which needed to be returned  and they couldnt progress the chargeback 
until they received it. So I cant say its Nationwides fault that the time limit has now expired, 
and theres nothing more we can fairly ask it to do.
From the information I have, it appears as though Ms H has now been able to open a new 
bank account with an alternative provider, which is pleasing to know. I hope that this has 
resolved some of the distress the matter had been causing her. 
Overall, while I appreciate that Ms H has explained her medical condition causes her to 
behave in a certain way over the telephone, Im unable to ask that Nationwide pay any 
compensation to her, as I believe theyve acted correctly in line with the terms and conditions 
of Ms Hs accounts, and that theyve treated her fairly in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman