DRN-2349612
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) recorded details of a 
supplier invoice under a claim Ms L later withdrew under her home insurance policy. Ms L 
says she didnt intend to claim when she asked about accidental damage to a carpet - and 
RSA didnt make it clear a claim had been registered.
What happened
Ms L called her insurer, RSA to say that shed accidentally damaged her hallways carpet 
with nail varnish. RSA completed a desktop valuation which came to £294. As Ms Ls excess 
was £250, she questioned whether the claim was worth it, as it would have an impact on her 
No Claims Bonus (NCB). Ms L thought her carpet was worth a lot more than the valuation. 
RSA said it could arrange for its supplier to visit Ms L, which Ms L agreed to. After 
discussion with the supplier, Ms L made a private arrangement for her carpet to be cleaned 
instead. So she didnt claim for the damage repairs under her policy. 
Ms L said she discovered RSA had recorded a claim against her when she looked to obtain 
quotes at renewal time. Ms L complained to RSA. She said it didnt make it clear that she 
was registering a claim when she called. Ms L wanted RSA to remove the claim. 
RSA said it believed it was clear that it recorded Ms Ls claim as such  and it provided her 
with a claim reference number in the initial call. As it paid a suppliers invoice, it said it had 
correctly recorded these details on a central database that insurers use to check the claims 
history for consumers. 
Ms L remained unhappy and so she asked us to look at her complaint. She said she was 
caused embarrassment when she applied for insurance with other insurers and it looked like 
she had misrepresented her NCB. 
Our investigator listened to a recording of the key call from Ms L to RSA and thought it was 
reasonable for RSA to assume Ms L understood it had registered a claim. 
Ms L didnt agree. In summary she says RSA hid behind the small print of her policy and 
didnt make it clear to her that it was registering a claim. So she wants an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms L contacted RSA, she called a number it lists as the designated claims number in 
the terms and conditions of the policy. 
The agent explained that they could start the claims process for Ms L and arrange for is 
supplier to provide a quote. Ms L asked about the excess and how to pay it. The agent 
explained that a supplier would be in touch in the next couple of days and gave Ms L a 
claims reference number. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think RSA misled Ms L. I think it was clear enough 
that it had registered a claim. When Ms L decided not to proceed with her claim, RSA 
correctly recorded the claim as withdrawn but showing the suppliers costs, as it settled their 
invoice. We cannot ask an insurer to remove a record its correctly made about claim related 
costs on a central underwriting database. 
I understand Ms L is very upset about RSAs decision. But overall I dont think it has acted 
unreasonably. This means Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman