DRN-4409980
The complaint
Miss K complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) handled 
a claim under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss K had a motor insurance policy with Advantage covering her car. 
On 11 January her car was damaged by a third-party driver in a hit and run collision. She 
contacted Advantage and made a claim.
Advantage wasnt able to find a repairer who could offer Miss K a courtesy car. Her car was 
taken to a repairer on 24 January and a courtesy car provided later.
Miss K had to rely on family to take her family to nursery and wasnt able to travel to her 
office. Advantage later pointed out that Miss K wasnt insured for journeys to work under the 
type of use shed selected.
Miss K complained to Advantage. Advantage said there was a nationwide shortage of 
courtesy cars. It paid Miss K £55 for the delay providing the courtesy car. 
Miss K remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She complains about 
Advantages poor communication with her as well as the delay getting her a courtesy car. 
She made a second complaint about CCTV footage of the collision. She was told by the 
camera operator that Advantage would have to request it. Advantage didnt obtain the 
footage. Advantage also agreed to pay an additional £50 compensation for its poor service 
in not obtaining the footage.
She asks for compensation for her time spent dealing with the claim and her travel 
expenses. She also says she has been greatly distressed by Advantages inaction.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ks complaint and upheld it. He thought Advantages 
communication with Miss K hadnt been very good and it should have provided her with a 
courtesy car sooner. He thought it should pay her an additional £137.78 for her loss of use of 
her car and other travel expenses, and £100 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. 
Miss K didnt agree with the view. She says that the CCTV footage would confirm the identity 
of the third party and this might mean she didnt have to pay her excess toward her claim. 
Because she didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties to consider things further:
Im issuing this as a provisional decision as Ive gone further than our investigator and Im 
proposing to require Advantage to take further action to investigate the claim further by 
accessing the CCTV records. I also intend to require it to pay additional compensation to 
Miss K.
CCTV footage
I can see in Miss Ks early evidence that she provided details of the CCTV operator (which 
was the local authority) to Advantage. She provided it with a weblink it could use to access 
the footage and explicitly said it would only be available for 28 days. I can see accessing this 
footage is only available to insurance companies or legal representatives and the charge 
would be £100. Miss K had also requested CCTV footage from another organisation in the 
location, but shed been told none was available.
Advantage didnt use the link shed sent it as it requests footage in a different way via its 
system. Advantage also contacted the other organisation Ive mentioned who didnt have 
any footage. I cant see that Advantage actually asked for the footage from the local 
authority.
I dont think this is good service. Miss K has paid her excess of £500 towards the damage to 
her car, and shes been told by Advantage that if the third party is identified, and presumably 
it recovers its costs, then she wouldnt have to pay it. But the only way to obtain the possible 
footage is if Advantage request it. And I cant see that it has. 
I know Miss K says that she thinks this footage will identify the car, but theres no guarantee 
the footage would identify the other car, such as if it wasnt active or pointing in the correct 
direction. 
So, I cant fairly hold Advantage responsible for Miss Ks excess. But I also dont think its 
done enough to investigate the claim given that this footage was the only chance Miss K had 
left to get her excess back. 
Its also possible it didnt investigate further because it would have to pay the charge for the 
footage.
I think the fair solution is that Advantage attempt to obtain the footage from the local 
authority and re-assess the claim from the information it gets. It also needs to write to Miss K 
and tell her what its found out. 
Given that Miss K was told the footage would only be available for 28 days, Im not hopeful 
that this will have a positive outcome, but I think its fair to ask Advantage to try and get it.
Service
In her evidence, Miss K has provided details about what went on in her claim. I can see she 
was told Advantage would be using one particular repairer, who then didnt provide the 
service. She chased it up many times to no reply, and in the end drove to the repairer who 
told her it hadnt got her details. 
Another repairer was then used and there was a delay providing a courtesy car. Advantage 
has said its encountering problems with the number of repairers available and its workload 
across the UK. But thats not Miss Ks fault. Shes paid for a service and I think Advantage 
needs to reasonably provide it on a timely basis.
I can see Miss K was in regular contact with Advantage at this time and had started making 
a complaint. It seems to me that Advantages communication with her was disjointed and of 
poor quality. 
It also didnt follow its own published complaints procedures when it couldnt resolve the 
matter quickly enough.Miss K has told this service about her frustration with Advantages procedures. She has 
been promised calls back multiple times but didnt receive any. Then when she complained, 
she was told how the complaint would be dealt with inside a certain period of days, and then 
escalated. But the complaint wasnt handled in that way.
I dont think this is good service from Advantage and I can understand Miss Ks distress and 
the inconvenience shes had emailing it repeatedly to a very limited response over a period 
of two months. So I think Advantage need to pay Miss K a total of £300 compensation for 
this. I can see in the file that it has already paid two amounts of £30 and £50 for this, so they 
can be deducted.
Loss of use
I can see Miss K has been paid £55 for loss of use of her car. Our investigator awarded a 
further £137.78 for her evidenced travel expenses and because the period she was without a 
car was longer.
Miss K says that she was only provided with a courtesy car on 13 February, but Advantage 
has provided evidence it was given to her on 7 February. In the absence of any evidence to 
the contrary, Im going to accept 7 February as being the most likely correct date. This 
services approach is to award loss of use at £10 per day, So Advantage should pay Miss K 
an additional £137.78 as previously calculated, including some travel costs Miss K incurred.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss K didnt respond to my provisional decision. Advantage responded to say it doubted it 
could access the CCTV footage from the local authority. It also questioned Miss Ks travel 
expenses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties didnt provide further information, my final decision and reasoning remain the 
same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited should:
Approach the local authority to request any CCTV footage that exists of the collision, 
review the footage and then write to Miss K to inform her of the outcome this has on 
her claim.
Pay an additional amount of £137.78 for her loss of use, in addition to the £55 it has 
already paid.
Pay Miss K a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her. Its my understanding that £50 and £30 has already been paid, so this 
can be deducted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman