DRN-2409922
The complaint
Mr G has complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
Mr G took out a store card in May 1996  PPI was applied to his account at the same time.
The policy cost no more than £1 per £100 of Mr Gs outstanding monthly statement balance. 
And if he was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of 
that balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Mr G returned to 
work.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Both parties agree that AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mr G. That means it didnt have 
to check the policy was suitable for him. But AXA did have to give Mr G enough information 
about the policy so he could decide whether to take it or not.
Mr Gs policy was sold in a store  he says he was given a leaflet to fill in. AXA has not been 
able to provide a copy of it, but thats not surprising due to the timescales involved. As I cant 
know precisely what information Mr G was provided with, I have to think about whether Mr G 
would have been made aware of the key terms that might have mattered to him most. And, if 
not, whether any missing information would have changed his decision to take the policy. 
Over the years, weve seen a number of AXA store card agreements and usually, in my 
experience, AXA would not have made the terms around pre-existing medical conditions 
clear enough. The policy terms say that any condition that Mr G knew about during the 12 
months immediately before the policy start date would not be covered. And I think this would 
have been important to Mr G because he says he had a chronic condition at the time.
Mr G told AXA that he had a chronic condition in his initial complaint to them. AXA 
considered this but said they had not asked him when he was diagnosed, so it was not clear 
whether the condition was pre-existing or not. Specifically, AXA said the condition is a 
serious condition that would likely have impacted the suitability of the policy even if they 
didnt end up taking time off of work due to it, we need to establish if it was pre-existing. 
Mr G told us that he was 30 years old when he was diagnosed with his condition. This would 
have been around one year before the policy was sold to him. As the condition was pre-
existing and considering AXAs earlier comments, our adjudicator upheld the case. 
AXA responded and in summary, it said that condition is usually manageable and would not 
have affected Mr Gs lifestyle if it was being treated with medication. They did not think the 
condition would have had a prolonged effect on Mr Gs ability to work, so they didnt think 
this alone made the policy wrong for Mr G. They also said they would require evidence of the 
condition being ongoing. And finally, they thought the policy still could have been useful to 
Mr G should he have been off work for any other medical condition he might have 
developed. 
Ive thought about everything AXA has said, but Im not convinced by the new arguments 
theyve presented. I say this because Mr G has been consistent about having a chronic 
condition and AXA seems to accept this. Mr G has also confirmed that it was a pre-existing 
condition. So, I dont think its necessary to ask Mr G to provide evidence of the condition or 
of how it impacted on him.
While I accept that a condition such as the one Mr G had can be controlled, Mr G had only 
been diagnosed with it fairly recently before the sale. So, I think its likely he would have 
been concerned about the impact it might have on him. Especially because the condition is 
one that has the potential to result in a range of other serious medical conditions. So, if Mr G 
had been made aware the policy would not have covered him for his chronic medical 
condition  I think its likely that information would have put him off taking the policy at the 
time it was sold. 
I appreciate that Mr G could have claimed for any other condition he developed  if it was 
not caused by his pre-existing condition. But Im not persuaded that Mr G would have 
thought the policy was good value for money if it had been pointed out clearly to him that he 
would not be able to make a successful claim for any time off work that resulted from his pre-
existing medical condition. And I dont think hed have agreed to the PPI if this had been 
made clear.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr G in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mr G would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr G owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr G would have owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr G would have owed each month without PPI  Mr G 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr G would 
have owed AXA something on his store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mr G what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman