DRN-3303589
The complaint
Mrs E and Mrs E complains that Santander UK Plc didnt pay the correct rate of cashback on 
one of their direct debits.
What happened
Mrs E and Mr E have an account with Santander which pays cashback on certain utility 
direct debits. The advertised rates of cashback are 3% for water rates, 2% on gas and 
electricity and 1% on council tax. They say they received cashback but the rate for their gas 
and electricity was only 1% rather than 2% as it should have been. 
Santander issued a final response letter in December 2020 saying that the gas and 
electricity supplier used the same originator identifier number (OIN) to take payments for its 
communications products as well as it gas and electricity. It said that this had resulted in the 
payment of 1% cashback rather than 2%. It said this issue needed to be taken up with the 
utility provider and it couldnt change the category. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that the responsibility for the correct 
OIN was with the utility company and that Santander could only provide cashback based on 
the correct OIN. He said that since the issue had been raised, Santander had rectified the 
situation and so the correct 2% cashback was being paid. He noted the terms and conditions 
of the account explained that no back-dated payments would be made following a re-
categorisation.
Mr E didnt accept our investigators view. He said that Santander was the direct debit taker 
and it wasnt for the utility company to ensure Santander were using the right code. He also 
said he understood that Santander allocated the OIN to the companies and so it was 
responsible for ensuring the correct information was used for the cashback calculation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander advertise their 123 account as providing cashback on certain direct debits. The 
literature about the account states that 2% cashback is provided on gas and electricity. 
Santanders key facts document explains that cashback is earned for payments to 
companies using the OIN listing. The supplier Mrs E and Mr E use for their gas and 
electricity also provides communications services. It appears that this has been the source of 
the issue. 
I note that the bank statements clearly show the direct debit payments being for gas and 
electricity, but Santander has explained its process for applying cashback is based on the 
OIN provided. In this case the OIN provided for the payments resulted in them being 
allocated a 1% cashback rate as the service provider also provides communications 
services. I understand that this was frustrating for Mrs E and Mr E as they reasonably 
thought the payments they were making would receive a 2% cashback rate. However, I 
cannot say that Santander was wrong to follow its usual process of applying the cashback 
based on the suppliers OIN. 
Given the incorrect cashback amount was being applied, I would expect Santander to take 
reasonable action to address this once it was informed. 
The key facts document sets out that Santander has:
made every effort to make sure the classification and categorisation is accurate. Your 
cashback payments will be based on the categorisation that weve made ..
[the] Originator Identification Number (OIN - also known as Service User Number (SUN)) is a 
unique six digit number given to each organisation or service user who is authorised to use 
the Direct Debit Scheme. 
If you think any of your Direct Debit payments should be eligible, but arent on the list or you 
have a query related to an organisation or payment then please call us .. If we confirm the 
category should be updated, well do this and payments will be adjusted from that point 
onwards. We wont be able to back-date the payments.
I understand that when Mr E raised his query the cashback rate was amended and so he is 
now receiving the cashback he should. This puts Mrs E and Mr E in the position going 
forward that they would have been had there not been a problem with the OIN. The action 
taken is also in line with the terms regarding the payments going forward but not backdating. 
Therefore, I do not find I can say that Santander has acted outside of its terms.
Overall, I have sympathy with the issue Mr E has raised. Santanders advertising clearly 
states a rate of 2% for gas and electricity direct debits but he didnt receive this at the outset. 
While I agree it shouldnt be an issue for Mrs E and Mr E that their supplier also provides 
other services, given how the cashback process works, I find it reasonable that the OIN was 
relied on. Unfortunately, this gave an incorrect cashback amount for a period but when 
Santander were alerted to this it was amended. Therefore, in this case, I do not find I can 
say that Mrs E and Mr E have been treated unfairly or that Santander has acted outside of 
its terms and conditions. While I think Santander should learn from this complaint to ensure 
the risk of customers getting the wrong cashback amounts are minimised, in this case I do 
not find that I have enough to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman