DRN-3143038
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund several transactions she didnt 
recognise that were made using her credit card.
What happened
Mrs A noticed that she couldnt find her credit card and notified Lloyds about this, telling 
them shed lost it and only needed the card replacing. She said she didnt need a new 
Personal Identification Number (PIN). Lloyds cancelled her card and issued a new one. 
The following month Mrs A noticed a large number of cash withdrawals had been made 
using her old card and told Lloyds that she wasnt responsible for making them and asked 
for a refund. Mrs A also notified the police about her loss.
Mrs A confirmed to Lloyds that she hadnt given anyone else the card or revealed the PIN to 
anyone else. She also confirmed she hadnt written the PIN down. Lloyds looked into the 
transactions and determined they were all Chip and PIN transactions using various 
Automated Teller Machines (ATMs). This meant Mrs As genuine card was used to withdraw 
the money using the correct PIN.
The withdrawals ended three days before Mrs A first reported her card lost and Lloyds said 
they issued their monthly statement the day before Mrs A notified them of the lost card. The 
statement contained all the disputed transactions, but Mrs A didnt notify Lloyds until the end 
of the following month when shes said she noticed them on the next statement.
Lloyds were unable to find out how someone had obtained both the card and PIN and they 
believed Mrs A was responsible for the withdrawals and declined to make any refund. Mrs A 
asked for CCTV footage to determine who made the withdrawals, but Lloyds didnt obtain 
any, believing Mrs A responsible for the transactions.
Mrs A set up direct debits to repay the money to avoid damaging her credit rating but was 
still unhappy with Lloyds and made a complaint to them. Lloyds investigated the situation but 
didnt change their position.
Mrs A then brought her complaint to our service for an independent review. It was looked 
into by one of our investigators who thought it was likely Mrs A or someone she authorised 
used the card and it was reasonable for Lloyds to hold her liable for the disputed 
transactions.
Mrs A remained unhappy with the outcome and wanted CCTV to be requested in order to 
identify the user of her card. She asked for a further review of her complaint. Its now been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Lloyds can hold Mrs A liable for the 
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made them 
or authorised them.
 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
Lloyds have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN were used to make the 
transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions were 
authenticated. 
Consent refers to the way in which Lloyds and Mrs A agreed to use the card for transactions. 
For example, when using the card and PIN together, Lloyds agree to accept that this is a 
legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another approved user and make 
the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used the genuine card and the 
correct PIN, so Im satisfied that consent was given and the disputed transactions were 
authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for Lloyds to hold Mrs 
A responsible, for example if the card was used without her permission.
Mrs A has said she didnt know when she lost her card and reported it to Lloyds at the first 
opportunity which was three days after the last disputed transaction. The call handler 
cancelled the card and told Mrs A that a new one would be issued. Mrs A wanted to check 
the address, but she couldnt be fully identified, and the call handler wouldnt discuss this 
with her. He said the new card would be sent to the registered address. Mrs A didnt want a 
new PIN to be issued. So, at this point it appears that Mrs A wasnt aware that her card was 
being used because if she was, I would have expected her to tell Lloyds about this during 
the call.  
The disputed transactions were all cash withdrawals and started about two weeks before 
Mrs A noticed her card had gone. Lloyds have explained they issued Mrs As monthly 
statement the day before she reported the card lost. That statement had all the disputed 
transactions listed. Mrs A has explained that she didnt notice the disputed transactions until 
the following month because shed already cleared her balance from the previous month and 
hadnt spent anything using the card.
Mrs A said she didnt have any online access to her account. That means she relied on the 
monthly statements to inform her about her account. I appreciate Mrs A said she never 
considered that her card was being used at the time to withdraw cash, but together with the 
recent loss of her card, Im surprised that Mrs A didnt check her account much earlier. 
Thats because Mrs As statement would probably have arrived shortly after she notified 
Lloyds that it had been lost and contained all the disputed transactions. 
The card was used to withdraw cash and on some days the full daily limit wasnt reached. 
There were also days when no withdrawals took place or purchases made. This isnt a 
typical use of a stolen card because a thief would be unlikely to know when it would be 
reported lost or stolen  so the usual way these cards are used is to maximise its use until 
either the credit limit is reached or the card is blocked. That didnt happen here and there 
was a substantial amount of credit left on the card that wasnt used. 
Mrs A has confirmed the PIN number wasnt written down or known to anyone else. Mrs A 
has said she normally kept the card in her house and doesnt know how she lost it or how 
someone got access to it. Because the PIN was correctly used to make the ATM withdrawals I think its unlikely that a thief could correctly guess the PIN, even if they 
somehow obtained the card. 
I know Mrs A wanted the CCTV to be obtained, but this wasnt done by Lloyds because they 
believed Mrs A was responsible and theres no obligation on banks to provide this, and often 
the cash machines are operated by other businesses. Even if CCTV was obtained it doesnt 
mean that Mrs A couldnt be held liable for providing the card and PIN for someone else to 
use, so the presence of another person using the ATM wouldnt necessarily be evidence that 
Mrs A wasnt responsible. 
Mrs As actions when she lost the card would seem to indicate that she wasnt aware it was 
being used. But, theres no plausible explanation for how someone could have obtained the 
PIN and thats because it wasnt written down and no one else knew it or had access to it. 
The pattern of use of the card doesnt follow the use by an unknown third party because I 
would expect to see the account emptied  which didnt happen here.
While Im sure Mrs A will disagree with me, the evidence that Ive considered leads me to the 
conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not that Mrs A 
authorised or allowed her card details to be used to make the payments. So, taking 
everything into account, I think it is fair and reasonable for Lloyds to hold Mrs A responsible 
for these transactions. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman