DRN-4214698
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) sent a payment to the wrong 
person and hasnt refunded it.
What happened
Miss C holds an account with Barclays. In September 2022, she used the Barclays app to 
make an international transfer to a relative. But her relative didnt receive the money. Miss C 
contacted Barclays and discovered that the money had been sent to the wrong account. She 
asked Barclays to recall the funds.
Barclays contacted the beneficiary bank, but they didnt have authorisation from the 
beneficiary to return the funds. So, Miss C didnt get her money back. Barclays said it 
couldnt do any more, but Miss C wasnt happy about this and raised a complaint. 
Barclays said its the responsibility of the customer to check the details when making 
payments through the app. Barclays said it isnt responsible if the details are entered 
incorrectly. It said it had tried to help Miss C by contacting the beneficiary bank, but there 
wasnt anything else it could do. It didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss C wasnt happy with Barclays response and brought the complaint to this service. She 
said she had entered the payment details correctly. But she said there was a technical error 
with Barclays app which meant the money was sent to a different account. Our Investigator 
didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. But Miss C didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking first at the attempt to recover the funds, I find that Barclays contacted the 
beneficiary bank and asked for the funds to be returned on the same day this was requested 
by Miss C. Ive seen the message which the beneficiary bank sent back. It said they couldnt 
obtain authorisation to return the funds. The beneficiarys consent is needed before funds 
can be returned, even if they received the money by mistake. As consent wasnt given here, 
the funds couldnt be removed from the beneficiarys account. 
Barclays options in this situation are quite limited, but Id expect it to take reasonable steps 
to recover the funds. I think it fulfilled this requirement by contacting the beneficiary bank 
promptly. But, as the beneficiary didnt agree to return the funds, I dont think there was any 
more that Barclays could do at that stage.
So, Ive looked at whether Barclays should have done anything differently earlier on, to 
prevent the funds reaching the wrong beneficiary. I dont think it should  Ill explain why. 
Miss C entered the payment details herself through the app, so the onus was on her to 
ensure the details were correct. Miss C says she entered the account number correctly but 
there was a technical issue with Barclays app. I havent seen anything to suggest there was 
a problem with the app at the time. 
Ive seen a screenshot from Miss Cs mobile which shows an error message, saying that 
Barclays couldnt find bank details for the account number Miss C had entered.  I understand 
that Miss Cs relative had recently changed her account details. Im satisfied that, in this 
screenshot, Miss C had entered the account number correctly. But I dont think the fact that 
Barclays didnt recognise it necessarily means there was a technical problem with the app.
Miss C says that, afterwards, the app accepted the transaction and the money was sent. 
She has provided another screenshot which shows the name of the proposed recipient, how 
much money they will get, the exchange rate and which account the money will be paid 
from. This screenshot doesnt show the account number which the money will be sent to. So, 
I cant conclude that the correct account number had been entered on this attempt.
The screen includes the name of the payee. I understand that the name shown is the name 
of the person who Miss C wanted to pay. But, as this was an international payment, 
Confirmation of Payee didnt apply. So, Barclays didnt have to check that the account name 
matched the account number which had been entered. 
The person who received the funds is someone Miss C has sent money to in the past. So, I 
think its likely that their account details were saved on her account as a payee and were 
selected for this transaction by mistake. I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclays 
was responsible for this mistake. Miss C says she has tried to get the money back from this 
person, but they havent returned it. 
I sympathise with Miss C and Im sorry to disappoint her. But I havent seen anything which 
suggests Barclays made a mistake here and I dont think theres any more it can do to help 
her. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman