DRN-2848515
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the full cost of 
their travel insurance policy, despite their trip being cancelled due to the impact of Covid-19.
What happened
On 5 March 2020 Mr and Mrs M purchased a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten 
by Great Lakes. 
The policy was to cover a trip to Europe due to take place from 11 May 2020 to 15 May 
2020. Mr and Mrs M paid a total premium of £44.08, of which £19.98 was for a travel 
disruption cover extension (also underwritten by Great Lakes).
 
Shortly after this purchase their trip was cancelled due to the impact of Covid-19. Mr and 
Mrs M first contacted Great Lakes on 7 May 2020 to request a full refund of the premium 
theyd paid for their policy. 
Great Lakes offered Mr and Mrs M a 20% discount off the base price of a new travel 
insurance policy. But said that based on the date theyd cancelled the policy, they werent 
eligible for a pro-rata voucher refund. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt think this was fair. They felt they should be refunded the full premium 
theyd paid as they hadnt made use of their policy. So they brought their complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 5 March 2020 and the policy covered 
various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to give Mr and Mrs M a pro-rata voucher refund of the premium they 
paid for their policy (including the optional travel disruption cover extension) from 19 March 
2020 when their trip was cancelled. The investigator also said they felt that a voucher, 
subject to its restrictions and limitations being reasonable, was a fair alternative to a 
monetary refund in the circumstances.
Great Lakes accepted our investigators findings and offered Mr and Mrs M a pro-rata 
voucher refund totalling £35.46. It told us this voucher will be valid for 36 months. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept this offer as they would like a monetary refund. So the case has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
I asked Great Lakes to review the way it had calculated the pro-rata refund amount offered. I 
explained that based on everything provided to me, in simple terms, Great Lakes should 
calculate the refund by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length 
(in days) multiplied by days not on risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Great Lakes has now offered Mr and Mrs M a pro-rata refund. I think a pro-rata refund is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after the cooling off period Great Lakes isnt obliged to give a refund of 
premium - though it does have a discretion to do so in exceptional circumstances. 
Like our investigator, I dont think that the Covid-19 pandemic constitutes a situation 
where it would be reasonable to expect Great Lakes to use the discretion referred to 
here. The examples given in the clause are very personal situations such as 
bereavement, or changes concerning a policyholders medical conditions. Thats not 
whats happened here. The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the travel plans of a 
great many people.
In response to our investigators view Great Lakes has now offered Mr and Mrs M a 
pro-rata refund based on the remaining policy duration from the date at which Mr and 
Mrs Ms trip was cancelled on 19 March 2020. Great Lakes has offered this refund in 
the form of a voucher. The voucher can be used to purchase a new policy, and Great 
Lakes has advised it is valid for 36 months. Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. And I think a pro-rata refund is fair. I dont think it would be reasonable to ask 
Great Lakes to refund the full premium Mr and Mrs M paid as they did have the 
benefit of cancellation cover between 5 March 2020 and 19 March 2020. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs M did not claim under their policy, during this period Great 
Lakes was bearing the risk that they may have had to cancel their trip due to an 
event insured by the policy. And its fair that it should retain some premium for this.
Mr and Mrs M were given a discount at the point of sale. Ive seen the refund 
calculation formula used by Great Lakes. Based on everything provided to me, in 
simple terms, Great Lakes should calculate the refund by dividing the actual price 
paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk.
Mr and Mrs M would like a monetary refund rather than a voucher. But I think a 
voucher is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this case. 
As Ive outlined this offer is more than is required by both the relevant industry 
regulations and the policy terms. And I dont think the terms of the voucher are 
unreasonably restrictive. Mr and Mrs M have told us they do not wish to use Great 
Lakes services again, which is a decision that they are entitled to make. But they did 
choose to enter into a contract with Great Lakes here, paying a premium for a policy 
in return for Great Lakes accepting the risk that they may make a valid claim under 
the policy. The voucher represents the unused days of cover after their trip was 
cancelled. And means the risk Great Lakes accepted at their request is effectively 
moved to a future date.  
Putting things right
 Great Lakes should calculate the value of Mr and Mrs Ms voucher on the following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic annual multi-trip insurance policy 
from the date their policy was cancelled;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional travel disruption extension from 
the date their policy was cancelled. 
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint to the extent that I have outlined above. I direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman