DRN-4228902
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service provided by Halifax Share Dealing Limited (trading as 
IWeb) when he experienced delays during the transfer of shares. 
To put things right, Mr S wants IWeb to pay him financial compensation, including redress 
for the trouble and upset caused whilst he was trying to resolve the matter.
What happened
IWeb notified Mr S on 27 July 2021 about a corporate event which involved the transfer of 
shares owned by Mr S from IWeb to an overseas custodian. The notification included a 
timetable which indicated that a planned distribution was expected to become effective on or 
around 8 November 2021 and after this, the completion time for the transfer would be 
around 28 days. 
On 31 August 2022, IWeb issued an update to shareholders and said it would give notice 
when the transfer request had been completed or if it received any further information.
When Mr S subsequently complained to IWeb, it said it was still in the process of moving the 
shares and unable to confirm how long the process was going to take, but that it would keep 
him updated by way of online notifications. IWeb didnt agree that there had been any 
breach of its customer agreement and said it was unable to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
In the event, the transfer wasnt completed until January 2023.
When our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint, she explained why she wasnt able to 
investigate and/or uphold all his complaint points. But she agreed with Mr S that IWeb 
should have kept him updated on a regular basis given the time taken to complete the 
transfer and she felt that an amount of £150 was fair compensation for the trouble and 
upset hed been caused as a result. 
Mr S hasnt objected to anything the investigator said in her view but IWeb has disagreed 
that any compensation is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. It mainly says that:
it cannot agree there was any obligation on IWeb to keep Mr S more frequently 
updated
it cannot agree that Mr S did not have a sufficient understanding of the situation
repeatedly chasing IWeb for information about matters beyond its control was an 
inconvenience brought upon himself, so IWeb shouldnt be penalised for not 
sending updates. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and having thought about everything I've seen and been 
told, Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator. The investigator 
set out a detailed timeline of events and the background facts are not in dispute. So I dont 
need to say more about what happened. And as Mr S hasnt disagreed with what the 
investigator said about some of the other points he mentioned to us, save for confirming that 
I agree with what the investigator said, theres nothing further I can usefully say about those 
matters. 
The crux of the matter now seems to me to be whether IWeb dealt effectively with its part of 
the transfer process and whether the single update IWeb issued (the notification on 
31 August 2022) was fair and reasonable. If not, I need to consider how service failings on 
the part of IWeb impacted on Mr S and what amount would be fair compensation. So this is 
the focus of my decision.
I agree that Mr S was entitled to expect a better level of service from IWeb than he 
experienced. In saying this, I've taken into account that IWeb has said that the underlying 
company in which Mr S held shares made a decision to move to an ineligible overseas 
market which caused difficulties for its shareholders and left IWeb unable to follow standard 
procedure. Ive also made allowance for the fact that IWeb needed to forge relationships with 
unknown foreign bodies in its attempts to find a resolution for its customers.  
IWeb said that it went above and beyond in its efforts to try and assist these shareholders 
which they had no obligation to do and its clear to me that IWeb went to some lengths to try 
and keep things moving. Ive given IWeb credit for this and I accept that, based on the 
information I've seen, IWeb wasnt responsible for much of the delay. But it appears there 
were weeks at a time when no significant contact or progress was made, and during the 
months of March, May and July 2022 for instance, IWeb doesnt seem to have taken any 
steps to chase things up or try to find out what was happening. So I think it's fair to say IWeb 
could, and should, on occasion have done more to at least try and find out why the transfer 
was taking so long, so it could update anxious customers affected by what was happening 
who were reasonably relying on IWeb to keep them informed.  
And, crucially to my mind, in this situation IWeb should reasonably have been aware that 
Mr S was fairly entitled to be kept updated. Although IWeb has said that he should have 
known he could rely on it to convey any significant development to customers, I think IWeb 
should have understood that its customers reasonable expectations would have been based 
on the information in the corporate action notification and that Mr S was inevitably going to 
be left feeling anxious and concerned by the delay. 
IWeb knew that Mr S was unable to trade his shares or transfer to another provider whilst 
the matter remained outstanding and, by its own admission, that this was a complicated 
transaction which was taking a lot longer than Mr S might reasonably have expected. So 
I think its unsurprising, particularly when IWeb wasnt giving regular updates to help explain 
why things were taking so long, that he felt he needed to chase IWeb for information. I think 
its likely that IWeb could quite easily have put information on the corporate action section of 
customers online accounts, and had more regular updates been provided, its likely this 
would have gone a long way towards reassuring Mr S that IWeb was doing what it was 
required to do at each stage of the transfer  even if the whole process was taking much 
longer than anticipated.  
I can completely understand that what happened was very upsetting and frustrating for Mr S. 
The sale of shares was prompted in the first place by a corporate action event over which he 
(and IWeb) had no direct control. One of the main consequences from Mr Ss point of view was that his inability to trade his shares or transfer to another provider left him feeling his 
shares were worthless. Given that the matter took 14 months or so overall to complete, 
which was well beyond the timescale Mr S had been led to expect, its completely 
understandable that he felt anxious and worried  a situation that was aggravated by the 
lack of regular feedback and information from IWeb. 
Fair compensation needs to properly reflect the impact on Mr S of IWebs service failings on 
this occasion. The £150 suggested by the investigator matches the level of award I would 
make in these circumstances had it not already been proposed. I dont doubt that IWebs 
poor handling of matters, as described above, caused Mr S significant distress and 
inconvenience. I am satisfied that £150 is in line with the amount this service would award in 
similar cases and it is fair compensation for Mr S in his particular circumstances. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr S, if it hasnt already done so, IWeb should pay Mr S £150 
compensation for the impact on him of the service failings I have identified. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Halifax Share Dealing Limited to take the steps set out 
above to put things right for Mr S. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman