DRN-3142009
The complaint
Mrs P is complaining about the way NewDay Ltd handled a chargeback claim she made 
regarding a transaction on her credit card.
What happened
Mrs P bought a holiday wedding package for her daughter and daughters fianc which was 
provided by a travel company who I shall call F. The holiday package was arranged through 
a broker who I shall refer to as W. They were due to travel in May 2021.
In September 2019, F went into administration and the wedding package Mrs P had bought 
was cancelled. Mrs P then contacted NewDay and asked it to process a chargeback to 
recover the money shed spent. NewDay sent a declaration for her to fill out and asked her 
to provide information it required to process the chargeback. Mrs P returned this information 
in October 2019, following which NewDay processed the chargeback. However, the supplier 
defended the claim as it didnt believe Mrs P had provided enough information.
NewDay considered representing the claim but decided to not do so because Mrs P didnt 
book directly with F, so it thought the chargeback would fail. Mrs P didnt agree this was fair 
and referred her complaint to this service to review.
Our investigator upheld the complaint but he didnt think it was fair for NewDay to not 
process the chargeback the second time. He didnt think NewDay had correctly interpreted 
the chargeback rules in this case. And he said guidance had been issued to say that the 
card scheme provider (M) said they view an online travel agent (OTA) as the merchant of 
record, regardless of the terms and conditions disclosed to the cardholder. And, he said M 
explained that a chargeback right exists as the OTA are the agent of the supplier and so 
cant say they are only responsible for the making the reservation  as by accepting payment 
for the service purchased, they assume responsibility for a chargeback if the service is not 
provided.
So the investigator didnt think it was a viable defence to the chargeback claim that the 
booking had been made through an agent  i.e. W.
NewDay didnt agree with the investigator. It also said the chargeback rules required Mrs P 
to evidence shed either claimed for her loss from the Association of British Travel Agents 
(ABTA) and had her claimed declined, or shed provided evidence ABTA wouldnt have 
covered the loss had she claimed. And it didnt think shed provided this.
Our investigator didnt agree with NewDay. He said ABTA had said that people who paid by 
credit or debit card needed to claim through their card provider. He also noted NewDays 
own investigation set out that Mrs P wasnt ABTA protected.
NewDay maintained that Mrs P hadnt provided enough information that she couldnt claim 
through ABTA. It said she should have contacted ABTA and would have been told she 
wasnt protected and this would have been sufficient to support her claim. It maintained 
Mrs P was required to provide a statement from ABTA to say she wasnt protected.
As NewDay didnt agree with the investigator, it asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mrs P is unhappy NewDay didnt process the chargeback a second time. Chargeback is the 
process by which a bank or credit card provider look to resolve a settlement between a 
consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the card provider will 
temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a dispute with the 
merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed period of time with 
any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the chargeback 
shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund is returned to 
the merchant.
In this case, the merchant defended the chargeback because it didnt think Mrs P had 
provided enough information to support the claim  although NewDay hasnt provided a copy 
of the merchants reply. NewDay considered processing the chargeback again, but decided 
to not do so because the payment was done through a third party. And it thought this meant 
Mrs P wasnt eligible for a chargeback. But I think this was an incorrect interpretation of the 
rules.
In May 2020 M issued some guidance on how the rules should be applied in situations such 
as Mrs Ps. And it said the following:
[M] would view the online travel agent (OTA) as the merchant of record, and an agent of the 
travel supplier, regardless of the terms and conditions disclosed to the cardholder. Under [M] 
Standards, the OTA, by accepting payment for the service purchased by the cardholder (e.g. 
flight) and not just for handling the reservation, assumes responsibility for chargebacks if the 
service is not provided. The OTA should work closely with its travel partners or travel 
suppliers to avoid a cardholder getting reimbursed twice for the same transaction.
I acknowledge this guidance was issued after the chargeback was initially processed and 
NewDay declined to process it further. However this wasnt a new way to interpret the rules, 
but just gave further clarity how the rules should be applied. And, ultimately, it says its not a 
defence to a chargeback claim if the holiday package is bought through a third-party agent.
In this case, Mrs P bought the holiday package through W  an online travel agent  but the 
contract was with F. However, under the schemes rules, W was responsible for the 
chargeback. And I think NewDay was wrong to assume W could have used this as a 
defence.
I also note NewDay says Mrs P wasnt eligible for the chargeback because she hadnt 
initially sought to claim for the loss from ABTA. However, I dont agree with this. I dont 
dispute the schemes rules set out that, to be eligible for a chargeback, Mrs P needed to 
have tried to claim from ABTA and had the claim declined or not had a response. But the 
rules also say this doesnt apply if the merchant or ABTA had already said the claim wouldnt 
succeed.
Firstly, Im conscious NewDay had already concluded Mrs P couldnt claim for the loss from ABTA. In particular its internal notes set out the card holder has provided all the necessary 
documents in the repudiation response and is also not protected by ABTA. Further to this, 
Im conscious ABTA also said Mrs P will need to submit [her] claim for a refund to [her] card 
issuer. I can also see this information was given to NewDay by Mrs P in her initial 
submissions.
So Im satisfied that there was sufficient evidence available to show that Mrs P wouldnt have 
been able to claim for her loss through ABTA. So I dont think this was grounds for NewDay 
to not process the chargeback.
However, even if Im wrong on this, NewDay should have explained this to Mrs P at the 
outset, but it didnt do so. This delay has meant shes now time-barred from being able to 
raise the chargeback claim further.
Ultimately, its not disputed Mrs P didnt get the service she was entitled to under her 
contract with F. Had NewDay strongly pursued the chargeback, on balance, I think its likely 
it would have succeeded. So I think Mrs P has lost out as a result of NewDays unfair 
decision to not process the chargeback. Given this, I think NewDay should refund the £1,200 
Mrs P paid. I think it should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount from 16 March 2020 
(the date it unfairly decided to not process the chargeback) until she gets it back. 
I think Mrs P has suffered some unnecessary distress and inconvenience as a result of 
NewDays handling of her chargeback claim. The investigator awarded £100 in 
compensation for this and I think this is fair.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require NewDay Ltd to do the following:
1. Pay Mrs P £1,200  the amount she claimed through chargeback;
2. Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from 16 March 2020 (the date it unfairly decided 
to not process the chargeback) until she gets it back*; and
3. Pay Mrs P £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused her.
If NewDay thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman