DRN-3176582
The complaint
Mrs K complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with her initial contact with it 
in relation to a claim against her travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its 
agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs K has travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account. On 
19 October 2019 she departed the UK for a trip and intended to return to the UK on       
27 December 2019. 
I understand that before her planned return flight, Mrs K realised that shed lost important 
medication she needed to take before flying. She remained in her destination country 
and tried to source the medication but had difficulty doing so. I understand that by the 
time shed replaced the medication, there were no return flights available because of the 
difficulties arising out of Covid-19. 
In June 2020, Mrs K contacted UKI for assistance. In its final response to Mrs K in     
July 2020, UKI said that it had provided poor service to Mrs K in June and July 2020 in 
that:
It didnt take into account Mrs Ks particular circumstances and the 
telecommunication issues in the country she was in when it asked her to provide 
supporting information within 24 hours.
It told Mrs K, incorrectly, that the policy covered trips up to 31 days whereas     
Mrs K had purchased a trip extension.
 It misunderstood the position in relation to Mrs Ks medication and asked her 
why she hadnt travelled with sufficient medication for her original return flight 
when she had already told it that she had lost the medication. 
UKI offered Mrs K compensation of £100. Mrs K didnt think that was enough and 
pursued her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She recommended that UKI pay 
Mrs K a further £100, making total compensation £200. UKI agreed to the investigators 
recommendation. Mrs K didnt think that total compensation of £200 was sufficient. As 
there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide.  
In this decision, I deal with the issues Mrs K has previously raised with UKI, to which it 
responded on 23 July 2020. This decision doesnt deal with UKIs response to any 
subsequent claim Mrs K made against her policy. If Mrs K makes a claim and isnt 
satisfied with UKIs response, she should first complain to UKI about that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that UKI provided Mrs K with poor service in response to her initial 
contacts with it in June and July 2020. Ive set out above the elements of poor service that 
occurred here.
This was no doubt a worrying time for Mrs K. UKI added to Mrs Ks distress and 
inconvenience by putting her under pressure to provide information and supporting 
documentation in a very narrow time frame which was unrealistic in the circumstances. UKI 
also gave Mrs K incorrect information about her cover and misunderstood what shed told it 
about her medication. That was understandably worrying and frustrating for Mrs K at an 
already stressful time. 
Ive considered the matter carefully and I agree with the investigator that total compensation 
of £200 is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that view Ive taken into account the 
nature, extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience Mrs K suffered as a result of 
the poor service provided by UKI. 
For these reasons, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, UKI should pay Mrs K additional compensation of £100, taking 
the total compensation to £200. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. I now require U K Insurance Limited to 
take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman