DRN-4388204
The complaint
The estate of Mr P are unhappy with the service they received from Zurich Insurance PLC 
and that theyve refused to settle a claim they wanted to make on the late Mr Ps travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P sadly died very unexpectedly. Mr Ps son contacted Zurich to let them know. Zurich 
asked to see some documentation and then asked if any claims were to be made. Mr Ps 
son confirmed that no claims were going to be made. The policy was cancelled, and a refund 
was issued. 
Within a few days it became apparent that there was a potential claim on the policy for costs 
Mr P had already paid. Zurich said it couldnt consider the claim as the policy was cancelled. 
The estate of Mr P complained to Zurich, but they maintained their decision to decline the 
claim. Unhappy, they complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought Zurich had acted reasonably as theyd checked if there were going to be any claims 
before cancelling the policy. So, she didnt think Zurich had acted unreasonably by declining 
to reinstate the policy and cover the claim. 
The estate of Mr P didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They 
highlighted that they had recently suffered a sudden bereavement and realised within a very 
short period of time that they would need to claim. They also subsequently highlighted that 
theyd received a further document from Zurich and questioned if the policy had actually 
been cancelled. Zurich clarified that this had been generated automatically when documents 
were sent to The Financial Ombudsman Service.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the circumstances of this complaint, particularly given that Mr Ps death 
was sudden and unexpected. I empathise with what the estate of Mr P have said about this 
and would like to offer my condolences to them. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Zurich has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. At the time that 
the estate wanted to make a claim the policy had been cancelled. So there was no contract 
of insurance in place. Therefore, there was no obligation for Zurich to pay the claim. 
Ive also considered whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, 
including what happened when Mr Ps son contacted Zurich to notify them of Mr Ps death. 
They checked whether any claims were to be made and were told there wasnt. They then 
promptly issued a refund. So, I think Zurich treated the estate fairly and I dont think it would 
fair and reasonable to direct them to pay the claim. 
I think it is most likely that the correspondence more recently received is an administrative 
error, linked to Zurich producing documents to provide to The Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Im not considering a complaint about this particular point as the estate would need 
to complain to Zurich first. However, this further information hasnt persuaded me that its fair 
and reasonable to conclude the policy was cancelled. I think it was and thats also reflected 
in the refund of the premiums given. 
Ive also considered what Mr Ps son has said about being referred to by his fathers name 
repeatedly during a call. Zurich accepted that happened and I can see that they offered an 
apology in their final response letter. The estate of Mr P, including Mr Ps son, bring the 
complaint on the late Mr Ps behalf as they are authorised in law to do so. Therefore, the 
Financial Ombudsman Service cannot compensate an executor for any impact experienced 
by them personally when representing the estate. So, I dont think Zurich need to do 
anything further to put things right here.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman