DRN-4073788
The complaint
Mr R complains about the amount Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited charged him when 
he cancelled his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R purchased a black box car insurance policy through Atlanta, who is a broker. The 
policy was due to start a couple of weeks later. However, a few days after Mr R bought it he 
decided to cancel the policy before it commenced. 
Atlanta let Mr R know there would be a fee of £125 as this was the arrangement fee which 
was non-refundable. This was because the policy had been set up and arranged and now 
needed to be cancelled. Mr R wasnt happy and asked to speak with a manager. A few days 
later the manager called him back and confirmed the arrangement fee but agreed to reduce 
it by £25 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr R wasnt happy and complained. He didnt agree he 
had to pay a fee and said it had taken too long to call him back and now other policies were 
more expensive. 
Atlanta reviewed the complaint and stood by its position that the non-refundable 
arrangement fee applied. However, it apologised for the call back taking a few days and 
refunded another £25 of the arrangement fee. This meant, after Mr R received his refund, he 
had been charged £75 as the non-refundable arrangement fee. Unhappy with Atlantas 
response, Mr R referred his complaint here.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found the 
sales process was clear there was a non-refundable arrangement fee of £125, and it was 
also clear within the terms of business. He also found that while the policy had been 
cancelled within the cooling off period, it was fair for Mr R to be charged an amount 
proportionate for the services provided. As Mr R had purchased a black box policy, these 
required the telematics systems to be set up and, as this had been done, he was satisfied it 
was fair and reasonable for Atlanta to charge the arrangement fee. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of business for Mr Rs policy under the section for telematics policy charges say: 
Non-refundable New Business set up fee. Next to this it says £125. 
Ive also seen the online sales process Mr R used where it has a section titled IMPORTANT 
INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR POLICY and under this it says: Non-refundable New 
Business set up fee of £125. Before Mr R can continue, he then has to confirm hes read 
the terms and conditions and also the additional telematics terms and conditions which 
contain the telematics set up fee. 
I understand Mr R disagrees any fees should be charged and referred to his legal rights, 
specifically being able to cancel within 14 days and get a full refund. And while Mr R is 
correct in that hes able to cancel within the cooling off period and not incur a penalty. The 
rules also say Atlanta can charge proportionately for the services provided. 
When considering this is a telematics policy which requires additional work to set up and 
cancel, Im not persuaded Atlanta has done anything wrong. I say this because the fee is 
clear when taking out the policy and in the terms of business. I can also see Atlanta has 
reduced the fee to £75, albeit partly due to a delay in calling back. But when taking this all 
into account, Im satisfied Atlanta has acted fairly and reasonably in what it has charged Mr 
R. Im therefore not going to tell Atlanta to do anything else.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman