DRN-3496984
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) made him feel like a criminal
with how they treated him in relation to their security processes.
What happened
Mr P attempted to make a payment online to a friend of his for £5,000 as part of a car
purchase. But when he tried to attempt the payment on the phone, he couldnt type in the full
payee name so he used a computer to do this.
Mr P received a call from RBSs fraud department who wanted to make sure it was
genuinely Mr P attempting to make the payment. The call handler asked Mr P to double
check the details with his friend and then told him to ring back to confirm the payment details
were correct.
Mr P did this and rang RBS back. Mr P says he answered the questions the call handler
asked him about the attempted transfer, the purpose of the transfer and other security
details, but the call handler then started asking him questions about his business customers
and different accounts to the account he was attempting to transact on. Mr P says he was
told by the call handler that he would fail their security process if he was unable to answer
the questions she was asking, and the call handler asked him if he wanted her to reject the
payment.
The call handler then told Mr P that the transaction would be on hold and this would prevent
access to his online account. Mr P says she told him he would have to go into the branch
with several documents and then she disconnected the phone call.
Mr P says he had to visit his local branch, although he lives far away from the branch and he
identified himself with the branch. He says the branch rang through to the fraud department
and passed him the phone to speak to them, but the fraud call handler asked him personal
questions in the middle of a busy bank waiting area. Mr P says he didnt give this information
to the call handler and the fraud call handler disconnected his call.
Mr P raised a complaint with the branch about how hed been treated. He said when he
returned home, he attempted to make a small payment via a mobile application and internet
banking, but he was unable to, as his online access was still restricted. Mr P contacted RBS
on the phone and was able to gain access to his account without restrictions after the call.
Mr P says he spent approximately eight hours on this issue.
RBS partially upheld Mr Ps complaint and credited £111.60 to his account (£80 for an
apology, £10 for his travel to the branch and £21.60 for his telephone calls). They said that
they were unable to uphold the part of his complaint about restricting his account if they
believed his account was at risk and also for referring him to the branch. RBS said that they
were upholding the part of his complaint about the rude service he received from the bank,
the time he had to spend on the phone and the payment not being authorised after he had
left the branch.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service. He said RBS should pay him £50 per hour he
wasted and £5,000 for the way they treated him. Our investigator said that she felt RBS
followed the correct process when dealing with his payment. She said that while the security
questions may seem extreme, fraudsters are often changing their approaches and that
meant so do banks when it comes to checking the payment is genuine. Our investigator felt
the compensation RBS offered was reasonable.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I need to explain to Mr P that its not the role of this service to say how a business should run
their security processes, however, Ive looked to see if RBS have followed their own security
process. While RBS have said they have followed their security process, Ive considered
whether theyve treated Mr P fairly when carrying out their security process, but Im not
persuaded they have. Ill explain why below.
Ive listened to the telephone calls that Mr P had on the day in question. The first call is a call
from RBS to him, as they are concerned the transaction may not be genuine. Mr P goes
through numerous security questions with the call handler, including details of the proposed
purchase he was trying to make. While it may seem a lot of questions, Im satisfied the
questions were relevant and necessary to ensure that Mr P was genuinely trying to make the
transaction. Mr P was able to answer all of the questions and did not object to any of the
questions asked. The call handler asked him to double check the payee details with the
person he was trying to transfer the money to and was asked to call back RBS when he did
this.
Mr P did this and I listened to the second phone call he had that day with RBS. This call
lasted less than five minutes as Mr P had been put on hold but the line had disconnected. I
cant say how this happened, but Im not persuaded it had too much of an impact on the
events that happened, as the call handler rang back Mr P while he thought he was on hold.
The next call I listened to was when the call handler rang him back from the previous call
straight away. Im satisfied that the conversation started off well, with Mr P joking about
selling the car to the call handler and Mr P answered all of the questions he was asked,
including a lot of detailed questions about the car he was planning on purchasing. Again, up
to this point, Im satisfied that the call went as it should have gone. While there were a lot of
questions asked, Im satisfied they were to ensure Mr P was fully aware of the purchase he
was planning on making and the questions were all linked to this.
But shortly after the call handler came back from placing Mr P on hold, the call handler said
she was going to ask him about questions on his account he tried to make the payment
from. She then said Im just asking, erm, I see some, I wont ask you about this one sir
actually, because the last payment that came into your account was in June, Id rather just
discuss a payment from July, so just give me a second, I do apologise, Ill just go to a
different (inaudible) account.
She then goes on to say Im just looking at one of your business accounts. But its not clear
why the call handler goes from the personal account that Mr P was trying to make thetransaction from to a business account. While I can understand that the call handler may
want to find a more recent transaction to ask Mr P questions about, Im not persuaded that
by doing this, that this treated Mr P fairly.
The call handler was discussing the source of funds for the payment Mr P was attempting to
make. But as the source of funds were in a personal account, then I can understand why Mr
P was bemused by the line of questioning. I would be satisfied if RBS were asking the
questions about the source of funds in his personal account where the money was coming
from, but a business is a separate entity to a person.
The transaction the call handler asked Mr P about was for a fraction of the transfer he was
wanting to make, and the reference she read out to Mr P for the payment alluded to what the
payment was for. So if the call handler did need to ask about the source of funds for the
transfer, I would expect her to do what she initially appeared she was going to do and ask for
the details of the payment he received in June, on the account he was wanting to transact
on.
If Mr P would not have remembered the details of the income in June then the call handler
couldve moved onto other security questions, but she didnt give Mr P the opportunity to
answer what she appeared she was going to ask him, so by just going to a different account
it appears that there wasnt a set process for her to go from a personal account from where
the payment was being made to, to a business account which would appear to have no or
little relevance to the attempted transaction.
I asked RBS if they could explain why business account information was asked as opposed
to the information about the personal account where the transaction was coming from. RBS
confirmed to me that the call handler was attempting to pass him through security by asking
questions, to be satisfied they were speaking to a genuine account holder and not a
fraudster, hence why they would ask questions that they feel only the genuine customer to
know the answers to, which may sound irrelevant to Mr P, but not to the agent who has to
protect Mr Ps accounts.
So although the call handler followed the process here, by focusing on one transaction in
regards to a question about the source of his funds for a personal payment on a business
account, which is a different entity than a personal account and RBS confirmed to me that
Mr P holds the business account with another party (and therefore he might not be as aware
of the transactions of the account, as another person may be able to act on the account
without Mr Ps knowledge, as opposed to a personal account in his own name), Im
persuaded this led to an unfair outcome for Mr P.
I say this as Mr P did not give a wrong answer to a question asked, he was bemused why
the call handler was asking questions about a separate entity, when the call handler said she
needed to find out the source of funds. The call handler said the reason for this when she
was asked why she needed to know about this was in the terms and conditions. Ive had a
look at the terms and conditions of the account and while RBS can suspend, restrict or stop
access to an account if they believe it's appropriate to protect someones account, Im not
persuaded that the call handler answered Mr Ps questions in line with the context they were
asked.
Im persuaded it would have been reasonable for the call handler to either explain to Mr P
why she was asking the information about the source of funds/income on a business
account, without just saying its in the terms and conditions or to ask about the source of
funds from the account it was coming from. I say this as the terms and conditions dont say
that that RBS would ask about accounts which have a different legal definition (individual vs
business). And, when the call handler asked about the source of funds, on the businessaccount, she would have been able to see that no transfers being made from the business
account were being transferred to the account was being transacted from. So this would
have no relevance to the source of funds he was using to buy the car and she had already
verified she was talking to Mr P when he passed the initial security.
So Im persuaded the call handler could have simply asked Mr P another question about his
income on his personal account, when he didnt want to answer a business question, as she
initially seemed she was going to ask. Im persuaded that the rationale she gave to Mr P for
this wasnt entirely accurate, based on the source of funds being part of a separate entity
and the reason for this not being in the terms and conditions regarding the source of funds,
despite her repeating this on a number of occasions. And if Mr P didnt have a business
account, she would have asked him another question on a personal account anyway.
But thats not all I think inconvenienced Mr P. After this conversation Mr P and the call
handler are discussing whether the payment would be released/rejected/held. The call
handler says so what Im going to do, Im going to keep the payment on hold sir, or Im
going to reject the payment as per your request, what would you like us to do.
So here Mr P had a choice of what could happen after the call handler had said she wouldnt
release the payment. Mr P had previously asked the call handler to cancel the payment
when he said ok ok, dont release that payment, cancel the payment when he was
frustrated with the questions being asked about his business account. He later confirms that
he didnt want the payment cancelled.
But the call handler chose to keep the payment on hold which then restricted his online
access. I asked RBS if the payment had been rejected what impact would this have had on
his account (eg none, he would still be able to use internet banking, wouldnt need to go to
the branch etc) and RBS said that if Mr P was happy to reject the payment then they would
have reinstated all access to his account. RBS also said that as Mr P had not answered the
question asked by the call handler then there also could be inconvenience for Mr P rejecting
the payment.
But here, the call handler had a choice of options. She could have rejected/cancelled the
payment which would have no immediate impact on Mr P (it could have inconvenienced Mr
P if he attempted to make the payment again) or keep the payment on hold which
inconvenienced Mr P as his account access was restricted and he needed to make a visit to
the branch, which didnt rectify his issue either.
So Im not persuaded Mr P was treated fairly here as the fair option would have been to
reject/cancel the payment and explain the consequences of this. I appreciate at the time the
decision was made that Mr P and the call handler kept repeating their points and no
progress was being made, so a choice had to be made, but Im persuaded that the option
which would inconvenience Mr P more was chosen over the option which would have no
immediate impact on Mr P.
In addition, when Mr P was told he needed to visit the branch, he was told that he would
need to bring in the bank statement of the person he was trying to transfer money to. But Im
not persuaded that this would be reasonable and I wouldnt expect a third party to simply
hand over their financial details, showing their balances and transactions. So Im not
persuaded that this would be necessary to get a personal bank statement of a friend in order
to make the payment.
Ive listened to the call which Mr P had when he was in the branch. Im satisfied that the call
handler treated Mr P fairly. He acknowledged that he didnt have access to any notes from
the previous call handler and hadnt spoken to her. He didnt ask any questions about Mr Psbusiness account. While I can understand Mr Ps frustrations about what led up to this point,
he doesnt give the call handler even basic information about the transaction and he says
Im not willing to talk about personal details with someone I do not know, simple as that. So
I cant say that this call handler did anything wrong by not allowing the transaction to go
through here.
Ive then listened to the call Mr P had when the restrictions were lifted. Im satisfied Mr P was
treated here fairly also. The call handler explained why he was unable to allow the
transaction to go through and lifted the restriction on the account. While he said Mr P would
need proof of payment, Im persuaded the call handler said this as Mr P told him what a
previous call handler told him and the call handler said he couldnt go against what Mr P had
previously been told. The last call handler lifted the restrictions on Mr Ps online banking and
cancelled the payment.
Ive considered what Mr P has said regarding the compensation he should be paid from RBS
- £50 an hour for his time wasted and £5,000. It may help if I explain that compensation is a
discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted
wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer over and
above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend compensation, it is
often modest and within our established guidelines.
Our service also doesnt generally award compensation based on someones hourly rate.
We wouldnt usually value one persons time as worth more than another persons time.
Instead, we consider the overall impact an error had on someone.
Here the issue with making the payment was resolved within 6-8 hours of the same day. I
understand that this had a big impact on Mr P though as he was inconvenienced by visiting
the branch when there were alternatives to not doing so and being told information out of
context.
So Ive considered what would be a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. Ive
considered that RBS has covered the costs of his travel to the branch (£10) and the cost of
his telephone calls (£21.60) and Im satisfied that this is fair compensation for these costs.
Ive also considered whether £80 is fair as an apology. But Im not persuaded that it is. While
the impact of the events lasted between 6-8 hours, Im satisfied that the third call Mr P had
with RBS (with the same person as the second call when it was disconnected) had a larger
impact on him and led to a chain of events which could have been avoidable.
Im persuaded that an extra £120, (£200 in total for an apology) would be more reasonable
for RBS to pay Mr P. I believe this is reasonable based on the experience he had on the call.
While technically speaking, the call handler may have followed RBSs security process, the
inconvenience she caused Mr P by not answering his questions in the context they were
asked and keeping the payment on hold would have caused Mr P inconvenience. Im
satisfied that the call couldve been handled better and there were many other ways Mr P
could have passed the security procedure, so Im persuaded that she caused Mr P
inconvenience by restricting his account  even though she had the option of rejecting the
payment, which she had offered to Mr P.
If this option would have been acted upon then it would have saved Mr P travelling to the
branch and back, which I understand is a long way away from his place of residence and it
would have saved him a lot of time in the branch, the time on the phone to the next fraud call
handler and the call where the last call handler lifted the restrictions on Mr Ps account, so
Im persuaded this could have been resolved 4-5 hours earlier if this action had been taken.
So it follows Ill be asking RBS to put things right for Mr P.I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. RBS responded and they said they had no further information to add. Mr P 
responded and he gave his understanding of the provisional decision. While he did not 
provide me with any further information for me to consider, he asked if I could make RBS 
aware of his comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. In regard to Mr P 
asking me to make RBS aware of his comments, I will ask our investigator to forward the 
comments to RBS. I must make Mr P aware though, that they are not obliged to respond to 
his comments.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask RBS to pay Mr P an extra £120 
compensation for inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given 
previously.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr P an extra 
£120 compensation for inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman