DRN-2594240
The complaint
Mrs W complains Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax (HBOS) unfairly charged her interest 
on her credit card account after returning a payment shed made to clear the balance. She 
also says it switched her to paperless statements, so she wasnt aware this had happened. 
 
What happened
Mrs W had a credit card account with HBOS. It had an interest free period which ended in 
July 2019. Throughout that period, Mrs W met the monthly minimum payment by direct debit. 
On 8 July 2019, Mrs W transferred £100 to her credit card account from another account she 
held with HBOS. And the following day she transferred a further £8400 to clear the 
outstanding balance. HBOS says it returned both payments on 10 July 2019 as Mrs W had 
used the wrong reference on the transfers. It says the reference shouldve been her credit 
card number but she used the number of an old credit card account which was closed. 
In January 2020 HBOS wrote to Mrs W about her account. And she says it was after she 
received this letter that she became aware her payment had been returned. Mrs Ws 
explained she immediately paid off the outstanding balance and some further interest 
charged the following month. But shed been charged around £724 in interest for the time 
from July 2019 until she repaid the balance. 
Mrs W says she didnt receive any statements for her accounts, so she wasnt aware the 
payment had been returned. Shes explained she doesnt use her HBOS accounts often so 
didnt have a reason to check them. She thinks HBOS either turned off her paper statements 
without her agreeing or forced her to opt out of paperless statements. HBOS doesnt agree. 
It says its the normal process for customers to opt-in to paperless statements. 
Mrs W also doesnt think HBOS acted reasonably in returning the payment and not 
contacting her to tell her what had happened. She thinks it shouldve been obvious which 
account the funds were meant for as she only had one open credit card account. HBOS has 
said the payment was automatically returned and its not its usual process to make direct 
contact with customers in this type of situation. 
Unable to resolve things, Mrs W asked our service to look into her complaint. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he didnt think HBOS had done anything wrong. 
And he thought it was unlikely it had switched Mrs W to paperless statements without her 
agreement. As Mrs W didnt agree with our investigator, the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the information weve received carefully, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint, I know Mrs W will be disappointed. Ill explain why. 
Incorrect payment 
To make a payment to Mrs Ws credit card account online, her statements show shed need 
to make the payment to HBOS using her credit card number as a reference. That seems to 
be how HBOS identifies which account the funds are intended for  and I dont think this is 
unusual. Mrs W used the wrong reference when transferring her funds. And as that account 
was closed, I dont think its unreasonable the payment was returned. 
Mrs Ws thinks it was HBOS responsibility to make sure the funds were allocated correctly. 
But that is what I think it did in this case. HBOS used the reference number Mrs W provided 
to identify the account she wanted her payment to be made to. So Im satisfied it followed 
her instructions and made the payment correctly. Whilst I empathise with Mrs W and 
understand it must be extremely disappointing to have lost out so significantly because of a 
simple error, I dont think it would be fair to direct HBOS to compensate her when I dont 
agree its done anything wrong.
I know Mrs W thinks HBOS shouldve either got in touch with her or it shouldve been able to 
tell which account she intended the funds to be paid to. But HBOS has said this isnt part of 
its usual process  as the return of the payment was automated. I understand Mrs W was 
transferring a large amount of money. But that doesnt mean Id expect HBOS to do anything 
differently in this case  in particular, I wouldnt expect it to assume which account the funds 
should go to as that couldve caused further problems. 
Mrs Ws given us a screenshot of her payment list from her online banking screen to show 
both payees for the old and new credit card accounts look the same  as they both have the 
same account number and sort code. But this doesnt make a difference in this case. Im 
satisfied once she selected the relevant payee, she wouldve had the option to see and 
amend the reference as that seems to be standard practice. And from the screenshot shes 
given our service, I can see this page allowed her to manage her payees  so I think she 
couldve removed the old credit card account to avoid any confusion.
Paperless statements
Mrs Ws said the last time she received paper statements for her accounts was in 2018. She 
thinks HBOS forced her to switch to paperless statements and shes sent us a video to show 
this. Ive looked carefully at the video and information shes provided  bearing in mind its 
from now rather than from 2018 when her statements changed. And from what Ive seen, 
whilst I accept HBOS asks customers if they want to switch to paperless statements when 
logging in online, I think Mrs W had the option not to. HBOS has said it doesnt require 
customers to opt-out and Mrs W wouldve needed to select paperless statements herself. 
And the information shes given us doesnt show me anything different. 
In any event, even if Mrs W hadnt opted in for paperless statements, it doesnt automatically 
follow that Id think HBOS should refund the interest accrued. Mrs W hadnt received paper-
based statements for around a year by the time she made the complaint. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest she questioned or queried this. Whilst her statements werent posted to 
her, she did still have access to them and her online facility. But shes said she didnt check 
them because she rarely used her account. So Im not satisfied she wouldve done anything 
differently even if her statements werent paperless. 
I understand Mrs Ws asked about the professional background of our ombudsmen. And 
whilst I dont think that is relevant to this complaint as we look at each case individually and 
based on the evidence given to us by both parties, I suggest she visits our website where 
shell be able to see the background of all ombudsmen on our panel. Mrs Ws also given us examples of HBOS treating customers unfairly in the past. But as Ive 
said above, Ive reached my decision based on whats happened in this case only. And 
overall, I dont think HBOS has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman