DRN-3067423
The complaint
Miss S complains that TSB Bank plcs internet banking service has been unreliable.
What happened
Miss S has a current account and a savings account with TSB. In November 2020 she had 
trouble accessing her accounts online when she wanted to make a payment. This was the 
result of a system outage which also affected other customers. She complained, and TSB 
apologised and paid her compensation. It said that the problem had been resolved later that 
same day, but Miss S says that does not take into account the fact that she had wasted time 
trying to make the online payment several times before the problem was resolved. She 
made her payment the next day, and she says that is not good enough.
The same problem recurred in January, April and May 2021, and Miss S complained each 
time. TSB has paid her a total of £230 in compensation for these four problems, but Miss S 
was not satisfied, and so she brought this complaint to our service. She says that her time is 
worth a great deal of money because she runs her own business, and she insists that 
£1,000 would be fair compensation. She also says that the problem has happened more 
than four times, and that it is no exaggeration to say that she regularly encounters a problem 
whenever she tries to log in to her online banking with TSB. (She has since moved to 
another bank for most purposes, but still uses TSB for her direct debits.)
TSB accepted that there had been some outages, but it said that these had not lasted for 
long and had been fixed on the same day. It argued that Miss S had been able to make her 
payments, or transfer money between her accounts, on the same day or on the next day. It 
also pointed out that Miss S did not have to rely on internet banking to make payments or to 
transfer her money; she could also have used telephone banking, which was not affected by 
the outages, or she could have visited a local branch. It did not accept that Miss S had been 
inconvenienced to the extent that she had suggested, and maintained that £230 was fair 
compensation for her trouble. It added that no digital service can be guaranteed to never fail.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that TSB had acted promptly each 
time there had been a problem, and that the problems had all been resolved on the same 
day that they had occurred. Each time, TSB had apologised, had recognised Miss Ss 
inconvenience, had paid her compensation, and had given her the opportunity to provide 
evidence of any financial loss she might have incurred, so that it could review her complaints 
and pay more compensation if that was merited. There had been minimal or no financial 
impact to her due to these issues. So she concluded that £230 had been fair compensation.
Miss S asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that £230 is fair compensation for what happened. There is 
no evidence to corroborate Miss Ss assertion that the problems continued on an almost 
daily basis, and so I have approached this complaint on the basis that the problems only 
occurred on the four occasions that Miss S complained about, which are the times when lots 
of TSBs customers were affected all at once by a large scale system failure. While I do 
recognise that these occasions must have been irritating, there is no suggestion that any 
financial loss was caused by the short delays which they caused to the transactions which 
Miss S was seeking to perform, which were usually transfers of her money between her own 
accounts. While the payment she was making to a third party has been described as urgent, 
there is no evidence that the delay to the next day caused any trouble, other than the 
frustration that Miss S must have experienced at the time.
I also take into account the fact  which Miss S has never disputed  that she could have 
achieved her objectives by telephone banking. That would have avoided her wasting her 
time on repeating her attempts to carry out the transactions online. I have read in her 
complaint form that she told us she lost hours trying to speak to a person on the phone, but 
since TSBs telephone banking service is automated,1 I think that she must have been 
describing her attempts to speak to someone about the internet banking service. This is time 
that would have been better spent using the automated telephone banking service instead.
For all of these reasons, I do not think that this complaint is worth £1,000. TSB has acted 
fairly in its resolution of Miss Ss complaints, and I do not require it to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2021. But she does not have to reply, and if we 
dont hear from her then we will presume that she rejects my decision. If she does reply, we 
will not engage in any further discussion about the merits of her complaint, because she has 
reached the end of our process. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 https://www.tsb.co.uk/help/telephone-banking/ 