DRN-3571410
The complaint
Miss M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (NewDay) irresponsibly gave her a 
credit card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In November 2017, Miss M applied for a credit card account with NewDay. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £300. The credit limit was never increased. 
In 2021, Miss M complained to NewDay to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that NewDay ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint not be upheld. Miss S didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ms complaint is that NewDay made credit available that was unaffordable. NewDay 
has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending. Its possible that NewDay 
failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss M with credit. But even if thats true, I 
dont think better enquiries would have caused NewDay to think the initial credit limit was 
unaffordable. 
I say this because Miss M told NewDay at the point of sale that she was employed and 
earning a good salary. The initial credit limit was very modest and the maximum monthly 
payments for that credit would also have been very modest. I have noted the existing 
borrowing but do not think this was so substantial as to make this lending automatically 
unreasonable. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss M to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led NewDay to think that the credit it 
provided Miss M was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what NewDay could 
see of her management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently 
than it did. 
I know that Miss M will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss M to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman