DRN-3327505
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that the fee waiver on their current account with Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds) is finishing. They think it is unfair that Lloyds is able to change the rules on 
existing accounts.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have had a gold account with Lloyds for a number of years. With the account 
came various insurance benefits which were free providing a minimum balance was 
maintained in their account.  In June 2021 Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs W to inform them that 
from September 2021 the fee waiver would no longer apply and there would be a monthly 
fee on the account if they wanted to continue to receive the benefits of the account.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Lloyds who said the change in pricing structure of the account 
was in line with the terms and conditions of the account and paid them £45 to allow them 
time to decide if they wanted to continue with the account and the benefits that came with it.
Mr and Mrs W were dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Ws concerns and reached the conclusion 
Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly and so didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs W are complaining that Lloyds has decided to drop the fee waiver on their 
account that they have enjoyed for a number of years. Before I go any further, I want to be 
clear in saying that I havent considered whether the amount Lloyds is charging for its 
current accounts are fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the benefit and 
service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. Just like it is up 
to Mr and Mrs W to decide whether to accept what Lloyds is offering or to take their business 
elsewhere. And providing Lloyds notified Mr and Mrs W of the change in the pricing structure 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account, it isnt something for me to get involved 
with. 
And from what I can see Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs W in June 2021 giving them 60 days 
notice of the dropping of its fee waiver which is allowed under the terms and conditions of 
Lloyds accounts. And Mr and Mrs W have not disputed receiving this notification. So 
although I understand Mr and Mrs W may be unhappy about now having to pay for a benefit 
theyve enjoyed for free in the past, I cant say Lloyds has done anything wrong here.
I also note that Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs W £45 (the equivalent of 3 months worth of account 
fees) to allow them more time to decide whether they wanted to continue with the gold 
account which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
So it follows that I do not uphold this complaint as Lloyds has not made an error or done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman