DRN-4373352
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Credit Card 
(Tesco), unfairly turned down her claim made about something bought using her credit 
card.
What happened
In 2012, Mrs H, alongside her husband, purchased holiday club membership from a 
business Ill call Business D. This cost £10,350 and was paid by Mrs H making a number of 
payments using her Tesco credit card.1 But this credit card payment wasnt made directly to 
Business D, rather it went to a different business Ill call Business F.
In 2017, using a professional representative (PR), Mrs H made a claim to Tesco under s.75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). In short, Mrs H said Business D made 
misrepresentations at the time of the sale that, under s.75 CCA, Tesco was jointly 
responsible to answer. It also said that Business D had breached the terms of the 
membership, again something Tesco could be jointly liable for under s.75 CCA.
Tesco responded, but didnt think there was enough to say there had been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation as alleged. But Mrs H didnt agree, so referred a complaint to 
our service that Tesco hadnt properly considered her claim.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think Tesco needed to do 
anything further. They considered potential claims under both s.75 and s.140A CCA, but 
didnt think there was enough to say there had been a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract as alleged or that there was an unfair relationship caused by the purchase. A 
different investigator considered everything again and thought that Tesco only needed to 
consider a claim under s.75 CCA, but again, they didnt think there was enough to say Tesco 
needed to accept the claim.
PR said that Mrs H didnt agree with the view and asked for the matter to be looked at again 
by an ombudsman. It provided substantial submissions detailing problems it said there were 
with Business D membership and argued that this led to a breach of contract. It also 
supplied submissions from counsel titled Generic submissions on behalf of complainants, in 
which it was argued that problems with Business D membership could lead to an unfair 
debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA.
I considered everything and, having done so, agreed with our investigator that Mrs Hs 
complaint shouldnt be upheld, but for different reasons. So I issued a provisional decision, 
setting out my thoughts, and I invited both parties to respond.
I explained that when deciding complaints, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA  
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
1 Although the membership was in the names of Mr and Mrs H, as the credit card used was in Mrs Hs 
name, only she is able to make this complaint
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
As PR brought a claim on Mrs Hs behalf under s.75 CCA, I thought it was helpful to set out 
the relevant legal provisions.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by 
the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
s.140A CCA states:
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not done) 
by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
Section 140C CCA says that the reference in s.140A CCA to a related agreement include a 
linked transaction in relation to the main agreement, which is defined in s.19 CCA as:
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any other person (the other party), except one for the provision of security, is a linked 
transaction in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the principal 
agreement) of which it does not form part if -

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the 
transaction is financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement
I said that the upshot of this was that there needed to be a D-C-S agreement in place for the 
lender (here Tesco) to be liable to the borrower (here Mrs H) for the misrepresentations or 
breaches of contract of the supplier (here Business D). But, on the face of it, there were no 
such arrangements in place at the relevant times as Business D wasnt paid directly using 
the credit card, rather the payments were taken by Business F.
There are ways in which there can be a D-C-S agreement in place, even if the supplier isnt 
paid directly using a credit card. But since our investigators issued their views, the law in this 
area was clarified by the judgment in Steiner v. National Westminster Bank plc [2022] EWHC 
2519 (KB) (Steiner).2 Steiner considered whether there was a D-C-S agreement in 
circumstances where Business F took payment on a credit card in relation to the purchase of 
timeshare membership from a business called C. The court considered the arrangements 
between the parties and concluded that, as the payment to C was made outside of the credit 
card network, in that instance there wasnt a D-C-S agreement in place.
I said that the circumstances of Mrs Hs case were very similar. Here, the same business 
(Business F) took payment for Mrs Hs purchase of Business D holiday club memberships. 
So, based on the judgment in Steiner, I thought a court would come to a similar conclusion 
and say that there was no D-C-S agreement in place and, in turn, no valid s.75 CCA claim.
In response to the second investigators view, PR sent submissions alleging that there might 
be an unfair debtor-creditor relationship between Mrs H and Tesco arising out of the 
purchases.
This was a claim that has never been raised with Tesco, so it hadnt had the chance to 
consider it. However, I thought it was fair in the circumstances of Mrs Hs case to go on to 
look at that claim and I didnt think Tesco was prejudiced by me doing so.3 I noted that I 
could only consider how the agreements between Mrs H and Business D affected the 
fairness of the debtor-creditor relationship, if there was a valid D-C-S agreement in place. 
And, as Id already explained, I didnt think such an arrangement was in place, nor had 
Mrs H suggested there was an unfair relationship for any other reason.
I explained that under the rules set out above, I must take into account the law, but come to 
my own determination of what is fair and reasonable in any given complaint. Here, I didnt  
think it would be fair to make Tesco responsible for Business Ds alleged failures when the 
law didnt impose such a liability  I couldnt see that Tesco and Business D were connected 
in any way nor was there any other reason to say Tesco should be responsible for Business 
Ds alleged failings.
I follows that I didnt think Tesco needed to answer the claims made.
Tesco responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add.
PR responded on Mrs Hs behalf to say it had received my provisional decision, but it didnt 
2 I saw Counsels opinion prepared in respect of some of PRs complaints on the subject of D-C-S 
agreements. But that opinion predated this judgment, so I didnt think it assisted me 
3 I invited Tesco to let me know in response to the provisional decision if it didnt agree that I should 
consider that part of the complaint, but Tesco agreed with what Id saidprovide anything further for me to consider within the timescales I provided within which to 
respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not been given anything further to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco 
Credit Card.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman