DRN-3344066
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he took from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc under a lease hire 
agreement was not of satisfactory quality and that it has not done enough to put things right.  
What happened
In April 2021 Mr W entered into a three-year hire agreement with Santander for a new plug-
in hybrid car. Under the agreement he was to pay just over £488 a month. 
Soon after Mr W took delivery of the car, it developed a charging fault, which meant that Mr 
W could not charge it at home, where he has solar panels installed. 
The car was booked in for repairs in June 2021. They were completed under warranty and 
Mr W was provided with a courtesy car in the meantime. 
Because he had been unable to charge the car, however, Mr W used more fuel than should 
have been the case. Santander agreed that his additional costs should be reimbursed, and 
Mr W submitted receipts totalling just over £400. Santander paid just over £150 to Mr W (by 
reducing one monthly payment) and said that the dealership had agreed to pay £250, the 
limit payable under the cars warranty. It offered to pass Mr Ws details to the dealership so it 
could make payment. 
Mr W did not think this was fair. He said that his agreement was with Santander and that it 
should make the payment. He did not want his bank details passed to any third parties. 
Our investigator considered what had happened but did not recommend that the complaint 
be upheld. He did not think it unreasonable of Santander to require Mr W to take the 
payment of £250 from the dealership. Mr W did not agree and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A payment of £250 will put Mr W, as far as reasonably possible, in the position he would 
have been in if the contract had been performed. That is, he will have a car which charges 
as it should, he will have been kept mobile while repairs were carried out and will not be out-
of-pocket because of having to use additional fuel. Mr W does not appear to dispute that. He 
says however that Santander should make that payment. 
I am afraid I do not agree. There is no suggestion that the payment wont be made or that 
the party making it will use Mr Ws bank account details for any purpose other than to make 
a transfer. In the circumstances, there seems to me to be no reason to make Santander bear 
the cost of the additional compensation to which Mr W is entitled, any more than I would 
expect it to bear the costs of the repairs carried out under warranty.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman