DRN-3403834
The complaint
Mr M complains that Wise Payments Limited (previously TransferWise Limited) (Wise) 
wont refund money he lost to a scam.
Mr M is being represented by his son in this complaint.
What happened
In 2019, Mr M was the victim of an investment scam. He read an article about 
cryptocurrency and forex trading by a recognised Danish CEO on social media, which 
endorsed a broker called TraderUR. Mr Ms son says that Mr M was likely targeted as he 
was researching for ways to grow his money.
After leaving his contact details on a web form, Mr M was contacted by a representative of 
TraderUR who claimed to be able to help him invest money and make a reasonable profit. 
Mr M was told that any funds transferred would still belong to him and in the worst case he 
could only lose 5% on a deal. He also received an action plan which he thought was 
reasonably sensible. 
Mr M was persuaded to engage the services of TraderUR and opened a trading account with 
it. The representative also asked him to set up a multi-currency electronic money account 
with Wise to fund the deposits. Mr M would send Danish Krone from his bank account in 
Denmark to his Wise account, and it was converted to Euro before being sent to TraderURs 
account in another EU country. 
Mr M says that once transactions started, he would get regular calls from his account 
representative who would ask for more money. Things looked promising and his profits 
exceeded the action plan he was initially given. After a few transactions, Mr M was contacted 
by another representative who persuaded him to download a screen-sharing software to 
help arrange transfers while on the phone to him. Mr Ms submissions also suggests that he 
was able to make a few withdrawals from his trading account.
The following payments were made from Mr Ms Wise account to TraderUR:
Date Payee Amount
18 March 2019 Shine Systems Kft. 400,000 DKK (€53,393.81)
20 March 2019 Shine Systems Kft. 400,000 DKK (€53,405.77)
22 March 2019 Rumolis Grand Kft 500,000 DKK (€66,757.37)
25 March 2019 Shine Systems Kft 500,000 DKK (€66,737.44)
26 March 2019 Rumolis Grand Kft 500,000 DKK (€66,737.44)
28 March 2019 Rumolis Grand Kft 500,000 DKK (€66,717.51)
4 April 2019 Rumolis Grand Kft 450,000 DKK (€60,063.63)
8 April 2019 Rumolis Grand Kft 450,000 DKK (€60,054.67)
Total payments 3,700,000 DKK (€493,867.64)
Wise wrote to Mr M on 9 April 2019 and requested further information about these 
payments. It also said it was unable to process any future transactions unless it received a 
satisfactory response. Mr M replied the same day, but his response didnt address 
everything. 
Wise sent a few email chasers and also contacted Mr M to discuss its request. It had further 
questions after Mr M provided additional documentation. Wise deactivated Mr Ms account 
on 3 May, after it didnt receive a satisfactory response.
During this period, Mr M had been in touch with his account representative at TraderUR. The 
representative persuaded him to open an account with another online money remittance firm 
and Mr M continued sending money to his trading account. The available information 
suggests that Mr M made the first payment to TraderUR through a different firm on 12 April  
three days after Wise got in touch with him to question the payments.
According to Mr Ms submissions, things went quiet when he started losing money on his 
trading positions. He eventually heard back from the initial representative who asked him to 
deposit €60,000 to recover the losses. This request for additional deposit appears to have 
happened around early May, based on the email exchange between Mr M and TraderUR 
which was included in his submissions.
But by this point, Mr M had realised this was a scam. He requested a withdrawal of his 
deposits, less what had he had already received. He also reported the matter to the police 
and his bank. 
Mr M contacted Wise on 15 May and explained that hed been the victim of a scam. He 
asked for its assistance in recovering the funds. Wise agreed to co-operate with any 
institutions investigating the matter, including the police, if contacted. But it refused to 
provide a refund as it didnt agree it had done anything wrong. Mr M complained to Wise and 
when he didnt hear back, the matter was referred to our service.
I issued my provisional decision on 10 March 2022. I said that I didnt plan to uphold this 
complaint and set out the following reasons:
Mr M and his family have gone through a difficult time in the last few years and I 
acknowledge that this complaint is very important to them. I thank them for their 
patience and for taking the time to give us all the details they have. 
Ive first thought about our services territorial remit and what it means for Mr Ms 
complaint. Both the sender (Mr M) and the recipient (beneficiary) are based outside 
the UK, and the payments were conducted outside the UK. I sought clarification from 
Wise in relation to the payment journey involved in such transactions which it kindly 
provided. Wise also said it was satisfied from its own point of view that our service 
can consider Mr Ms complaint. 
Ive reviewed the information Wise has provided in relation to the payment journey. 
At the time of the disputed payments, Wise passported out its services to EEA 
countries under permissions granted to it by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
the UKs financial services regulator. Although the payments were seemingly 
conducted outside the UK, the payment instruction  the request to make a payment 
transfer  was received and actioned in the UK by Wise. Im therefore satisfied that 
Mr Ms complaint falls within our services territorial jurisdiction.
Given the information Ive found during my research on TraderUR, Im satisfied that 
Mr M has likely been the victim of a scam, rather than simply losing money as a result of a high-risk investment. There are warnings published about TraderUR by the 
International Organisations of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) as well as by the 
FCA, albeit several months after Mr M made all the payments he disputes.
Its common ground that Mr M authorised the payments even though he was the 
victim of a sophisticated scam. He was duped into instructing Wise to transfer money 
to the accounts within the fraudsters control. Although he didnt intend the money to 
go to the fraudsters, under the relevant regulations, Mr M is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the matter.
Regulatory framework
Wise is an electronic money institution (EMI) and its FCA permissions are different 
to those of a bank or a building society. EMIs and authorised payment institutions 
(PI) operate differently and in a different regulatory framework. In broad terms, the 
well-established codes of practice for fraud prevention dont apply in the same way to 
EMIs and PIs as they do to banks and building societies. 
Strictly speaking, publications and codes aimed at banks and building societies either 
dont apply or have limited application to EMIs and PIs. Particularly if the transactions 
in question happened several years ago. An example of a code that doesnt apply to 
EMIs and PIs is the Banking Protocol. It is only relevant to in-branch transactions, 
whereas EMIs and PIs tend to offer services online or over the phone. Its also 
important to note that some considerations which have long applied to banks and 
building societies have only come into force more recently for EMIs and PIs. For 
instance, the FCAs Principles for Business (PRIN) and Conduct of Business 
sourcebook (BCOBS) have only applied to EMIs and PIs since August 2019. 
But even before this date, as is the case here since Mr M made the payments in 
March and April 2019, EMIs and PIs still owed a basic duty of care to their 
customers, as well as a duty to mitigate fraud. 
Ive thought carefully about Wises obligations in Mr Ms case.
Should the payments have flagged as unusual or out of character?
I accept that Mr Ms use of Wises services was broadly in line with what it would 
expect  a customer opening and funding an account specifically to make 
international payments. So, on the face of it, the fact that Mr M deposited money into 
his account just a day or two after opening it and then sent that money on 
internationally is unlikely to have stood out as being remarkable, suspicious or 
unusual activity to Wise. 
However, the payment in question was of a substantial amount  equivalent to over 
£50,000. I acknowledge that Wise may well have processed over 70,000 transactions 
over £50,000 in 2019. But Mr M was a new customer and Wise didnt have any 
account history to compare the transaction against. In the circumstances, it is my 
judgement that the initial transaction alone ought to have triggered an alert on Wises 
systems. 
Wise has argued that money deposited from a legitimate bank account implies that 
the bank has done its due diligence and knows its customer, and Wise considers 
such payments more trustworthy. I can understand its logic to some extent. But 
where the customer is new to Wise, in my opinion relying on the deposit being 
received from a legitimate bank account in the customers name doesnt go far enough. After all, as has happened with Mr M, a fraudster can convince an individual 
to open a new account with an EMI (like Wise) to facilitate fraud. And when the initial 
payment that follows is of a substantially large amount, like it was here, I consider it 
ought to stand out as unusual and prompt further enquiries. 
So, I think an opportunity was missed here.
Would intervention have prevented the fraud?
The investigator thought that Wise should have asked questions along the lines 
suggested in the British Standards Institute (BSI) code which came into effect at the 
end of October 2017. It is worth noting that EMIs and PIs werent involved in this 
codes creation. As time has gone on, I consider the code represents good industry 
practice not just for banks but also other types of payment service providers. But I 
dont think the same can be said in relation to EMIs and PIs for payments made in 
March-April 2019, which is just 17-18 months after the BSI code came into effect. 
In other words, I wouldnt have expected Wise to have questioned Mr M to the extent 
suggested in the BSI code. If Mr M had disclosed the circumstances of his 
introduction to the investment of his own volition, I would have expected Wise to 
have been on notice that he was at risk of financial harm from fraud. But having 
weighed up everything, Im not persuaded that Mr M would have been forthcoming 
with this information. 
The scam had a high degree of sophistication and its one that Mr M was clearly very 
taken in by. His son has told us that the fraudster approached Mr M with care, 
reassurances, and lots of guarantees. And Mr Ms submission is that he was 
convinced by the fraudsters eloquence and thought that the action plan was 
sensible. 
When Wise subsequently questioned Mr M about the payments, he got in touch with 
the fraudster and informed them of this. And the fraudster convinced Mr M to not only 
open an account with another firm (and no longer use Wise) but also continue 
sending money to them. Although Mr M did respond to some of Wises questions, 
including the reason for the payments, he didnt say that it was for investment 
trading. So, if Wise had intervened when Mr M authorised the initial payment, I think 
its more likely than not that similar actions would have unfolded. Mr M would have 
reported this to the fraudster, and the fraudster would have convinced him to make 
payments through another firm. 
Im also mindful that Mr Ms son has told us that he had a difficult time convincing 
Mr M this was a scam. So, even if Wise had provided a warning about scams in 
general (which is all I could expect of it in the circumstances), I dont think this would 
have made a difference to whether Mr M would have gone ahead with the payments. 
So, while Ive found that Wise could have done more here, Im persuaded that any 
intervention by Wise would likely have been ineffective.
Was enough done to recover Mr Ms funds?
Wise has told us that it didnt attempt to recover the funds Mr M had stolen from him. 
Wise is expected to assist its customers in recovering misappropriated or misdirected 
funds when put on notice. So, I consider that it ought to have attempted recovery 
when Mr M got in touch to report the fraud. That said, theres no guarantee that the international beneficiary bank would have 
responded to a recovery request. Indeed, our investigator reached out to the 
beneficiary bank in this case to find out if the funds remained in the account at the 
point when Mr M reported the fraud. But he never received a response. 
Also, fraudsters are very much alive to the processes financial businesses take when 
being made aware of fraud. To prevent the funds from being frozen and returned to 
the victim, fraudsters tend to remove the funds from the beneficiary account within a 
short period of being credited. As Mr M didnt report the fraud to Wise until several 
weeks after his last payment through Wise, I find it more likely than not that the funds 
were removed prior to this. 
As such, I dont find that recovery in these circumstances would likely have been 
successful even if Wise had acted like I think it should have.
Complaint handling
In its submissions, Wise said it wanted to offer compensation to Mr M as it had failed 
to send a final response when he complained. During our investigators review, an 
offer of £150 was put forward. But given that complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity, Im unable to comment on any offer of compensation in relation to it. I leave it 
to Mr M to contact Wise directly if he wants to accept its offer. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. 
We havent heard from Wise, so Ive assumed it has nothing further to add.
Mr Ms son has replied. In summary, he says that Ive rejected the complaint based on 
assumptions and this is unfair. He agrees Wise doesnt have the same responsibilities to 
monitor accounts as a bank does. But where opportunities are missed, Wise must be held 
liable to some extent. He says that all regulations are applicable and presumes that 17-18 
months is more than enough time for the BSI code to be implemented by every financial 
institution in the UK. Hes also quoted a response from the Electronic Money Association 
(EMA), which Wise is a member of, to the APP Scams Steering Groups 2018 Consultation 
Paper on the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code; specifically its response to 
customer vulnerability. He says the response makes it clear that Wise leaves it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to decide vulnerability and therefore retrospectively 
reimburse customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr Ms son for his comments which Ive read and considered in their entirety. 
I recognise that he feels strongly about the matter and that hes disappointed with my 
decision. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ms case again taking into account further comments that his son has put 
forward. My outcome, as set out in my provisional decision, remains unchanged. Ive 
answered the key further points below. 
Causation is a critical determinative factor in every fraud case. It isnt enough that a payment 
service provider failed to act unfairly or unreasonably; its acts or omissions must be the immediate and effective cause of losses that were reasonably foreseeable at the time of the 
breach. So while Ive made a finding that Wise missed an opportunity to intervene and 
provide a warning to Mr M, this doesnt mean it automatically becomes responsible for his 
loss. I would also need to be satisfied that the breach would have made a difference to 
Mr Ms decision-making. 
I cant know for certain what would have happened if Wise had questioned Mr M about the 
initial payment before executing it. In such situations, I reach my conclusions not based on 
mere possibilities but rather on what I find most probable to have happened in the 
circumstances. In other words, I make my decision based on the balance of probabilities  
so what I consider most likely to have happened considering the evidence and wider 
circumstances of the case. This includes taking into consideration actions that were taken. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, Mr M contacted the fraudster when Wise 
subsequently questioned the payments that he sent using its services. Within days he was 
using the services of another e-money provider to continue sending money to his trading 
account. Ive also noted that Mr Ms son has said he had a difficult time convincing his father 
that this was a scam.
Based on these actions, it remains the case I consider it more likely than not that any contact 
or further discussion with Wise at the time Mr M authorised the payments would not have 
stopped him from going ahead. Therefore, any failure on Wises part in relation to not 
spotting the disputed payments as unusual or out of character is not the dominant, effective 
cause of Mr Ms loss.
I understand the point Mr Ms son is making about the EMAs response to the APP Scams 
Steering Group. But its worth noting that this response was in the context of a Consultation 
Paper on the CRM code. This code: didnt come into force until 28 May 2019 (or the date the 
respondent firm signed up to it if later); is voluntary; isnt retrospective; only applies to 
authorised push payments between two accounts held in the UK and not by the same 
person. The CRM code, therefore, doesnt apply to Mr Ms case. 
In any event, as Ive found that an intervention is unlikely to have made a difference here, 
I dont consider it necessary to comment further on the regulatory framework and the 
obligations of EMIs and PIs in fraud prevention.
In summary, I know that Mr M and his son will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least 
because the matter has been ongoing for some time and our investigator previously upheld 
the complaint. I acknowledge that Mr M has experienced personal difficulties since losing a 
very large amount of money to a cruel scam. But having considered the matter carefully, 
I dont think that Wise could have prevented the losses he suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M (or his 
representative) to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman