DRN-3502074
The complaint
Mr W complains that the car supplied to him through a hire purchase agreement with Mallard 
Leasing Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He also complains that Mallard Leasing 
Limited irresponsibly granted him the agreement which he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2021, Mr W acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Mallard Leasing. Mr W paid a deposit of £800 and was required to make 47 monthly 
repayments of £140 and a final payment of £340. The total repayable under the agreement 
was £7,700.
Mr W says that soon after purchase, he noticed the car making a knocking noise. This was 
investigated and a report produced saying it was likely there was an issue with one of the 
front suspension strut mountings. A repair was carried out, but Mr W says this didnt resolve 
the issue. Mr W asked to hand back the car and it was collected on 20 September 2021, but 
Mr W was left with a balance to pay.  
Mr W also says that Mallard Leasing didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says 
if it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Mallard Leasing didnt agree. It 
said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit report check and 
assessing three months of Mr Ws bank statements. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint about the car not being of satisfactory 
quality, but he did uphold the complaint about irresponsible lending. He thought Mallard 
Leasing ought to have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr W.
Mallard Leasing agreed with our investigators view about the car being of satisfactory 
quality. It didnt agree that the agreement was provided irresponsibly and said it had followed 
the relevant guidelines in carrying out its affordability checks. It said Mr Ws application and 
bank statements were reviewed by experienced staff. It said the view that a £98 surplus 
wasnt adequate was just an opinion and said Mr Ws Individual Voluntary Arrangement 
(IVA) company thought the payments were affordable. It said Mr Ws bank statements didnt 
show any bounced payments and that he didnt raise any affordability concerns until after his 
satisfactory quality complaint wasnt upheld. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two different parts to this complaint. The first issue is about whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality and the second about whether the agreement was responsibly lent. I 
have addressed each part separately. 
 
Satisfactory quality
Under the regulations  and of particular relevance is that the Consumer Rights Act 2015  
Mallard Leasing can be held liable if the car supplied under the hire purchase agreement 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. When assessing satisfactory quality 
factors such as the age and mileage can be taken into account. In this case the car was over 
ten years old and had been driven almost 73,000 miles at the time of acquisition.
Mr W acquired the car on 23 April 2021. He reported a noise and a report was carried out 21 
May 2021. The report confirmed an intermittent noise and said it was likely this was due to 
worn suspension. A repair was carried out by a third-party garage, but Mr W says this didnt 
resolve the issue. On balance, given the consistency of Mr Ws testimony, and the notes 
from a discussion between Mallard Leasing and the repairing garage from 4 June saying the 
noise was still present, I find it reasonable to accept that the repair didnt fully resolve the 
issue of the noise.
However, for me to uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint, I would need to be able to say that 
this issue meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Given the age 
and mileage of the car at acquisition it is reasonable to accept that it would have suffered 
some wear and tear. The report carried out on 21 May said the car was in average general 
condition and that the issue identified was likely due to worn suspension which given the age 
and mileage of the car I dont think meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. I accept that 
the repair didnt resolve the issue but based on the findings of the May report and noting that 
the car passed an MOT in April 2021 at the time it was supplied, I think it  more likely than 
not that the issue with Mr Ws car was due to wear and tear. Further investigation isnt now 
possible as the car was returned and sold and, based on the evidence I have seen, I do not 
find I have enough to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I note the comments Mr W has made about being told not to contact the dealer and not 
being able to use his warranty but these are separate and new issues and I have nothing to 
show that Mr W was prevented from making a claim. 
Overall, in this case I do not find I can say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
acquisition, so I do not uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint. 
Affordability
Mallard Leasing will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, I think Mallard Leasing gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr W about his ability to repay. I say this because it 
completed a credit check, gathered data from external third parties and had sight of three 
months of bank statements which detailed Mr Ws income and regular commitments. 
However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically 
mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and 
information showed. 
The credit check Mallard Leasing completed showed two defaults and it was also aware that 
Mr W was in an IVA. I think this ought to have indicated that Mr W had previously 
experienced financial difficulties and was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would 
have been proportionate for Mallard Leasing to have got a more thorough understanding of 
Mr Ws financial circumstances before lending.Mallard Leasing says it calculated Mr Ws expenditure using statistical data which it says 
gives average household expenditure figures specific to Mr Ws circumstances and it also 
gathered information about rental costs. The regulator has said firms can estimate 
expenditure unless it knows or there are indicators to suggest an estimate is unlikely to be 
accurate. As Mr W provided copies of his bank statements and noting the information 
Mallard Leasing was aware of regarding Mr Ws previous credit history, I think it reasonable 
that the information in his bank statements was used to verify his income and expenditure.
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. The 
statements show that Mr Ws income was from benefits of around £215 a week, giving an 
equivalent monthly income of around £930 although I note due to the timing of payments in 
some months it would be less than this and other months more. 
Mr Ws committed expenditure was around £465 a month for supermarket or similar 
spending which Mr W has explained included his food but also paying his rent and energy 
bills through prepay cards. He paid around £140 for other costs such as insurance, other 
utilities and household costs and was paying £80 a month towards his IVA. This left Mr W 
with a net monthly income of around £245. The agreement required monthly payments of 
£140 leaving Mr W with around £105 a month. This amount doesnt take into account Mr Ws 
costs of fuel or any increases in his insurance costs and factoring these costs in would 
further reduce his already limited disposable income. I also note the final payment of £340. 
Therefore, on balance, while I note the comments Mallard Leasing has made about Mr Ws 
disposable income, noting the term of the agreement and the limited funds available to Mr W 
I do not think it should have considered this agreement sustainably affordable.  
Putting things right
As I dont think Mallard Leasing ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore 
refund all the payments Mr W has made, including any deposit. However, Mr W did have use 
of the car for around five months, so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im not 
persuaded that monthly repayments of £140 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage 
would be. This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Mr Ws likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr W should pay is £73 for 
each month he had use of the car. This means Mallard Leasing can only ask him to repay a 
total of £365. Anything Mr W has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ws complaint Mallard Leasing should do the following:
End the agreement.
Refund all the payments Mr W has made, less £365 for fair usage. 
oIf Mr W has paid more than the fair usage figure, Mallard Leasing should 
refund any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mr W has paid less than the fair usage figure, Mallard Leasing should 
arrange an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding 
balance. 
Once Mallard Leasing has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding the agreement.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mallard Leasing to take off tax from this interest. Mallard 
Leasing must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr W asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Mallard Leasing Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman