DRN-3800848
The complaint
Mr K complains about service received from Cover Direct Ltd trading as Cover Direct when 
taking out an Over 50s policy.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr K took out an Over 50s policy through Cover Direct for with what he thought 
was a level of cover of £20,000.
In August 2022 Mr K found out the level of cover was actually less than £10,000 so 
complained to Cover Direct. 
Cover Direct didnt uphold the complaint saying it was a non-advised online sale and they 
were happy the level of cover had been made clear in the documents provided. 
Mr K remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They said that Cover Direct didnt give any advice 
during the sale and they also thought the quotation and policy schedule clearly showed the 
level of cover. 
Mr K disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K spoke with Cover Direct about a policy and was provided with an email containing a 
link allowing him to make an application online. There isnt a copy of this telephone call so I 
cant say exactly what was said but Ive seen no evidence any advice was given.
Using the link provided Mr K generated two quotations for cover and proceeded to apply for 
the second product selected. As part of the application process Mr K confirmed he was 
happy with the level of cover which was £9,989. So Im satisfied the application process 
made clear the level of cover Mr K was applying for.
The maximum level of cover for the product Mr K selected is £10,000. So whilst Mr K says 
he thought he had applied for £20,000 worth of cover this wasnt possible for the product 
selected.  
Ive also seen a copy of the policy schedule the product provider say they gave to Mr K 
which shows £9,989 as the level of cover. 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Cover Direct gave Mr K any advice during the sales 
process. Im also satisfied the level of cover was made clear and that Mr K agreed to this as 
part of the application process. And this was confirmed in a policy schedule from the product 
provider.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Mr K was treated fairly 
and reasonably so I wont be asking Cover Direct to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman