DRN-3777325
The complaint
Mr M complains about Monzo Bank Ltds decision to close his account and return the money 
left in it to the original source.
What happened
Mr M held an account with Monzo. In June 2021, Monzo received fraud reports from other 
banks to inform them that Mr M had been the recipient of fraudulent funds. Monzo carried 
out an investigation and decided to end their relationship with Mr M. Mr M said Monzo closed 
his account on the same day his bills were due which caused him to miss payments and 
receive late payment charges. Monzo returned some money back to the original senders, 
and some money back to Mr M directly. Mr M wanted all of the money left in his account to 
be returned to him.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt think Monzo had done anything wrong. He 
explained that Mr Ms statement supports the version of events linked to the fraudulent 
payments and was satisfied Monzo has returned the money appropriately to the victims 
under Claytons law. Overall, our investigator thought Monzo had acted appropriately in the 
circumstances.
Mr M disagreed. He said there was money in the account before the fraudulent transactions 
happened  so he thought the full balance should have been returned to him.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Monzo were acting in line with 
these obligations when reviewing, blocking, and subsequently closing Mr Ms account. 
Monzo are required to regularly review the relationships they hold with their customers and 
its often appropriate for certain transactions to be reviewed. In Mr Ms case, money paid into 
his account was raised as suspicious, so Im pleased to see Monzo took the action to block 
any further activity on the account while they investigated things. Monzo received 
information from other banks which they have shared with our service in confidence. Im 
satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that Monzo were entitled to close Mr Ms account 
and did so by complying with the terms and conditions of the account. Therefore, I cant 
reasonably say Monzo did anything wrong when deciding to close Mr Ms account. I 
recognise Mr M says this caused financial issues for him with bills being due on the same 
day Monzo decided to close the account, but I can only uphold this part of the complaint if 
Monzo did something wrong  and I cant reasonably say they did.
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that Monzo havent given him access to money in his 
account and sent it back to another account. Mr M says that the money belongs to him and 
he wants it back. For me to uphold this part of the complaint, I have to conclude Monzo has 
done something wrong when they returned the money left in Mr Ms account back to source. 
As the investigator has already explained to Mr M, Monzo were following the Claytons Rule 
commonly known as the first in first out rule. This says that each withdrawal is presumed to 
be a return of all or part of the oldest deposit. The result is that the oldest deposit is 
withdrawn first, or the oldest debt is paid first.
Mr M says he applied for a loan and thought the money which entered his account, and what 
he then moved onwards, was all part of satisfying his credit worthiness. Nonetheless, I am 
satisfied Mr M received, and moved on, fraudulent funds in his account. It therefore follows 
that when Mr M transferred money out of his account, that money would have been 
deducted from the balance which was already in his account  and therefore, his own 
money. So, Monzo had a duty to return the money to the victims when they were informed 
about the fraud  which means Mr M has been left without some of the money which may 
have rightfully belonged to him.
I understand that Mr M is upset by Monzos actions  and it could well be the case that he 
has also been a victim of fraud. I say that because hes explained he thought he was 
applying for a loan and now realises he should have reported these actions. However, based 
on everything Ive seen, I cant reasonably hold Monzo responsible for the actions of a 
fraudster  and I cant fairly say they have done anything wrong.
In summary, I realise Mr M will be disappointed by my decision. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont believe Monzo acted unreasonably or treated Mr M unfairly in taking the 
actions they did.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman