DRN-2016314
The complaint
Mrs E has complained about Pinnacle Insurance Plc. She isnt happy that it turned down a 
claim under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs E took out a pet insurance policy and looked to make a claim in May 2019 for a blood 
test, urine test and lungworm test for her dog. Pinnacle turned down the claim. This was 
because it considered these tests were pre-operative in nature, and therefore excluded 
under the policy.
Mrs E didnt agree, so she asked this service to look into things for her. And our investigator 
upheld the complaint. She thought that as the vet had confirmed why the tests were required 
and as the vet said these were not pre-operative in nature, Pinnacle should pay the claim. 
Pinnacle responded to say it would pay the claim for the urine test and the lungworm test. 
But it still didnt agree to pay the claim for the blood test, as it maintained this was a pre-
operative test. As the blood test remained in dispute, the matter has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Pinnacle has already agreed to pay the claim for the urine test and the lungworm test, I 
am left to consider whether Pinnacle has fairly declined the claim for the blood test. Given 
everything that Ive seen, I dont think Pinnacle has acted fairly. Ill explain why.
I appreciate why Pinnacle considers the blood test to be pre-operative in nature. As per the 
vet notes, immediately following review of the tests I see the vet suggested it was in order to 
book the required appointment under general anaesthetic.
However, the vets subsequent letter of explanation confirmed she tested the dogs kidney 
function and checked him for lungworm, as these couldve been reasons for his pain and 
change in behaviour. She also confirmed all the tests were to check the dogs ability to cope 
with long term medication.
As Pinnacle has agreed to cover the urine test, it seems to accept this test was not pre-
operative in nature. I think it agrees this was to test the dogs kidney function. However, to 
check for kidney disease in dogs, often a urine test and a blood test is conducted. 
So, taking into account the vets letter  and the fact that kidney function tests can be a 
combination of a urine and a blood test  I dont think the blood test was pre-operative in 
nature in this instance. 
Given the dogs symptoms and what the treating vet, who saw the dog and its presenting 
symptoms at the time, has said, Im satisfied that the blood test was an attempt to investigate the dogs kidney function due to the dogs existing symptoms. Therefore, I think 
the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for 
Pinnacle to pay the claim for the blood test alongside the urine and lungworm test.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. As it has already agreed 
to settle the claim for the urine test and the lungworm test, I simply require Pinnacle 
Insurance Plc to settle the claim for the blood test. If Mrs E has already paid for the tests, 
Pinnacle should add 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman