DRN-2559073
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to provide him with 
sufficient information when he used some AVC pension savings to purchase an annuity in 
September 2008. And he has also complained that more recently Prudential failed to update 
his address on its systems and sent the outcome of a review of the annuity sale to an 
incorrect address.
What happened
Mr C held pension savings with Prudential  these had been accrued as a result of 
Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVC) Mr C had made alongside an occupational 
pension scheme. In 2008 Mr C was made redundant and retired from his occupation. And as 
a result of the rules of the AVC scheme he was required to take benefits from those pension 
savings at the same time, and in the form of an annuity.
Mr C requested a number of different quotations from Prudential in June 2008, and he 
requested further quotations the following month. He was sent those quotations by post 
along with information about the different ways his benefits could be structured. Mr C 
completed and returned an application to Prudential for his pension benefits in September.
In October 2020 Prudential wrote to Mr C to let him know that it was conducting a review of 
historical annuity purchases that had been made without the assistance of a financial 
advisor. It let Mr C know that his annuity purchase was included in the review and asked him 
for some further information about his health and circumstances in 2008. Shortly afterwards 
Mr C provided Prudential with an updated address for writing to him. And around the same 
time Mr C returned the forms containing the information that Prudential needed to complete 
its review of his annuity purchase.
Prudential provided the outcome of its review to Mr C at the end of October. It sent that letter 
to Mr Cs previous address. Although the letter was ultimately sent on to Mr C, its arrival was 
delayed. Prudentials letter explained that its review had concluded that Mr C had been given 
sufficient information about his options before the annuity had been sold. So it didnt think 
any compensation needed to be paid in relation to the sale of the annuity.
Mr C made his complaint to Prudential. Prudential didnt conclude that the outcome it had 
reached in its review of the sale of Mr Cs annuity had been incorrect. But it apologised for 
sending the letter to the wrong address and paid him £50 for the trouble and upset hed been 
caused. Mr C didnt accept that outcome so brought his complaint to this Service.
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Cs complaint. He also found that the information 
Mr C had been given before he was sold the annuity had been sufficient. And he thought 
that the compensation Prudential had paid to Mr C as an apology for sending the review 
outcome letter to the wrong address was reasonable. So he didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr C and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I will deal first with the letter that was sent to Mr C giving him the outcome of the review. It is 
clear that letter was sent to Mr Cs previous address. But it is equally clear that Mr C 
received it relatively soon after it had been sent. He complained to Prudential about the 
outcome around two weeks later. Prudential has explained why the letter was mis-
addressed. It says that it used a separate system to handle the review activities, and it had 
failed to update Mr Cs address on there. It was only updated on its main systems. That 
seems entirely plausible to me and I have no concerns that Prudential might have been 
trying to hide the review outcome as Mr C suggests. I think that the compensation that 
Prudential paid to Mr C of £50 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I have looked carefully at the information Mr C was sent at the time he was considering the 
purchase of the annuity. I have noted that Mr C says he doesnt recall receiving the 
information that Prudential says was sent. But I can see that it was sent to his correct 
address at that time, and that he completed and returned the application form that was 
included in the information. So, on balance, Im satisfied that the information was most likely 
sent to, and received by, Mr C.
Mr Cs complaint is that he had been diagnosed with some health conditions the year before. 
He says that those resulted in him being absent from work for around seven months. So 
I think it is reasonable to conclude that he would have been well aware of the severity of the 
issues with his health. When taking an annuity, it is sometimes possible to receive a better 
annuity rate when a consumer has underlying health problems. That reflects an expectation 
that on average people with underlying health conditions might not live as long as healthier 
individuals. And that possibility is what led to Prudentials review  it, and the regulator, was 
concerned that insufficient information might have been given to consumers about the 
enhanced annuities when they were considering the purchase of an annuity.
It might have been possible for Mr C to receive an enhanced annuity from Prudential. Or he 
could have transferred his pension savings to another provider (known as taking an Open 
Market Option or OMO) and purchased an enhanced annuity from there. But the 
availability, and amount, of any enhanced annuity couldnt be guaranteed. Mr C would need to provide medical information to the provider who could then assess what annuity payment 
might be appropriate.
The letter that Prudential sent to Mr C accompanying the quotations made him aware that he 
was able to take advantage of an OMO and transfer his pension savings to another provider. 
But it pointed out that Mr C might want to seek guidance from a financial advisor before he 
took that option. And it reminded Mr C that his annuity payments from Prudential would be 
guaranteed by the government should the company face problems making the payments in 
the future. But that guarantee would be lost if the pension savings were transferred to 
another provider.
The letter also explained to Mr C that he might benefit from an enhanced annuity from 
Prudential if he had a serious medical condition that might shorten his life expectancy. But it 
went on to say this option was only available for pension funds in excess of £20,000. At the 
time Mr Cs pension savings with Prudential were valued at around £13,000. So it might be 
that this option was unavailable to Mr C from Prudential. But I think it would have at least 
drawn his attention to the availability of enhanced annuities.
So I think that the information Prudential sent to Mr C told him two things. It made him aware 
that in some circumstances an enhanced annuity could be paid if he suffered from a serious 
health condition. And it made him aware that he would be able to transfer his pension 
savings to another provider. 
Prudential wasnt able to tell Mr C whether or not other providers might have been able to 
offer him an enhanced annuity  that would have been something he would need to research 
for himself. And I appreciate that Mr C says he was put off that option given Prudentials 
suggestion that he might need to pay for financial advice. But I cant conclude that it was 
unreasonable for Prudential to point that out to Mr C. It might have been sensible for him to 
take financial advice  particularly since hed be giving up the government backed 
guarantee. And if he did take advice its likely that he would have needed to pay the advisor.
So, to summarise, I think the information that Prudential provided to Mr C at the time he 
purchased the annuity was sufficient. I think he was made aware both of the existence of 
enhanced annuities, and that he could transfer his pension savings to another provider. It 
follows that I dont think the complaint should be upheld, or that Prudential needs to pay 
Mr C any further compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman