DRN-2866572
The complaint
Mr L complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr L was provided with two loans by MoneyBoat. One in November 2019 for £300 and a 
second in December 2019 for £850. Mr L says that adequate affordability checks werent 
carried out before the loans were provided and that he had several other payday loans at the 
time.
MoneyBoat says that before the loans were provided affordability and credit checks were 
carried out. It says that these suggested the loans were affordable. Therefore, it didnt 
uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L didnt accept MoneyBoats final response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ls complaint. He said that the information gathered by 
MoneyBoat through its credit check before loan 1 showed that Mr L was experiencing 
problems managing his money. He thought this raised concerns that Mr L wouldnt be able 
to sustainably repay this and any subsequent loans.
MoneyBoat didnt accept our adjudicators view. It said that its checks were proportionate 
given there were only two loans and the nature of the product it provided. It said it wasnt 
required to review every line of the credit check.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Before the first loan was provided MoneyBoat gathered information about Mr Ls income and 
expenses and carried out a credit check. I find these checks were reasonable had they not 
raised any concerns about Mr Ls financial situation and ability to sustainably afford his 
repayments. In this case, the credit check carried out in November 2019 showed that Mr L 
had two other short term loans outstanding at the time as well as several other unsecured 
loans outstanding. I can see that MoneyBoat increased Mr Ls expenses by £364 however 
having looked through the regular payment amounts recorded in the credit results, this 
increase wasnt enough. Had the full amount of the regular payments been included in 
Mr Ls assessment I think that MoneyBoat would have realised the loan wasnt affordable for 
Mr L.
Mr L took out a second loan with MoneyBoat before the first was repaid. The second loan 
was for a much higher amount and having looked through Mr Ls credit results I can see that 
his financial situation hadnt improved. The December 2019 credit check shows three 
defaulted accounts in the previous 12 months compared to the November check that only 
recorded one. As his situation hadnt significantly improved I do not find that MoneyBoat 
should have considered this loan sustainably affordable.
Overall, while I note the comments made by MoneyBoat about the extent of the checks, I 
find that as the information gathered through its credit check showed Mr L was struggling to 
manage his money and that the repayments on the loans didnt appear sustainably 
affordable, the loans shouldnt have been provided.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr L.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For example, having been declined this lending Mr L may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr L would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As I am upholding this complaint in regard to loans 1 and 2, MoneyBoat should buy back the 
loans if these have been sold or, if it cannot or will not do this then it should liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Refund the interest, fees and charges Mr L paid on all upheld loans without an 
outstanding balance along with 8% simple interest* from the date of payment to the 
date the complaint is settled.
B) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr L as though they were repayments of 
the principal amount. If this results in Mr L having made overpayments then these 
should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. If 
there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A should be 
used to repay any balance remaining. If this results in a surplus then the surplus 
should be paid to Mr L. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr L. 
C) MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in 
relation to loans 1 and 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat should 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Evergreen Finance London Limited trading 
as MoneyBoat.co.uk should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman