DRN-1199609
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a Nationwide mortgage through an intermediary in 2005 but didnt 
buy PPI then. They bought a policy a few years later in 2009.
It gave a £350 monthly benefit for up to 12 months for each successful unemployment claim 
Mr H made. The policy was free for the first three months and, after that, initially cost Mr and 
Mrs H just under £15 a month.
Mr and Mrs H say they werent told the PPI was optional. And they say it was surplus to their 
requirements because they both had good sick pay and some savings.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Hs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs H 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs H they had a choice about PPI and get 
their agreement to it. Mr and Mrs H bought the policy a few years after they took out their 
mortgage and Nationwide has told us it didnt lend them any more money at the time of the 
PPI sale. So I think it wouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs H that the PPI was separate from 
their mortgage and not something they had to have. 
From information Nationwide has given us, it seems the sale of the PPI took place at a 
branch meeting. I dont know what was discussed or how Nationwide presented the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs H. But after the meeting, they were given a Customer Information Document 
which was basically a PPI quotation and illustration. It gives Mr Hs personal details and 
includes a level of PPI cover (which was unemployment only  and not accident and 
sickness as well), a monthly benefit amount, the annual premium and the amount of monthly 
instalments after the first three free months. This document isnt signed by Mr and Mrs H but 
I think its likely its contents reflect discussions they had with Nationwide in their meeting
All of this information taken together makes me think its likely Nationwide made it clear to Mr 
and Mrs H they had a choice about PPI and that it was separate to their mortgage. And 
I think Mr and Mrs H agreed to the PPI knowing this. And thats why Im not upholding their 
complaint on this point.Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint but I dont think there are. From the information Ive got, Nationwide didnt 
recommend the PPI to them. So it didnt need to make sure it was right for them in their 
circumstances  this was a decision Mr and Mrs H needed to make for themselves. But 
Nationwide did need to give them enough clear information about the PPI for them to be able 
to make their decision in an informed way. Its possible Nationwide didnt make some things 
as clear as it shouldve. But I dont think clearer information wouldve stopped Mr and Mrs H 
from going ahead with the PPI. I say this because, from what they say of their circumstances 
at the time and from the policy details we have:
Mr H was eligible for the PPI.
Mr H was employed at the time they bought the PPI. So I dont think clearer 
information about the things it wouldnt have covered  like unusual employment 
arrangements  wouldve stopped them from buying it, since they didnt affect Mr H.
I think the PPI gave Mr and Mrs H useful protection. Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was a 
significant financial commitment secured on their home, which was at risk if they fell 
behind with their mortgage repayments. Mr and Mrs H say they had good sick pay  
but  the policy didnt give Mr H cover for accident and sickness. It would, though, 
have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr H had lost his job. And this wouldve meant 
Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have needed to use their savings  which they mightve 
needed for other things  to pay their mortgage if things got difficult.
I dont know what Nationwide told Mr and Mrs H about the cost of the cover in their 
meeting. But their PPI quotation did give an indication of the cost, so I think Mr and 
Mrs H wouldve known broadly how much they were paying for it. And they couldve 
cancelled it at any time without penalty.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of anything 
Nationwide did wrong. So I dont think Nationwide needs to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, I don't uphold Mr and Mrs H's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman