DRN-4195847
The complaint
Mr G complains that Monzo bank Ltd closed blocked and closed his bank account. He is 
also unhappy that Monzo have not sent him copies of his account statements and wants 
compensation.
What happened
Mr G had an account with Monzo. 
In July 2022, Monzo reviewed Mr Gs account. Whilst it completed its review, Monzo blocked 
the account, which meant Mr G was unable to access any funds within it. At the time Mr Gs 
balance was just over £2,000.  Following its review, Monzo decided to close Mr Gs account 
and wrote to him giving him 62 days notice to make alternative banking arrangements. 
However, Monzo subsequently decided to close Mr Gs account sooner. Monzo closed the 
account on 10 August 2022 and released Mr Gs balance back to him.
Mr G complained to Monzo and asked for an explanation for why it had blocked and closed 
his account. He also asked Monzo to send him copies of his bank statements, which he 
needed to show his employer. In response, Monzo said it wasnt obliged to provide Mr G 
with an explanation about why it had reviewed and closed his account. And said it had acted 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Monzo also said it was happy to provide Mr G his bank statements. But explained to him that 
in order to comply with its own security processes and General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR), it needed Mr G to verify his identity and address so that it could send him his bank 
statements. Mr G refused. He said Monzo was already in possession of the information it 
had requested and as he was no longer a customer, because the bank had closed his 
account, Monzo had no right to ask him to provide the information.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. They didnt think Monzo had done 
anything wrong when it had closed Mr Gs account and explained that the bank didnt have 
to provide an explanation for why it no longer wanted him as a customer. The investigator 
also said that Monzo hadnt done anything wrong by not sending Mr Gs his account 
statements. Mr G disagreed. He said he went without his wages due to not having his 
statements to show his employer that his salary hadnt credited his account. And that Monzo 
had treated him unfairly closing his account. So, he wants compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Monzo has provided is information that we considered 
should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of detail with 
Mr G, but Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
Monzo has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts 
to customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is 
opened. To comply with its obligations Monzo may need to review an account and/or restrict 
its customers access.
Ive looked at the conversations Mr G had with Monzo via its in app chat whilst his account 
was blocked. Having done so Ive no doubt that not having a functioning bank account made 
things quite difficult for him. And I can see from the exchanges that Mr G asked Monzo to 
explain why it had blocked his account on more than one occasion but wasnt given much 
information. So, I can understand why he found this experience with Monzo frustrating. But 
as Ive explained, banks have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Monzo was complying with its obligations 
when it blocked Mr Gs account. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr G inconvenience, I cant 
say Monzo treated him unfairly when it blocked his account. 
Mr G wants Monzo to explain the reason it blocked his account. But Monzo doesnt disclose 
to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. Its under no obligation to tell Mr G 
the reasons behind the account review, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its 
done anything wrong by not giving Mr G this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for 
me to require it do so.
Mr Gs account remained blocked until it was closed. But I dont consider that it would be 
right for me to conclude it shouldnt have taken in excess of any particular or specific 
timeframe. Because Monzo was entitled  as a matter of principle  to do what it did in order 
to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, it wouldnt be appropriate to make an 
award for compensation for that, since I dont believe that Monzo acted inappropriately in 
taking the actions that it did.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Gs account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if Mr G decided to stop banking with Monzo, he wouldnt 
have to explain why. Monzo have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Gs 
account. The terms explain that the bank can close the account immediately and by 
providing two months notice. In this case Monzo subsequently decided to close Mr Gs 
account without notice. Having looked at the evidence that has been made available to me, 
in my view that was reasonable. So, it was entitled to close the account as it has already 
done. And Im satisfied that it did so in line with the account terms and relevant regulations. 
Monzo released Mr Gs balance back when it closed his account. So, Im not persuaded 
Monzo treated Mr G unfairly when they closed his account.
Finally, Mr G asked Monzo to send him copies of his account statements. Hes explained 
that he needed the statements to show his employer he hadnt received his salary into his account. Ive looked at the exchanges between Mr G and Monzo regarding this issue, and it 
seems Monzo was willing to provide Mr G his statements. But in order to do so Mr G had to 
complete Monzos security verification process, so that it could comply with GDPR, which I 
dont find unreasonable. 
I can see that Monzo has clearly explained this to Mr G on more than one occasion. And told 
him that this process is its standard procedure. So, Im satisfied that Mr G understands what 
he needs to do in order to satisfy Monzos request. Im also satisfied that Monzo has these 
processes in place in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations, which includes 
GDPR when providing accounts to customers. This is an ongoing obligation, regardless of 
whether Mr G is still a customer of the bank. I acknowledge that Mr G has said that he 
doesnt trust Monzo with his information, which is one of reasons he was unwilling to comply 
with Monzos requests, but I havent seen any evidence that the bank has misused his 
information or not kept it secure. So, I cant say Monzo have done anything wrong by asking 
Mr G to verify his identification and address in order to complete this process. Its now up to 
Mr G to provide the information necessary in order to be sent his account statements. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr G feels about whats happened. I dont doubt it was 
a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise Mr G will be disappointed by my decision. But 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Monzo have acted unreasonably and 
treated Mr G unfairly in taking the actions that it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman