DRN-4249145
The complaint
Mr P complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) increased his premium and altered 
the terms and conditions of his pet insurance policy without his authorisation. 
What happened
Mr P says his policy excess increased from a flat £60 fee to 25% of the claim value. He says 
Pinnacle didnt notify him of this change. When he made a claim in 2023, he was charged 
£732.96 because of the increased excess contribution. Mr P says he wasnt told about this 
or the increase in premium. He says there may be a problem with the portal Pinnacle uses, 
which is why he wasnt aware of the changes. 
In its final complaint response Pinnacle says the terms of its policy were applied correctly. 
This includes the 25% excess contribution. It says Mr P was sent an email on 11 April 2023 
advising him to check his renewal information and make contact if there was a problem. 
In its submissions to our service Pinnacle says it wrote to Mr P in September 2021. It 
explained the policy excess should show as a percentage contribution on his certificate of 
insurance. However, due to an error on its part, it wasnt showing correctly. Pinnacle said 
this change would be applied from the date of the next renewal. It says Mr P didnt contact it 
to query his policy terms at any renewal. He only made contact when he was asked to pay 
£732.96 in April 2023.
Mr P thought this was unfair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He says Pinnacle had shown it wrote to him in 2021 about the change 
in the policy excess fee. He says the records also show Mr P registered with Pinnacles 
online customer portal in April 2022. This was after the renewal documents had been added 
for the 2022/2023 policy year. Our investigator thought Pinnacle had done enough to provide 
Mr P with the relevant information.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mr Ps policy incepted in May 2020 to run for a period of 12 months. When a policy term is 
nearing its end, its expected that the insurer will send its customer renewal documents. Mr 
Ps complaint is that Pinnacle didnt provide any documents to show an increase in his 
premium. Or to show that his policy excess was changing from a flat fee to 25% of the claim 
value (with a minimum payment of £60). 
Pinnacle refers to a letter it sent to Mr P in September 2021. It explained its error in not 
applying the 25% policy excess. And said this wouldnt form part of the policy until the next 
renewal in 2022.
I acknowledge Mr Ps comments that he didnt receive this letter. But Ive seen Pinnacles 
system records that shows the letter was printed. I dont dispute what Mr P says. But Im 
satisfied from the information Pinnacle has provided that this letter was sent to him. It may 
be that this was lost in transit. But I cant reasonably hold Pinnacle responsible for the 
carriage of mail. 
Ive also looked at the system records Pinnacle provided that shows Mr P registered with its 
customer portal at the end of April 2022. The records show his renewal for the policy year 
2022/2023 had been added to the portal a couple of weeks prior to this. Ive seen the 
renewal information that was uploaded. This confirms the policy excess is now 25% of the 
claim value, with a minimum charge of £60. The covering letter asks Mr P to check the 
information carefully and to make contact if anything looked incorrect. 
I can see that Mr Ps premium did increase over the time he had his policy. The 2021/2022 
premium was set at £18.87 per month, this increased to £21.70 for the 2022/2023 policy 
year. I acknowledge Mr Ps argument that he wasnt made aware of the increase. But this 
was clearly communicated in the renewal information uploaded to his portal. Im satisfied 
that Mr P was able to access the portal as the records show hed registered shortly before 
his policy renewed in 2022.
I acknowledge Mr Ps concern that he wasnt aware of the change to the policy excess until 
he was asked to pay £732.96 in April 2023. I can understand that this must have been 
upsetting. But Mr P says he hadnt received his renewal documents for 2022/2023. When he 
was made aware he owed this amount, this was almost a year after his policy had renewed. 
Im satisfied this information was made available to Mr P. Id also expect a reasonable 
person to make enquiries at an earlier juncture to understand why this information hadnt 
been provided. 
Mr P says there was a problem with the portal when he contacted Pinnacle in May 2023. At 
this time a document that shouldve been available, couldnt be viewed. I can see the 
document in question was made available whilst Mr P was on the call to Pinnacles agent.  
Having considered this point, I dont dispute there was a document missing from the portal 
when Mr P called in 2023. But this doesnt show there was a problem with the renewal 
documents when they were added to the portal in 2022. The records support that this 
information was available on Mr Ps portal in April. I note he has since been able to review 
this information via his portal access.
In summary, Im sorry Mr P had to pay a higher policy excess charge than he expected to. 
But Im satisfied that Pinnacle had communicated this information to him. So, I cant fairly 
ask it to do anymore.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Mike WaldronOmbudsman