DRN-3593002
The complaint
Miss S complains that TM Advances Ltd lent to her irresponsibly and without carrying out 
proper affordability checks. She would like all the fees and charges associated with the loan 
refunded.
What happened
In October 2019 TM Advances approved a loan of £3,000 for Miss S, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £249 per month over a term of 40 months. The 
purpose of the loan is not entirely clear, although it seems that most of it was intended 
to be used to consolidate debt. When assessing the application, TM Advances asked 
Miss S about her financial circumstances; looked at a recent bank statement; and 
carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
It would appear that Miss S was unable to make repayments and the account is/has 
been subject to debt management processes, and a balance remains.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and thought TM Advances shouldnt have 
approved the lending for Miss S. TM Advances disagreed and asked an ombudsman to 
look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, and Ill explain why.
TM Advances is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Miss S would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. 
As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, she needed to be able to meet her financial commitments and not have 
to borrow elsewhere to repay TM Advances for the loan to be considered affordable 
and sustainable.
There are two questions I need to consider when deciding this case, which I will 
deal with separately below.
Did TM Advances carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
The adjudicator thought that TM Advances should have done more in-depth checks before 
approving this lending, and gathered more information. I dont disagree with this, in the 
sense that TM Advances could have tried to gather information which would have supported 
its decision to lend. The information it did have very strongly suggested the borrowing was 
neither affordable nor sustainable for Miss S. So, it should have either declined the 
application based on what it had, or sought further evidence in the hopes of establishing an 
overall more positive financial situation for Miss S. It did neither.
As part of this investigation, Miss S has provided us with some longer term bank statements, 
showing patterns of borrowing from family and friends. In addition, shes sent us confirmation 
of additional borrowing around the time of this application, which therefore means her debt 
repayment was even higher than TM Advances checks showed.
Was TM Advances right to conclude that the lending was affordable and sustainable for Miss 
S? And what would additional information have likely shown it?
Had TM Advances gathered more information about Miss S financial situation, that 
information is very likely to have simply confirmed what the existing evidence already 
showed. Namely, that Miss S was in widespread financial difficulties and that this borrowing 
was neither affordable nor sustainable for her.
Ill summarise the key issues, most of which can be seen from the evidence TM Advances 
had.
The front page of the credit report it received contained several large warnings, in 
capital letters, that Miss S was a very high risk potential borrower. It says, The 
majority of applicants for credit with this score will experience serious repayment 
problems if the application is accepted. 
The bank statement showed recent borrowing from, and large repayments to, about 
seven other high cost short term lenders, and payments to at least two different debt 
recovery companies. In the month shown on the statement, Miss S paid out more 
than £2,150 just to high cost short term lenders, over and above other credit 
commitments.
The bank statement also shows apparent borrowing from friends and family  a long 
standing pattern that was confirmed by additional bank statements going back further 
than the one month statement TM Advances saw. This borrowing was for significant 
amounts every month.
TM Advances completed an income and expenditure (I&E) assessment using a 
monthly income of £3,085. However, the pay slips Miss S provided it showed 
headline annual pay of £32,166, which would equate to significantly less than 
£3,085 per month. It is clear that Miss S received extra amounts on whichever month 
the pay slip is from (there is no date, or indeed Miss S details on it) via overtime etc. 
And there is a different (in fact higher) amount again showing on the bank statement. 
So Miss S actual average monthly income is entirely unclear.
Even if you accept £3,085 as an average monthly income (which I dont), the I&E 
clearly significantly underestimates Miss S monthly debt burden at £1,285. The bank 
statement shows that in the month leading up to this application Miss S spent over 
double that  £2,564  on credit repayments. That figure does not include 
repayments to family and friends. Her bills and every day expenses were estimated 
at £1,800. Therefore the evidence shows no disposable income at all, and indeed 
that her outgoings substantially exceeded her income, by well over £1,000. TM Advances doesnt accept that this complaint should be upheld, and says that it asked 
whether Miss S had any debts to friends or family, although I cant see any note of that on 
the application data from the time. Whether it did or not, and whether Miss S told the truth or 
not, is of no relevance to the outcome of this case. The bank statement it had showed TM 
Advances that Miss S had no disposable income, quite the reverse. The later evidence to 
show the heavy borrowing from friends and family only serves to underline what ought to 
have been evident from the information at the time. I have additionally considered that the 
bulk of Miss S credit repayments were to high cost short term lenders  meaning that 
potentially the bank statement represents an anomaly, and generally she wasnt so indebted. 
Whilst thats possible, it isnt what the evidence suggests. The credit check in fact shows 
repeated high cost short term borrowing as a pattern.
Finally, I have thought about the fact that it does appear that at least some of this borrowing 
was intended to consolidate other lending. It seems that TM Advances calculated that Miss 
S monthly debt burden would be reduced by £768 through the settling of other accounts. 
However, given that the bank statement shows monthly expenditure of over £2,500 in credit 
repayments, even taking into account the potential for savings through consolidation, that 
would still have resulted in a likely credit burden of over £1,700 per month. Taken together 
with her estimated day to day bills and expenses at £1,800, even if she had consolidated 
other accounts as expected, her outgoings would have continued to exceed her income.
In summary, all the evidence shows that Miss S was experiencing sustained and substantial 
financial difficulties, and that this borrowing could in no way be described as affordable and 
sustainable for her. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
As I understand it, the outstanding balance on this loan is still owned by TM Advances, and 
has not been sold to a third party. On that basis, I direct TM Advances to do the following:
A) TM Advances must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Miss S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
B) If this results in Miss S having made overpayments then it must refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
payments were made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) If there is still an outstanding balance following the actions set out in A, then TM 
Advances should agree a suitable repayment plan with Miss S. I remind it of its obligation to 
treat her fairly in so doing.
D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Miss S credit file in relation to this 
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct TM Advances Ltd to put 
things right as set out above .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman