DRN-2729371
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services (Post 
Office) delayed processing his application for a two-year growth bond and cancelled it.  
Mr P was represented in his complaint. For ease of reading, reference to Mr P also includes 
his representative. 
What happened
Mr P sent an application to Post Office for a two-year growth bond in May 2020 and sent 
them the funds by cheque. Post Office requested information so they could carry out the 
relevant checks. Mr P contacted them over the telephone and sent information by letter. 
However, Post Office cancelled the application and returned the funds to Mr P. 
Mr P made a complaint to Post Office in July 2020. He felt that he had been put to 
considerable inconvenience when he was asked for information that simply was not 
necessary according to their own forms. He said the offer for the bond was then withdrawn 
and so he feels he has lost the opportunity of two years interest at 1.25%. He calculated this 
loss to be around £600.
 
Post Office responded to the complaint in August 2020. They didnt uphold the complaint. 
They said that they sent letters requesting further information but didnt receive it. Therefore, 
they said they returned Mr Ps funds and it was only after they were returned that a further 
letter was received. They explained they had to follow strict security procedures before 
entering into a financial agreement. Post Office felt they had followed the correct account 
opening procedures.
 
Mr P remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator felt that Post Office 
hadnt done anything wrong. Mr P didnt accept the investigators view. Therefore, the case 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Post Office wrote to Mr P on 22 May 2020. I can see they asked for identification documents 
and confirmation of whether Mr P would like to add the interest into a linked account or 
growth bond. They said the payment of interest box was not flagged on the application form. 
He was asked to provide the documents by 19 June. 
This letter also included a form to be filled out. They set out what would be acceptable in 
respect of the documentation and this included a bank statement. The form also stated that 
Post Office required suitable documentation within the next 28 days, or the application would 
be cancelled. They also included a telephone number to call to discuss alternative 
documentation. Therefore, Im content that Post Office were reasonably clear that if they 
didnt receive suitable documents before the deadline, they would cancel the application. 
Mr P responded to their request and made a note to say how he wanted to receive the 
interest. However, I can see Mr P only sent the first page of the bank statement. It is up to 
Post Office to determine what information they consider necessary to be able to carry out 
their obligatory checks. Nevertheless, Im of the view that when they requested a bank 
statement, Post Office would expect this to include the full transaction history and not just 
the first page with an address and account details on it. I cant tell Post Office what 
documents are suitable to meet their account opening requirements as that is a matter for 
them to decide.
As Post Office didnt think the bank statement provided was suitable, they wrote to Mr P 
again on 4 June. They said that the identification provided was not valid and asked for a 
proof of address document. They also requested confirmation about how he wanted to 
receive the interest. In this letter, Post Office said they needed the information by 18 June. 
Mr P has told us that he didnt receive this letter until 10 June. 
Additionally, Mr P says there was no relevant tick box on the application form. Ive reviewed 
the form and can see Post Office explained that if the application was for a two-year bond 
then interest would automatically be added to the growth bond. Post Office also said that if 
the applicant wanted it paid to a linked account then they needed to tick the relevant box. I 
can see there is a tick box next to this, although it seems it may have been faded on Mr Ps 
version. Also, Mr P filled out his bank account details in the linked account section. 
Therefore, its reasonable Post Office wanted to confirm this. I recognise Mr P made a note 
to clarify this on his previous response, but Im not persuaded that it means Post Office 
acted unreasonably because they asked for a second time. 
 
Mr P has told us his representative called the Post Office on 12 June 2020. But they couldnt 
discuss why the bank statement hadnt been accepted because they didnt have 
authorisation to speak with the representative. Hes explained his representative doesnt live 
close and its difficult for him to provide authorisation over the phone. 
However, Ive listened to the call on 17 June 2020. The call handler wasnt sure why the 
bank statement wasnt suitable but suggested it could be because it hadnt been certified 
correctly. Therefore, Mr P was misinformed here. Nevertheless, Post Office had previously 
made it clear what documents they would consider suitable. Therefore, it wasnt necessary 
to understand why the bank statement had been rejected in order to arrange for suitable 
documents to be sent, although I do appreciate why this would have been helpful. 
Additionally, during this call the call handler didnt discuss the deadline. Post Office have 
explained that she wouldnt have been able to determine when the deadlines were based on 
the information she could see. I appreciate why this would have been helpful, but Im not 
convinced it was unreasonable as Post Office had set out the deadline in their letters. 
Ive given further thought to the deadline set by Post Office. In their letter of 22 May 2020 
Post Office said they needed the information by 19 June (which was 28 days from the date 
of Post Offices letter). And in their letter of 4 June, they said they needed it by 18 June. Post 
Office should be accurate when stating relevant deadlines. But I cant say this was 
detrimental to the overall application process as the difference was only a day. Also, Mr P didnt respond until 18 June and Post Office explained they didnt receive the documents 
until 22 June. 
Overall, Im satisfied Post Office reasonably explained they needed to receive appropriate 
documents by the deadline in order to open the account. I appreciate they could have been 
clearer at times and I understand Mr P spent time getting this information together. But Post 
Office didnt receive the information as they had requested by the deadline and so I cant say 
it was unreasonable that they cancelled the application. They were also reasonably clear 
about what information they would consider suitable and Im satisfied there was a 
reasonable length of time to gather this information. As a result of this, Im not persuaded 
Post Office have caused Mr P a financial loss. 
In response to the view, Mr P also said that Post Office failed to make reasonable 
adjustments. However, Ive listened to the calls from 1 and 17 June and can see Post Office 
discussed the third-party mandate form so they would be able to speak to his representative. 
They also got his authorisation to note relevant information on his file. I appreciate there 
were difficulties visiting the branch, but I also must balance this against the issues 
businesses were facing at the time as a result of the global pandemic. Having done so, Im 
not persuaded Post Office acted unfairly during the application process or that it was 
unreasonable for them to cancel the application. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman