DRN-4092647
The complaint
Mr G complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (118 118 Money) is 
holding him liable for a transaction he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr G managed various credit and debit cards through a third-party app, Ill refer to as C. 
Mr G had uploaded his 118 118 Money credit card on to the C app. On 20 October 2021 he 
received a notification through the C app that £345 had debited his 118 118 Money account 
by a telecommunications provider, Ill refer to as V. As Mr G didnt have an account with V 
and hadnt authorised the transaction, he contacted C for help. C didnt reply immediately 
and so Mr G disputed the transaction with 118 118 Money.
118 118 Money initially provided Mr G with a temporary refund and agreed to raise a 
chargeback claim with C. 118 118 Money later re-debited Mr Gs account as it said C had 
defended the chargeback claim, having provided evidence that Mr G had an existing 
relationship with V. Mr G challenged this decision with both C and 118 118 Money. He 
provided evidence from V that it had no record of the £345 transaction, and that it had 
advised him to contact his bank. Mr G explained that while he had previously paid V, on 
behalf of his mother who did hold an account with it, the £345 transaction was not connected 
to her account.
Mr G sent 118 118 Money evidence that C had accepted the chargeback and that he should 
receive a refund. Despite this 118 118 Money maintained that it could not provide Mr G with 
a refund as the chargeback had been unsuccessful. It also explained that it could not 
consider a fraud claim, as Mr G had said he had given his mother access to his C account, 
and as a result he was in breach of the terms of the account by failing to protect his credit 
card from unauthorised use.
Mr G remained unhappy and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that 118 118 Money refund Mr G 
£345 plus any interest accrued because of the transaction. He explained 118 118 Money 
had not evidenced Mr G authorised the payment and there was evidence from C that it was 
no longer challenging the chargeback, so in either event Mr G should not be held liable for 
the transaction.
Mr G accepted our Investigators recommendations but 118 118 did not. It said it had 
extensive evidence to demonstrate that Mr G had negligently allowed a third-party access 
to his C account, and so did not protect his 118 118 Money credit card from unauthorised 
use. Our Investigator asked 118 118 Money to provide the evidence it had referred to, but he 
received no response.
Before reaching a decision on this case, I reached out to 118 118 Money to ask again for the 
evidence it sought to rely on that this transaction had been authorised by Mr G, or someone 
acting on his behalf, as this was something Mr G denied. I also asked it to explain why it felt 
the chargeback would still be unsuccessful despite us receiving clear evidence from C that it 
had accepted it. I asked 118 118 Money to reply by no later than 2 August 2023.
Having received no response from 118 118 Money, I issued my provisional decision on 
24 August 2023, explaining why I was minded to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I have set out my 
provisional findings below, but in summary I explained that in the absence of any evidence to 
show Mr G had authorised the payments I was unable to conclude 118 118 Money was 
acting fairly in holding him liable for it. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 set out that it is for the payment service 
provider to prove that the payment transaction was authenticated, accurately recorded, 
entered in the payment services account and not affect by a technical breakdown or 
some other deficiency in the service provided by the payment service provider.
While 118 118 Money hasnt confirmed either way, I have inferred from its reference to 
Mr G acting negligently that it has accepted the payment in dispute wasnt in fact 
authorised by him. Which matches what Mr G has asserted  and Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence to suggest he did authorise the payment.
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, the starting position is Mr G is liable for 
transactions he authorised, but 118 118 Money would be liable for transactions he didnt 
make or authorise. The exception is if it can demonstrate that Mr G failed with intent or 
gross negligence to comply with his obligations as a payment service user, and that gross 
negligence enabled the transaction to take place.
118 118 Money appears to believe Mr G allowed his mother access to his C app, in 
breach of the terms and conditions of his account.
Having carefully considered the evidence available, Im not persuaded this is the case. 
Mr G said in a call to 118 118 Money when he reported the unauthorised transaction that 
he had, in the past, made payments to V on his mothers behalf. He did not say he had 
allowed his mother access to his account in order to make the payments herself. So, in 
the absence of any evidence to indicate something different, Im not persuaded that Mr G 
breached the terms and conditions of his account.
But even if Mr G had allowed his mother to use his C app in the past to make payments, I 
dont think this would meet the high bar to say hed acted with intent or gross negligence 
or that the gross negligence had resulted in the disputed transaction.
Ultimately, V has confirmed that the transaction in dispute did not relate to Mr Gs 
mothers account and the money had not credited her account. So even if Mr G had 
previously allowed his mother to make payments from his account, there is nothing to 
suggest this links in any way to the payment now in dispute.
As 118 118 Money has been unable to demonstrate that Mr G either authorised the 
payment or acted with gross negligence, I cannot conclude 118 118 Money has acted 
fairly in holding him liable for the transaction.
Im also mindful that evidence received from C suggests that it had accepted the 
chargeback claim, and so I would have expected Mr Gs account to have already been 
recredited. Again, despite being afforded an opportunity to explain why Mr Gs account had not been recredited 118 118 Money has not responded.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and direct 
Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money to:
- Refund Mr G £345
- reconstruct the account to remove interest and charges relating to this transaction, and
- pay Mr G 8% simple interest (less any tax properly deductible) on any repayments he 
has made in relation to this payment from the date each payment was made to the date 
of settlement.
Mr G accepted my provisional decision. 118 118 Money responded setting out why it 
considered a chargeback claim would have failed, as the payment to V was no made direct 
from 118 118 Money, but rather it was made to C. It made no comment in relation to the 
authorisation of the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive noted 118 118 Moneys comments in relation to the likely success of a 
chargeback claim, as set out above, my reason for upholding the complaint was due to the 
lack of evidence from 118 118 Money that Mr G had authorised the payment. 
As 118 118 Money has made no comment in relation to these findings and as Ive seen no 
evidence to show the payment was authorised, I see no reason to change my findings as set 
out in my provision decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct to: 
Refund Mr G £345
reconstruct the account to remove interest and charges relating to this transaction, 
and
pay Mr G 8% simple interest (less any tax properly deductible) on any repayments 
he has made in relation to this payment from the date each payment was made to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman