DRN-2927830
The complaint
The estate of Mr M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold a guaranteed 
over 50s plan in 1999. The estate says it wasnt fair that Mr M paid in more to the policy than 
the sum assured it received upon his death. 
The estate is being represented by Mrs M  the late Mr Ms daughter.
 
What happened
Sadly, in 2020 Mr M died, so Mrs M made a claim to Aviva under this policy. Aviva accepted 
the claim and paid £870.20 to Mr Ms estate. Mrs M was unhappy with this sum because 
Mr M had paid in approximately £1,746. And if he had lived until he was ninety-five, when 
the premiums would no longer be payable, Mrs M said her father wouldve paid in roughly 
£2,772. So, Mrs M believed the policy had been mis-sold. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said this was a non-
advised sale and it wasnt uncommon for policies such as this one to pay out less than what 
is paid in. So, she didnt think it had been mis-sold.  
Mrs M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said Aviva should return what 
her father had paid in because Aviva no longer had copies of the policy documentation. And 
it wasnt fair that it could take more money than the sum assured on this policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs M feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mrs M would like the premiums her father paid into the policy to be refunded. Aviva has been 
able to find a copy of a similar type of marketing material, which it says Mr M wouldve seen 
when he decided to apply for the policy. But Aviva hasnt provided a copy of the terms and 
conditions for this specific policy due to the time that has passed. Thats not uncommon in 
these circumstances. I note the marketing material explains that due to the guaranteed 
benefit being a fixed sum, the total premiums Mr M pays into the policy could be greater. 
Thats in line with how these policies work.  
Aviva has said this policy was sold on a direct sales basis which means Mr M completed a 
form and applied for the policy without receiving any advice. The sum assured was fixed 
from this point. So, Im satisfied - on balance - it was Mr Ms responsibility to ensure the 
policy was suitable for his needs and whether or not he felt the policy sufficiently covered 
any funeral expenses over the long term. He couldve sought financial advice at the time if 
he wished, but I havent seen any evidence that he did so. And I havent seen any evidence 
that he was unhappy with the sum assured before he died. So, I cant fairly say the policy 
was unsuitable here. 
I think it would be helpful for me to explain that the nature of these type of policies means 
that the length of time the policyholder lives for will determine whether they receive more or 
less than the premiums theyve paid. This is a common principle with insurance, as it only 
pays out when an insured event takes place. And so, in the early years of a policy being set 
up, the premiums Mr M paid would be less than the sum assured. In Mr Ms case, the 
premiums he paid exceeded the sum assured because he fortunately lived for a longer 
period of time. So, Im satisfied Aviva hasnt treated the estate of Mr M unfairly here. 
I realise this isnt the outcome Mrs M is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Aviva has to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman