DRN-2626274
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Watford Insurance Company Limited handled his motor trade 
insurance claim. 
What happened
In March 2020 one of Mr As vehicles was stolen. He claimed for it on his Watford motor 
trade policy. Watford accepted the claim. It offered £1,192 to settle his claim. This was 
based on a trade value of £1,880 with a deduction of 10% to reflect the vehicles lack of 
MOT. It was inclusive of a £500 policy excess deduction. Mr A was unhappy with the 
settlement offer. He felt a market value should have been used  not a trade one. He also 
felt Watford had taken too long to deal with the claim.  
Watford responded to complaints from Mr A. It said it had dealt with his claim in reasonable 
time. It said it had settled using a trade value in line with the terms of his policy. It felt the 
10% deduction was fair because Mr A hadnt shown the car had been repaired since he 
bought it in an unroadworthy condition. Watford added that it could have refused the claim 
fully because of the cars condition. Mr A was still unhappy so came to this service.
Our investigator didnt agree Watford had caused unnecessary delay when dealing the 
claim. He felt it had fairly used a trade value. But he felt its trade valuation was too low  he 
said £2,295 would be fairer. He also said the no MOT deduction was unfair. Mr A still didnt 
agree a trade value to be fair. Watford didnt accept the new higher valuation or that the no 
MOT deduction was unfair. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Watfords settled the claim using a trade value. It feels the vehicle wasnt owned personally 
by Mr A. It says the car wasnt registered to Mr A, didnt have a current MOT and was 
untaxed. So it feels it was a stock vehicle, not a personal one. That means under the policy 
terms any total loss claim is to be settled on a trade value basis. 
Mr A says the car was personally owned so, in line with the policy terms, a market value 
should be used. He says the car not being registered in his name doesnt mean it wasnt his. 
Hes also said that he drove thousands of miles in it. 
Mr A accepts he bought the car as stock. But he says it later became his personal one. I 
accept its possible the car was at the time of the theft his personal one. But overall, I havent 
seen enough to make me think that was most likely the case. 
It had been quite a long time between the cars purchase and the theft without him 
registering the car in his own name. There isnt enough to persuade me it was most likely a 
personal car even if he did cover a few thousand miles in it. It seems more likely the car was 
owned by Mr A for the purpose of selling on. So I cant say Watfords decision to settle the 
claim on a trade value is unfair or unreasonable.  
Our investigator said the trade value Watford used to settle the claim was too low. It used 
one guide that provided a value of £1,880. The investigator checked two further guides. 
These came in at £2,325 and £2,265. He felt the lowest value, £1,880, should be 
disregarded as an outlier. So a he felt a fair value would be the average of the two others - 
£2,295.
Watford disagrees with that. It feels the lower value shouldnt be disregarded but an average 
of all three should be used. I agree with the investigator. The lower value is significantly out 
of line with the other two. Its about 17% lower than the closest one. And that one is only 
about 2% lower than the highest. So I agree that a fair trade value to settle the claim on is 
£2,295.
Our investigator didnt feel it was fair for Watford to deduct 10% from the value of the car for 
it not having a current MOT. The car didnt have a MOT at the time of the theft with its last 
one having expired three or four months earlier. If Watford could show the car was 
unroadworthy and would have failed a MOT then I might feel it was reasonable for it to 
deduct something from the settlement. But it hasnt done that. Instead it assumed the car 
wasnt roadworthy. It hasnt shown it would fail a MOT. So I agree with the investigator that 
its not fair for Watford to make such a deduction.    
Mr A feels Watford took too long to settle his claim. Having considered everything. I cant say 
it did. It seems to have considered the claim in reasonable time. There arent any 
unnecessary delays I feel Watford was responsible for.
So Watford should have settled Mr As claim based on a trade value of £2,295 with no 
deductions except for the relevant policy excess of £500. That means it should have been 
settled at £1,795 instead of £1,192. So Watford will need to pay Mr A the difference of £603.  
As Mr As been unfairly without that extra amount Watford will need to add simple interest at 
8%. It should add that from the date of the interim payment for this claim until the date of 
settlement.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Watford Insurance Company Limited need to pay Mr A £603. It 
will need to add simple interest at 8% from the date of its interim payment to Mr A to the date 
of settlement. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman