DRN-4379996
The complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc have provided him with poor customer service on multiple 
occasions.
What happened
Mr D says he visited a TSB branch in June 2023 to cancel a £10,000 bond he had opened 
with them, and to add his wife onto his account. He says the staff cancelled the bond, but 
they refused to transfer £10,000 to another account in his name and he says they told him to 
transfer this online. He says TSB were unable to add his wife onto his account despite them 
making an appointment to do this. Mr D said he subsequently failed security with TSBs 
fraud department, and the £10,000 payment he had tried to make had been blocked. Mr D 
says that he was sent an online form to complete, but he was unable to do so.
Mr D says he visited a TSB branch on 5 July 2023 as the TSB message he received 
informed him that if he didnt have a smartphone, or he was unable to complete the form, 
then he should visit a TSB branch with the appropriate documents. But Mr D says that when 
he visited the branch, the staff sent him away to do this online. The staff later tried to 
complete the form, but they were also unsuccessful, and they had to get support from other 
colleagues. He said that a member of staff who attempted to try this left him as she had a 
personal appointment she needed to go to, and Mr D was sent away from the branch so the 
branch could close for staff to get something to eat. 
Mr D says TSB told him to never transfer more than £500, which impacted interest being 
earned on the account he wanted to transfer the £10,000 to. Mr D says that his wife tried to 
record on her phone the conversation with TSB, so there would be no confusion with what 
was said, but the branch manager refused her permission to record the conversation. He 
says he was without access to his £10,000 for nearly a month and he has lost out on interest 
because of this. Mr D asked the branch staff to raise a complaint for him, but he says they 
refused to do this, and they told him that a complaint could only be made online, which Mr D 
found out to be incorrect. Mr D made a complaint to TSB and asked them to view the closed-
circuit television (CCTV) footage as it would show the message informing him to bring his 
identification to the branch. He also said that they had discriminated against him due to his 
age and disability. 
TSB did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. They said that with the allegations of the service 
provided and the behaviour of the staff, whilst they were not casting doubt on his view of the 
events, they also considered the recollections of the staff involved. TSB said the branch staff 
provided a very different recollections of the events to those which Mr D described, 
therefore, based on all of the information they had, they were unable to agree that they acted 
in any inappropriate way. They said the colleague who had been supporting Mr D on 5 July 
2023 had to stop helping Mr D before the situation was resolved as she had a pre-booked 
hospital appointment which she had to attend, but another colleague took over.
TSB said that without a pre-booked appointment, they do their best to attend to customer 
requests, where possible on the same day, so Mr D was asked to call back in at 2pm, after 
the branch had re-opened after lunch where he was offered a private room and the attention 
of a branch colleague, and after the meeting the block was successfully removed. TSB said 
that at no time was there any form of discrimination as any customer in the same 
circumstances would have been treated in exactly the same way. They confirmed they dont 
allow filming in their branches. Mr D brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. She said TSB have explained that when it 
needs to verify a customer, they also now offer the option for customers to send their 
documents online in an effort to save another journey to branch. She said TSB denied that 
they refused to assist Mr D in transferring £10,000 to his third party account, and they also 
denied that they told him to complete the transfer in smaller amounts. 
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he asked them to keep the CCTV as this shows him providing documents, 
and it would also show the branch decided to close for lunch an hour earlier than advertised 
in the branch. He said he was told to transfer funds from his account at £500 a day, which 
caused him to lose out on interest elsewhere as it would take 20 days to transfer £10,000, 
and the staff kept directing him to do things online such as raising the complaint and 
uploading his identification, instead of dealing with this in the branch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Ds complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome. But I can assure Mr D I have read everything he has 
said  including information about his health.
I must make it clear to Mr D that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how they 
should operate their security procedures, such as what questions they should ask Mr D, 
when they should block a transaction and internet banking, and what they require from their 
customers to remove any blocks on the account  even if attempted payments are in the 
same name of their customer. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct TSB to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. 
Mr D has asked for compensation to compensate his wife for the time shes spent 
complaining to TSB and the distress and inconvenience she had with this. But I must make it 
clear to Mr D that our rules only allow us to award compensation to an eligible complainant. 
Here, Mr D is the only eligible complainant. So Im unable to award any compensation to his 
wife as part of this complaint, as she is not an eligible complainant here.  
TSBs personal banking terms set out how they can refuse to make a payment. As they had 
concerns about a payment Mr D was trying to make, they took measures to block this 
payment from completing when Mr D did not pass their security process on the phone. 
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent them from being victims of fraud and scams. Sometimes they identify and 
block legitimate payments due to security concerns. This can cause distress and 
inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
Mr D has raised age and discrimination points with how TSB have treated him. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  
but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mr D wants 
a decision that TSB has breached the Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go to Court. 
However, based on what Mr D has said in relation to TSB discriminating against him, I am 
not persuaded that TSB has treated Mr D any differently to other customers in similar 
situations, and I will explain why.
Mr D and the TSB staff have very opposing testimonies about what happened in the branch 
on 5 July 2023. Mr D is adamant he was told he needed to complete the form online and the 
staff werent assisting him to remove the block, he has also told us they refused to transfer 
the £10,000, they refused to log a complaint for him, and he was told to never transfer more 
than £500 a day, which impacted interest being earned on the account he wanted to transfer 
the £10,000 to. 
TSB staff have a different testimony to Mr D about all of these points. As the CCTV would be 
unlikely to contain audio, then I wouldnt be able to rely on that to listen to exactly what was 
said, and given the time thats passed, its unlikely to be available now. Although Mr D asked 
them to review the CCTV as part of the complaint, they are not obliged to indefinitely retain 
CCTV footage. And it is outside of our remit to tell them what their procedures should be 
regarding their CCTV footage, and how they should investigate complaints.
And while Mr Ds wife suggested filming the conversations on her phone which might have 
been able to demonstrate what was said, TSB have confirmed in their final response to Mr D 
that they dont allow filming in their branches. TSB are entitled to take this stance, so I cant 
say they have made an error in not allowing Mr Ds wife to record in the branch. Mr D has 
been consistent that TSB refused to raise a complaint in branch, and TSB are consistent that 
they would not refuse to raise a complaint in branch if Mr D himself as an eligible 
complainant asked them to do this. 
On the balance of probability, Im persuaded that it is unlikely Mr D was told he couldnt 
complain in the branch. I say this as when Mr D did make a complaint he sent the letter to 
the branch. So if the branch had told him he couldnt complain with them, I would have 
expected him to send the letter to the complaints address shown online, when Mr D had 
found out the information online that he could complain in the branch. 
As Mr D has said he was unable to pass the security procedures on the phone with TSBs 
fraud department, then I would expect TSB to have controls in place to need extra 
verification from Mr D. While the smartphone upload or the online forms may have been one 
option, they werent the only option, as Mr D told us about the message he received from 
TSB saying he could visit a branch, so I dont think they treated him any different to any 
other customer in this instance when he didnt pass the security procedure. 
Mr D asked TSB to review their CCTV footage before it was deleted as this would show that 
the branch decided to close for lunch an hour earlier than advertised in the branch. It would 
also show the message he was sent, and it would show him providing the documents. But it 
is not in dispute that TSB staff have confirmed that the branch needed to close when it did 
due to staffing issues, and this had been agreed by TSB management prior to the closure. 
I can understand why this may have been inconvenient to Mr D, especially given what hes 
told us about his health, but Im not persuaded that this was avoidable given the 
circumstances that Ive been made aware of. As this concerns TSBs security procedures, 
then I would be unable to disclose any further information as part of this decision, but I can 
assure Mr D that the closure was not as a result of anything he had done. While this 
undoubtedly inconvenienced Mr D as he had to leave the branch, given how long Mr D says 
the process took to complete, its unlikely that if TSB had taken the advertised lunch break, that the process would have been completed before this time, so Im persuaded that Mr D 
wouldve needed to return back to the branch even if the advertised lunch break hadnt been 
brought forward due to security concerns from TSB.
I can sympathise with Mr D that a member of staff who had tried to help him had to leave 
him to go to a pre-booked hospital appointment, which meant another member of staff had to 
start over again. But as Mr D didnt have a scheduled appointment with TSB on 5 July 2023, 
then I cant say that this could have been avoided when the first staff member was unable to 
remove the block prior to her appointment. 
TSB have said that there was a sign on the door that day which said the branch would be 
closed between 1-2pm, which was the change as the branch doesnt normally close for 
lunch. They said their understanding is that at 12pm they asked Mr D if he could return at 
2pm because there was only two staff present in the branch at 12pm and to resolve the 
issue they would need to go into an office, leaving only one member of staff, which would be 
a security risk. Im not persuaded that its in dispute Mr D agreed to come back at 2pm, since 
he did re-visit the branch and when he did, the block was able to be removed. 
Im satisfied that reasonable adjustments were made for Mr D as when their normal process 
of filling in the form online wasnt successful, they were able to speak to the payment 
verification team from the branch who confirmed Mr Ds identity and the block was removed. 
It could be considered with hindsight, that if TSB had rung through to the payment 
verification team when Mr D first visited the branch then this may have been completed 
without him having to return to the branch, but Im also mindful that they would expect the 
online process to be a quicker process than ringing another department, potentially being on 
hold for a while, and have multiple questions to answer over the phone. So I cant guarantee 
that Mr D would have been able to complete this process either before the staff member left 
for her appointment. 
Im also not persuaded that CCTV would have been able to see exactly what the message 
showed. I say this as CCTV would tend to cover large areas of a branch. I would not expect 
footage to be able to be zoomed in to the extent that a message could be seen on a 
smartphone. I can see from TSBs system information that the block was removed due to Mr 
D bringing in his passport and his driving licence, so Im satisfied that he did bring in the 
identification he needed to, to have the block removed from his account. 
While Im unable to say one way or another what exactly was said in the branch, Ive 
considered what Mr D has said about him being told by TSB that he should never transfer 
more than £500 a day and this meant he lost interest for the near month it took him to 
transfer the £10,000 to his third party account. 
Ive looked at Mr Ds account statements. This shows that after the block was removed on 5 
July, there were occasions where he transferred to his third party account more than double 
£500. On 15 July 2023, he made two payments totalling £1,000, and on 18 July 2023, he 
made two payments totalling £1,200. He also made payments to his third party account for 
£700 after the block had been removed. So Mr D should have been reasonably aware that 
he could transfer more than £500, so I cant hold TSB responsible for any interest he may 
have lost out on if the full £10,000 wasnt transferred as soon as the block was removed. 
The block had only affected the payment he attempted to make and his access to his 
internet banking, and when this was removed on 5 July 2023, there were no restrictions on 
his account. So it follows I dont require TSB to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman