DRN-3062260
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the way RAC Insurance Limited handled his request for 
reimbursement of a hire car for onward travel when he claimed under his breakdown cover 
policy. 
What happened
Mr A broke down and contacted RAC Insurance. He was entitled to a hire car but the 
company RAC used wouldnt provide Mr A with a hire car due to a previous issue. Mr A was 
aware of this issue. With RACs agreement, he made arrangements with another company 
to provide him with a hire car. He provided RAC Insurance with an invoice so that RAC could 
reimburse him. 
RAC found discrepancies with the invoice and had difficulty authenticating the information 
with the hire car company. And so it asked Mr A to provide proof of payment. Mr A raised a 
complaint. RAC said it wasnt able to pay the claim and was trying to contact the hire car 
company. 
In August 2021 Mr A asked us to look at things for him. Although RAC hadnt received the 
information it wanted from the hire car company, it made an offer to reimburse Mr A for the 
hire car costs he claimed for, rounding it up to the nearest £10 and adding interest at 8%. 
Our investigator thought that RACs offer was fair as she thought it had made reasonable 
enquiries to validate Mr As claim in light of the discrepancies it had found. 
Mr A wants an ombudsman to decide. He raised a new complaint about where the payment 
was sent to and the delay caused. This has been dealt with separately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think its unreasonable for an insurer to make enquiries in order to verify payments a 
customer wishes to be reimbursed for. I dont think RAC is responsible for the first hire car 
companys decision not to provide a car to Mr A. This was something outside of its control. 
I can see that RAC was unable to validate the invoice(s) provided by Mr A. There were a 
number of discrepancies - the first invoice Mr A provided appeared to be in relation to a hire 
car agreement from two months earlier. RAC made several attempts to clarify matters with 
the second hire car company, but without success. 
In August 2021 Mr A provided RAC with a second invoice for a lower amount  and provided 
proof of payment. 
RAC has agreed  and paid  the amount Mr A claimed for in respect of hire car costs, even 
though it hasnt been able to conclude its enquiries. And to put Mr A back in the position he 
would have been in had RAC been able to validate his claim sooner, it paid interest on the 
reimbursement  so that Mr A hasnt lost out.
I understand Mr A is unhappy about how RAC paid the refund. This is a new complaint and 
so I cant comment on that in my decision. 
I think RACs enquiries were reasonable and it treated Mr A fairly and as it would any other 
customer in the same circumstances. I think its decision to settle Mr As claim and pay 
interest on the amount is a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint. So Im not asking it 
to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I find that RAC Insurance Limiteds 
settlement to put things right by refunding Mr A for the car hire payment with interest is 
reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman