DRN-3061045
The complaint
A company, that Ill refer to as M, complain that Zurich Insurance PLC declined their claim 
for business interruption. The complaint is brought by Mr M, Ms director.
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
These restrictions had a significant impact on the services M could provide.
M held a business insurance policy with Zurich. This included business interruption cover, so 
they made a claim. But Zurich declined it in July 2020. It said the policy primarily covered M 
for business interruption arising from damage. And that Covid-19 couldnt be considered 
damage by the policy definition. 
It said there was cover for the occurrence of certain kinds of diseases at Ms premises. But 
that Covid-19 wasnt one of the specified diseases the policy covered. It acknowledged 
though that it could have explained this earlier and paid M £150 compensation for that.
M complained to us. But our investigator thought the policy terms had been applied fairly. 
M didnt agree, so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the government restrictions imposed on M had a considerable financial impact. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether Zurich 
should have met their claim. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in full, Ive only addressed the 
elements of cover most relevant to Ms circumstances below. The burden of proof initially 
rests with M to demonstrate, on balance, theyve suffered a loss that their policy covers. 
Core business interruption cover
The core business interruption cover in Ms policy is for:
loss of income and/or extra expenses incurred by you as a result of interruption 
or interference with the business caused by damage to:
the buildings of the premises shown in the schedule
the contents or glass of the premises shown in the schedule.
Damage is defined in the policy as:
Loss of damage.
Im satisfied this refers to a physical loss. I havent seen anything to indicate the Covid-19 
pandemic, or the Governments response to it, caused loss or damage to the buildings, 
contents or glass of Ms premises. So, Im satisfied theres no cover under this term. 
Additional cover  Prevention of Access
This covers M for:
Loss of income and/or extra expenses as insured by this section incurred by you 
as a result of interruption or interference with the business caused by damage 
insured by this policy to property in the vicinity of the premises which prevents or 
hinders the use of the premises or access to them.
I havent seen anything to indicate the Covid-19 pandemic, or the Governments response to 
it, caused loss or damage to property in the vicinity of Ms premises. So, Im satisfied this 
additional cover doesnt respond in the circumstances of Ms claim either. 
Additional cover  Disease, vermin and suicide extension 
This covers M for:
Loss of income and/or extra expenses as insured by this section incurred by you as 
a result of interruption or interference with the business caused by
a) any occurrence of a notifiable disease at the premises or attributable to food or 
drink supplied from the premises
b) any discovery of an organism at the premises likely to result in the occurrence of 
a notifiable disease
A definition is given for notifiable disease, which is:
Illness sustained by any person resulting from
food or drink poisoning
one of the following specified human infectious or human contagious 
diseases:
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Bubonic Plague, Anthrax, Cholera, 
Diphtheria, Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, 
Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Ophthalmia 
neonatorum, Paratyphoid fever, Rabies, Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever, 
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral hepatitis, Viral 
haemorrhagic, Whooping cough, Yellow fever
an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to 
them. 
I recognise Covid-19 wasnt something Zurich might have known about when the policy was 
drafted and have considered this point carefully. But there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which does now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that 
subsequently became notifiable. In contrast, Ms policy includes a list of specified diseases. And theres nothing in the policy 
which implies that cover will be provided for diseases not on the list, including any new 
diseases which emerge, and / or become notifiable at a later date. Im satisfied that the 
purpose and effect of the list is to provide cover in the event of these particular diseases.
As Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases included in this list, Im satisfied this 
additional cover wouldnt respond to the business interruption caused as a result of the 
restrictions introduced by the Government to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
M have mentioned the test case brought by the Financial Conduct Authority. But this only 
affected claims made under non-damage business interruption cover. And it didnt seek to 
resolve coverage issues relating to clauses that have an exhaustive list of diseases which 
doesnt include Covid-19, as is the case here. 
Whilst I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to M, I havent found that 
theyve been able to establish, on balance, theyve suffered a loss their policy covers. 
M also suggested that, had they been made aware of the outcome of their claim earlier, they 
could have handled things differently. But when prompted, they havent explained what they 
mean by this. And I cant see Zurich led M to believe the claim would be paid. 
As such, I havent seen evidence to persuade me its more likely than not that any delay in 
Zurich letting M know the outcome of their claim caused a financial loss. And I feel Zurich 
has paid adequate compensation for the non-financial impacts of this delay. So, I wont be 
asking it to do anything further in this regard. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman