DRN-2923861
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt reimbursed him after he 
transferred money to an investment company that turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Mr H has been the victim of a scam. He was tricked into 
sending £5,000 to an investment that appeared to be being offered by a legitimate 
company. However, unbeknown to Mr H, he was actually dealing with scammers. In total, 
Mr H made the following payments:
£1,000 on 19 October 2018
£4,000 on 14 November 2018
Mr H made all of the above transfers without any interaction with NatWest staff. However, 
he now feels that NatWest shouldve identified the payments he was making as suspicious.  
He says NatWest shouldve contacted him to discuss the payments before it agreed to 
process them on his behalf. Mr H believes that had NatWest done so, the scam wouldve 
come to light, and he wouldnt have proceeded to make the transfers.
NatWest didnt agree that it could have done anything more than it already had to protect 
Mr H and so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She acknowledged that the £4,000 payment 
that left Mr Hs account was slightly higher than any recent payments hed made from the 
account. But, overall, she didnt think the transactions were so unusual and out of 
character when compared with Mr Hs usual account activity that NatWest shouldve 
questioned Mr H about the payments before they allowed them to leave his account. She 
also thought NatWest had done all it could to recover Mr Hs funds once notified of the 
scam, but this was many months after the transfers had left the account, so the funds had 
already been removed from the receiving account prior to Mr H informing NatWest of what 
had happened. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings. He felt that the transactions now in 
dispute shouldve stood out to NatWest and reiterated that he should have been contacted 
prior to them being processed. He said that NatWest shouldve been aware that the 
company he was dealing with wasnt genuine and stopped the transfers before they left his 
account. 
As an agreement has not been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr H. I have significant sympathy 
for the situation he has found himself in. But having thought very carefully about what 
hes told us happened at the time and NatWests actions, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to hold NatWest liable for his loss.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr H, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
NatWest should reimburse him with the money he has unfortunately lost to the scammers. 
Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr H when he transferred £5,000 to a fraudster and when he reported the 
fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Mr H authorised the payments himself. He logged into his internet banking and used his 
security details in order to request the payments be made to the accounts he specified. And 
whilst we now know that these accounts were not legitimate, the funds were regardless 
paid to the account details Mr H had entered and therefore the transactions were requested 
and authorised by him. Because of this, NatWest had an obligation to follow his 
instructions. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer 
look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained above. I consider 
that as a matter of good practice NatWest shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and 
out of character transactions.So, Ive then thought about whether the transfers Mr H made could be considered out of 
character and unusual when compared with his usual account activity. Ive reviewed Mr Hs 
account statements for the months leading up to the scam, and Im not persuaded they 
were. Mr H had made similar payments in the months leading up to the scam. For example, 
Mr H had a number of transactions from the account ranging from £1,000 to around £2,500. 
And so, it wouldnt now be reasonable for me to say that a transaction amount of £1,000 
was unusual for his account. Whilst I acknowledge that the second £4,000 payment was a 
little higher than previous transactions, but Im not persuaded that it was so out of character 
that it warranted further checks by NatWest. 
Ive also thought about the fact the payments were sent to a new payee. However, I dont 
find that a payment to a new payee is in itself suspicious enough to mean that NatWest 
shouldve considered that Mr H was at risk of financial harm and contacted him before it 
made the payments at his request.
Mr H has told us that the previous payments made from the account were in respect of 
holiday expenses, made to genuine companies, and therefore there was a clear distinction 
between the previous genuine payments and the scam payments. But I dont agree. At the 
time, there was no way for NatWest to have known that Mr H was making payments to a 
scam company. The payments were of a similar value to payments hed made in the 
previous months which indicated a propensity to make payments in the low thousands. And 
so, Im not persuaded that either of these transactions wouldve looked particularly unusual 
to NatWest. It is now only with the benefit of hindsight that we now know that these 
payments were being made as the result of a scam and I dont agree that there was 
anything inherently suspicious about them at the time. 
It is important for me to stress that banks have to strike a balance between processing 
payments as per their customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual and 
potentially harmful activity. And I dont think it would be fair to say that NatWest shouldve 
identified the payments Mr H made as suspicious enough to warrant further checks.
Ive also thought about whether NatWest couldve done more to help Mr H once it was 
notified of the scam but I dont think it could. NatWest contacted the receiving bank upon 
notification of the scam. But, unfortunately by this point, all of Mr Hs funds had been 
removed from the receiving account.
I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about the situation Mr H has found himself in. 
But at the same time, dont think his loss was caused by any specific failing on behalf of 
NatWest. The fault here lies with the cruel and callous acts of the fraudsters themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman