DRN-1541195
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) refused to refund a 
transaction he says he never authorised. 
What happened
On 7 May 2019 a transfer was made from Mr Cs NatWest bank account for £450 using 
online banking. Mr C disputed the transaction with NatWest by telephone on 29 May 2019 
saying that he didnt authorise the transaction and that he didnt recognise the third party 
account the payment was made to.
NatWest decided to decline Mr Cs fraud claim. It said that for the following reasons it 
thought Mr C authorised the transactions:
The payment was shown to have been carried out using a mobile telephone device 
that had been used to make previous undisputed payments.
It was unlikely that a third party would have been able to access his mobile banking 
without having known his security information.
Mr C hadnt reported the transaction until three weeks after it was made despite 
having accessed the account between these dates.
Mr C was unhappy with the outcome of his claim and made a complaint to NatWest as he 
wanted it to refund the amount. He was also unhappy that hed been given incorrect 
timescales by NatWest regarding when hed receive a response to his complaint.
NatWest responded to Mr Cs complaint and said that it agreed with the outcome of his fraud 
claim. It did however acknowledge that Mr C had been sent a message in error giving 
incorrect timescales and apologised for this.
Mr C remained unhappy with this response as he wanted a refund for the amount of the 
disputed transaction  so he came to our service. An Investigator here looked into Mr Cs 
complaint but didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong. She thought it was more likely 
than not that Mr C authorised the transaction for broadly the same reasons that NatWest had 
declined the claim and subsequent complaint. She also felt that Mr C had provided 
conflicting testimonies which didnt support his version of events.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators assessment of his complaint. As a result of this, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basic position in law is that NatWest can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transaction if 
he authorised it, or if he didnt take reasonable steps to keep his account safe. 
When considering if the payment was authorised by Mr C or not, Ive looked at the evidence 
and testimonies provided by both parties and weighed up  on the balance  what is more 
likely than not to have happened in these circumstances.
NatWest have provided evidence to show that the disputed transaction was carried out using 
a device previously used by Mr C to access his online banking and make undisputed 
payments from his account. Mr C also confirmed with NatWest the dates hed registered his 
device, and these coincided with its records. This persuades me that the payment was likely 
made from Mr Cs genuine mobile telephone device.
Mr C has been questioned by both NatWest representatives and our Investigator on how 
someone might have been able to access his mobile telephone and mobile banking 
application in order to carry out the transaction without his knowledge. Mr C has provided a 
variety of conflicting testimonies regarding the security on his device and his online banking 
application; Ill list these in chronological order.
1. When initially questioned regarding his fraud claim Mr C said that his phone wasnt 
protected by any security features.
2. When Mr C was informed his fraud claim was declined he informed NatWest staff 
that his phone was protected by a pattern lock. He also said that regardless of this, 
his app was protected by a six-digit PIN and was therefore secure.
3. When Mr C complained to NatWest he informed the complaints handler that his 
mobile was locked with a four-digit security PIN.
4. When Mr C came to our service, he told our Investigator that his mobile was 
protected by a PIN but his banking app didnt have any security features.
Mr C has however consistently said that at the time of the disputed transaction he was at 
work and had left his mobile on a sill at the site where he was working. He has denied that 
any other person other than him had access or knew the security information of either his 
mobile phone or banking application. And when asked how someone could have accessed 
his mobile banking hes been unable to explain this, but he has mentioned that it is easy to 
guess a PIN and someone could have seen him entering this previously. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that someone could have overlooked Mr C entering his 
security access information for his mobile, and this likely would have been relatively easy to 
remember if this was a four-digit PIN or pattern lock. But I dont think it likely that someone 
could have overlooked or guessed both his mobile phone and banking app PIN together 
considering the difference in number of digits and combinations of code. Whilst Mr C thinks 
that it is easy to guess a PIN, four to six digits have a huge number of variations that would 
make it highly unlikely to be able to guess, and even more so without any incorrect attempts. 
Whilst Mr C has provided conflicting testimonies regarding the security of his mobile device 
and his mobile banking, I think that its more likely than not that both of these had security 
features  PIN or otherwise. I say this as its highly unlikely that a banking application would 
be accessible without security features, and Mr C has also admitted on previous occasions 
to having a PIN protecting his devices mobile banking application. Hes also admitted this 
when speaking about his mobile telephones security. And when considering that a vast 
majority of people secure their phones with security features due to the personal information 
they contain, this adds further weight.
Nevertheless, even had there been no security on either the mobile telephone or banking 
application, I also think there are other factors that cast some doubt on the testimony Mr C 
has provided. One of the main factors is how long it took for Mr C to report the disputed 
transaction to his bank.According to Mr Cs online banking logs, he regularly logged into the app  sometimes 
several times per day  on every day after the disputed transaction was made. He didnt 
however report the transaction to NatWest until 29 May 2019. When Mr C was asked about 
this by NatWest, he said hed not noticed it despite making a transaction two days later using 
his online banking. I find it highly unlikely that despite logging into his online banking 
regularly and making genuine transactions that he didnt notice £450 was missing from the 
balance of his account. And this is even more unlikely when considering that this amount 
was a substantial percentage of his balance at the time of the transfer.  
When Mr C came to our service, he told our Investigator that hed reported the transaction to 
one of NatWests branches the day after the transaction was made and was told that this 
was being looked into. But NatWest have no record of Mr C reporting this on its systems. 
Ive also listened to all the telephone calls between Mr C and NatWest and note that at no 
point did Mr C mention this throughout his claim and complaint  in fact, he told NatWest that 
the reason he hadnt reported the transaction sooner is because he hadnt noticed it. 
Considering all of the above points, I think it unlikely Mr C attended branch and reported the 
disputed transaction prior to the 29 May 2019  some three weeks after the transaction was 
made. And I also find it unlikely that he hadnt noticed the funds missing sooner.
Ive also considered why  if the transaction was an opportunist fraud  that the person 
responsible for this didnt empty the full balance of the account. Considering theyd have 
access to Mr Cs online banking, its unusual for someone not to remove all the funds when 
they have readily available access to the accounts balance.
Considering the above points, I think it more likely than not that Mr C made the transaction 
himself. Whilst I appreciate that Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, I dont think  
when considering the evidence  that its reasonable to conclude that an unauthorised third 
party carried out this transaction.
Whilst I acknowledge that NatWest have admitted to its error in providing incorrect 
timescales, I think that its apology for this is fair and reasonable considering the above 
findings.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman