DRN-2390911
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Scottish Widows Bank) continues 
to make errors with the monthly payments for their interest only mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M contacted SWB in mid-2019 as the balance on their mortgage account had 
increased. This was because the monthly interest payments collected by SWB werent 
enough to cover the interest. 
SWB said it had an IT problem which it was trying to fix. It offered two options, and Mr and 
Mrs M took the second option. It was agreed they would continue to make underpayments 
and SWB would fund the shortfall. Once the IT problem was fixed SWB would adjust the 
balance (and bear the cost of the shortfall) and correct the monthly payments.
In mid-2020 the problem was still not fixed and Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage balance had 
increased further. SWB said it didnt know when a solution would be implemented. It paid 
£50 compensation to Mr and Mrs M for failing to raise a complaint for them in 2019. Mr and 
Mrs M were unhappy, saying this problem had gone on for too long and a mortgage lender 
should be able to calculate monthly payments correctly. 
Our investigator said he couldnt require SWB to fix the IT problem any sooner than it was 
able to do so. But it should pay another £50 for the effect these delays had on Mr and 
Mrs M.
SWB didnt agree. It said Mr and Mrs M could have taken the other option which would have 
corrected the account sooner. It said any further redress should form part of the strategy to 
rectify the account. Mr and Mrs M were disappointed that we couldnt require SWB to fix the 
problem. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SWB has an IT problem which means it isnt collecting the correct amount of interest from Mr 
and Mrs M each month. As a result, Mr and Mrs M are underpaying and their balance has 
increased.
Mr and Mrs M first raised their concerns in mid-2019 and SWB offered them two options, as 
follows: 
1. Scottish Widows Bank can reset your debt now to the original loan amount and 
increase the monthly payment to seek to reduce the impact of this happening again 
between now and the implementation of the system solution. I must, however, point 
out that when the system fix is implemented there may have to be a further correction 
to the outstanding debt (to bring it back in line with the original mortgage loan 
amount) and to the monthly payment. Of course, Scottish Widows Bank accepts that 
it would write off any additional amount that might build up if the new interim monthly 
payment does not keep the debt at the correct level).
2. If you prefer, we could leave things as they are at the moment and wait until the IT 
system fix is implemented before we adjust the debt downwards. The consequence 
of this would be that the monthly payment would not be increased until the system 
solution is implemented. As a result, the difference between the amount owed at that 
time and the original loan would go up. Scottish Widows Bank would bear the cost of 
the increased write off.
Mr and Mrs M chose the second option. Unfortunately, a year later the problem hadnt been 
rectified. 
SWB has said it will write off the increased difference in the balance owed. So Mr and Mrs M 
arent out of pocket due to the error. Just the opposite: they are underpaying their mortgage 
interest and SWB has said it will bear the cost of the shortfall.
SWB said it shouldnt pay an additional £50 compensation as Mr and Mrs M chose option 2, 
knowing this would mean underpayments would continue until the matter is fixed. I dont 
think this is fair. I dont think Mr and Mrs M could have known when they chose option 2 that 
a year later the problem would still not be fixed, and SWB would be unable to tell them when 
it would be fixed. This has caused Mr and Mrs M some worry, trouble and upset.
Putting things right
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration about how long this problem has gone on for. The 
way SWBs final response letter is written does somewhat imply it has a solution and has 
chosen not to implement it yet. Ultimately though its for SWB to make a decision about the 
best way to correct the problem, and to manage the implementation of any changes. I cant 
reasonably require SWB to fix its IT problem by a specific date. 
SWB has said it would bear the cost of any shortfall, and so Mr and Mrs M shouldnt be out 
of pocket. And its said it will deal with any further redress when the matter is resolved. 
However, this has now been going on for some time, theres no clear date when it will be 
sorted out and it has caused Mr and Mrs M some worry and upset. In the circumstances I 
think its fair and reasonable for SWB to pay £50 to Mr and Mrs M.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order SWB Bank PLC (trading as Scottish 
Widows Bank) to pay £50 to Mr and Mrs M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman