DRN-3894174
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the decision made by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) following a claim 
for theft under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
(Mr G has had an authorised representative dealing with his claim and providing support 
when bringing his complaint to this service. For ease of reference I have referred to Mr G 
throughout this final decision). 
Mr G took out home insurance with Aviva. Mr Gs policy covered him for theft. 
The policy booklet also explained the following general exclusion:
6. Deliberate or Criminal Acts
Any loss or damage
a. deliberately caused by; or
b. arising from a criminal act caused by;
you or any person living with you. 
In June 2021 Mr G contacted Aviva to register a claim following damage to his home. 
Aviva sent a third party (company S) to assess the damage in order to determine Mr Gs 
claim. This was arranged for 9 July. Mr G confirmed he had contacted the Police following 
the incident. Aviva contacted the Policy directly to obtain a copy of the police crime report. 
This was received on 26 August. The crime report explained:
This is a report of Criminal Damage, committed by informal tenants who were 
residing at the property. The informant is the owner of the house. The persons he 
believes is responsible for the damage were 3 males who were living in the property 
at the time. 
There has been an ongoing dispute between the informant and the 3 males who he 
invited to live at the house in approximately September 2020. The relationship 
between the informant and his unofficial tenants and he has previously made a report 
to police accusing the tenants of criminal damage
The informant has vacated the house at some time in April 2021 to go and stay with 
a relative.. leaving the 3 tenants still residing at the house. He has returned to the 
house at the end of May 2021. The front door was locked and when he left himself in 
he has found the house has been vacated by the 3 tenants but the house has been 
turned upside down with items being strewn around the house and damages to one 
of the bedroom doors.
On 7 September company S wrote to Mr G asking for further explanation, as the information 
recorded in the police crime report contradicted what hed told them about the claim 
circumstances. Mr G says he responded to this letter by post. Company S say they didnt 
receive a response from Mr G until 15 October when they received an email from him. 
On 21 September company S wrote to Mr G confirming his claim would not be paid, and that 
it would be treated as a fraudulent claim in accordance with the policy terms. 
Company S received an email from Mr G on 17 October expressing his disappointment with 
inaccuracies detailed in the police crime report. Company S contacted the Police directly to 
ask for comments on the crime report that had been previously provided.
On 26 November the Police responded saying that Mr G hadnt indicated that there were 
any financial arrangements in place when discussing the arrangement of people that were 
living with him. The response also said that the impression at the time was that it was more 
a case of the 3 persons who were staying at the address were casual acquaintances that 
he may have fallen out with and that was the reason he left to stay with a relative. The 
response concluded there were no further leads for the police to investigate [Mr G] 
didnt know the correct names for any of the persons whom he left in his house. 
On 6 December company S sent a further letter to Mr G explaining why his claim wouldnt be 
paid out. Mr G wasnt happy with this response and the claim was referred to Aviva. Aviva 
wrote to Mr G on 3 January 2022 highlighting the policy exclusion from Mr Gs policy relating 
to loss or damage arising from a criminal act caused by; you or any person living with 
you. 
Mr G was unhappy with this response, and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service saying:
- [company S rep] should also have known from [the] visit that the information relaying 
to the break in and damage was valid. However this information was ignored and not 
properly taken into consideration. 
-also failed to take into consideration or realise that from 7th September onwards 
the original log by the PC contained erroneous entries. The Police Management 
Team, following a telephone call on the 10 September 2021, updated the [system] 
with the correct information. 
The investigator found that Aviva had acted reasonably in applying the policy exclusion for 
declining Mr Gs claim, and didnt ask Aviva to do anything in settlement of Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G rejected these findings.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
agent, company S. As Aviva have accepted they are accountable for the actions of company 
S, in my decision, any reference to Aviva includes the actions of company S. 
Mr G feels strongly that Aviva have not dealt with his claim properly. I thank Mr G for taking 
the time to explain his personal circumstances and everything thats happened since the 
incident in his home around May 2021. I understand it was a difficult time for Mr G. Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Having reviewed the evidence I dont think Aviva need to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr G but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Its not disputed that after Mr G reported the damage to his home Aviva sent a 
representative from company S to investigate what had happened, and the damage claimed 
for. This is in line with what wed expect an insurer to do when dealing with a claim made by 
one their policyholders. Mr G had told company S that a police crime report had been 
completed shortly after the incident. I think it was fair for company S to request a copy of this 
report so that they could further understand the details of Mr Gs claim, and what had been 
reported at the time. 
The police crime report referred to other persons living in the house with Mr G for some time 
before the damage was reported. It was further recorded that The persons he believes is 
responsible for the damage were 3 males who were living in the property at the time. 
There has been an ongoing dispute between the informant and the 3 males who he invited 
to live at the house in approximately September 2020. 
Based on the information provided here I think it was reasonable for company S to have 
asked Mr G for more details about his claim, and specifically, what he had told them about 
his understanding of who had caused the damage when the claim was first discussed with 
Aviva. The police crime report makes specific reference to Mr G believing that the 3 males 
who were living in the property at the time were the likely persons who had caused damage 
to Mr Gs property. 
I appreciate Mr G is frustrated by Avivas findings on his claim. Mr G feels strongly that his 
evidence and version of events havent been given proper consideration when assessing his 
claim. But when evidence is contradictory or inconclusive (or both) I have to make a finding 
on the balance of probabilities. That is what I find is most likely to have happened in view of 
the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
I have considered Mr Gs comments about the police crime report being amended at a later 
date. But despite requests made by this service, I have seen no evidence of an amended 
crime report which directly contradicts the contents of the original crime report. The crime 
report extract I have seen reasonably references Mr G holding the three persons that were 
living at the property most likely responsible for the damage that he was reporting. Because 
of this, on balance it seems more likely than not that the damage was caused by the 3 
males who were living in the property at the time. 
The policy exclusions say that the policy would not cover loss or damage arising from a 
criminal act caused by; you or any person living with you. Having considered the 
circumstances of Mr Gs claim and in particular what was recorded in the original police 
crime report about the persons living with Mr G, the likely disagreement that followed, and 
Mr G leaving his property unoccupied for a period of time, I think Aviva have acted 
reasonably in declining Mr Gs claim because of the policy exclusion for criminal damage 
caused by any person living with Mr G. 
Mr G has also expressed disappointment with the general handling of his claim, including the 
lack of proper communication with him, delays, and lack of investigation of the claim details. Ive considered Mr Gs comments and the evidence he has provided in support of this. But I 
dont think Aviva have mishandled Mr Gs claim in the way that he has described. The steps 
followed to investigate the claim, and the timescales in which these were completed, were 
reasonable. Delays, although frustrating, were generally as a result of waiting for third party 
information, such as the police crime report. Overall the claim was progressed in line with 
the way wed expect.
I appreciate Mr Gs disappointment with this outcome. This situation has clearly left Mr G 
feeling stressed, upset, and financially out of pocket. But I cant ask Aviva to pay for the 
claim, given the evidence thats been provided, and what the policy terms explained about 
the circumstances in which cover wouldnt be provided. I havent seen any evidence to 
persuade me that Avivas actions were wrong, or outside of the policy terms. So I wont be 
asking Aviva to take any further action in response to this complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman