DRN-3785932
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice AEON Financial Services Ltd gave to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling its DB pension scheme (known as the BSPS) from the 
company. The employer and scheme trustees consulted with the scheme members about 
the possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits. The options presented included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or a new defined-benefit 
scheme known as BSPS2. Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr B was concerned about what his employers announcement meant for the security of his 
pension. He contacted AEON for advice. He met with it in August 2017 and it completed a 
fact-find and an assessment of his attitude to risk. AEON recorded that:
Mr B was 45, married, in good health with one dependent child.
He was employed and earning £38,500 a year. His wife, Mrs B, was also employed 
and earning £12,500 a year. After covering their regular outgoings there was around 
£13,000 left over each year.
Mr Bs preferred retirement age was 58.
His attitude to risk was very cautious.
He owned his home with an outstanding mortgage of around £54,000. The mortgage 
was due to be cleared in September 2024.
He and his employer made contributions to a money purchase pension plan of 12% 
of his salary. It was currently valued at £6,160.
He had another DB pension with his former employer. That was expected to pay a 
yearly pension of £1,503 at age 60 together with tax-free cash (TFC) of £3,116.
Mrs B was a member of her current employers DB scheme 
Mr and Mrs B had savings of around £2,000.
They would both claim their full state pensions at age 67.
Mr Bs BSPS pension had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around 
£305,500. That would pay him a yearly pension of £14,402 at age 60 if he didnt take 
TFC or a pension of £9,887 with a tax free cash payment of £65,917. If he took his 
pension at age 65 the scheme would pay him £19,956 a year, without taking TFC or 
£13,226 a year after taking TFC of £88,171.
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of eligible 
schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original 
schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
AEON obtained a transfer value analysis report. The report showed the following critical 
yields (the growth rate required to match the benefits provided by the DB scheme and the 
PPF from an alternative pension):
Age Full pension TFC and pension PPF  full pension PPF pension and TFC
65 7% 5.9% 4.9% 4.5%
60 8% 6.5% 6.1% 5.5%
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to:
stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF
move to the BSPS2
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. 
The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 
22 December 2017).
Around the same time AEON met with Mr B on three more occasions, producing interim and 
provisional recommendation reports before producing its final recommendation letter in 
October 2017. AEON recommended that Mr B should transfer his BSPS benefits into two 
funds contained within one named flexi access drawdown personal pension. It said that 
doing so would:
Allow Mr B to retire at age 60.
Have flexibility and control of his pension.
Enjoy better death benefits, including enabling him to pass on his pension to his 
daughter upon his death. 
Avoid the likelihood that his pension would move into the PPF. 
Mr B accepted AEONs recommendation, and his pension transferred to the named personal 
pension in December 2017. Mr B paid AEON a fee of £6,563 for its advice and arranging the 
transfer. It would also charge him 0.5% of the fund value for ongoing advice.
In January 2019 Mr B told AEON that he no longer wanted its ongoing advice service. 
In April 2021 Mr B complained to AEON about the suitability of its advice. Amongst other 
things he said:
AEON didnt ask him how much he would need to support his family or what his 
spending plans were in retirement. 
It didnt ask him to what extent he was prepared to accept a lower income if his 
investments performed poorly.
He had few other assets to support his retirement income.
AEON didnt explain how his DB benefits could support his needs in retirement and 
focused on helping him achieve early retirement. 
It didnt tell him that he could lose all his pension funds. 
He wasnt happy with AEONs charges, which had increased.
He also wasnt happy with its advice. He said that wasn't focused on retirement and 
also covered other subjects like income protection etc. AEON didnt initially reply within the time-limits allowed to do so. Mr B brought his complaint 
to our service. After hed done so AEON replied to Mr Bs complaint. It didnt uphold it. 
Amongst other things it said:
It had calculated that Mr and Mrs B would require an income of around £34,800 a 
year in retirement. 
Mr B said he wanted to retire at age 58 but they agreed that age 60 was more 
realistic.
It had provided cashflow models which showed how Mr B could meet his income 
needs at retirement both from staying in BSPS and also from transferring to the 
named personal pension.
Mr B had provided a handwritten statement which said he understood that he was 
giving up a guaranteed income and that if investments fell in value his drawdown 
plan might not provide enough income.
The BSPS scheme would have provided barely sufficient income to meet his needs 
if retiring at age 60 and gave him very little flexibility.
The BSPS2 was inferior to the BSPS.
By transferring Mr B avoided his benefits going into the PPF and allowed him to meet 
his other objectives, which could not be met by either DB scheme. 
Mr B had acknowledged the risk of a reduced income in his handwritten note. 
Life insurance had been considered but dismissed as Mr B could better meet his 
early retirement needs by transferring out of the BSPS.
Mr B had other income sources at retirement including his state pension, his money 
purchase pension scheme and his former employers DB scheme.
Owing to ongoing health issues and the physical demands of his job, early retirement 
was important to Mr B.
AEON considered the feasibility of Mr B remaining in the BSPS and retiring at age 60 
but that did not meet his needs. 
It had made Mr B aware of the risks of investment losses but that it was very unlikely 
that he would lose all of his funds. 
Before providing advice Mr B had agreed to pay AEONs fees in August 2017.
Mr B had accepted AEONs holistic advice service. 
AEONs charges had increased in the second year as it had given Mr B a discount in 
the first year.
While AEON didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, given that he was dissatisfied with its service, it 
offered an ex gratia resolution to the complaint. It said it would repay Mr B all the fees he 
had paid to AEON plus 3% interest coming to a total of almost £9,800.
We put AEONs offer to Mr B but he didnt accept it. So one of our investigators looked into 
his complaint. Our investigator upheld the complaint. In short he thought the opportunity to 
improve on the benefits available through the DB scheme was low. So, he didnt think that 
transferring to a personal pension was in Mr Bs best interests. He also thought any need for 
flexibility could be addressed nearer to retirement. And he didnt think potential better death 
benefits from a personal pension was worth giving up DB benefits for. Overall, he thought 
AEON should have advised Mr B to opt into the BSPS2. The investigator recommended that 
AEON should compensate Mr B for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension 
and that compensation should be based on him having opted to join the BSPS2. He also 
said that AEON should pay Mr B a sum of £350 to address his distress and inconvenience 
arising from AEONs unsuitable advice.
 
Mr B accepted our investigators findings but AEON didnt agree. Amongst other things it 
said:Our investigator hadn't factored in the problems the BSPS was facing and the 
distrust its members felt. 
Mr B was concerned his DB benefits might be transferred to the PPF so deferring 
action wasnt an option. And at that time there were no guarantees about the benefits 
from the BSPS2. 
The CETV was likely to reduce in future and AEONs research indicated that 
transferring was a better option. 
The early retirement factors of the BSPS and the PPF would significantly reduce 
Mr Bs income in retirement impacting his objective of retiring early.
Similarly death benefits would be reduced by moving benefits to the PPF.
The benefits from the BSPS2 werent known at the time so it had done its analysis 
based on the more generous benefits from the BSPS. This showed that Mr B should 
still have income left over beyond his life expectancy by transferring to a personal 
pension.
Improved death benefits for Mr B's wife and daughter were important to him. 
Mr B didnt say he wanted a guaranteed income. And its report said that if he wanted 
to buy an annuity then the growth rates were likely unachievable. 
The growth rates required to match the DB scheme benefits was achievable in 
drawdown as a rate of 3.2% was required to age 90 and 3.5% to 95.
Owing to the capping of the indexation with the DB scheme, in times of high inflation 
the DB benefits can lose real value. 
The critical yield was not the appropriate measure when comparing benefits with a 
drawdown arrangement.
It believed its advice to transfer away from the DB scheme was suitable and it met 
the regulatory requirements. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his decision. Amongst other things he said:
He was aware of the BSPS scheme members concerns. But on 11 August 2017 the 
regulator had given approval for the restructuring of the scheme. 
The information in the time to choose letter sent around the time of AEONs advice 
confirmed that transfers would be allowed for the BSPS2 and the effect on future 
CETVs was unknown. 
If Mr B wanted to retire early he could have used the funds from his money purchase 
scheme to do so and accessed his DB benefits closer to age 65 to avoid the early 
retirement factors.
As AEON didnt agree with our investigator the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and in responding to it both Mr B and AEON have made a number 
of detailed points. I've considered everything on file carefully. But in this decision I don't 
intend to address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being at 
the heart of Mr Bs complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AEON's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by our investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, AEON 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Bs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
AEON obtained a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). But, this was based on the BSPS benefits and 
Mr B didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 
or move his benefits with the scheme to the PPF. 
AEON said that the benefits from the BSPS2 weren't known at that time. And the benefits of 
the BSPS were known to be better than those proposed in BSPS2  because the indexation 
was greater. So it said it was reasonable to use a comparison with the BSPS when 
comparing benefits and growth rates as those would most likely be higher than those 
required to match the benefits from the BSPS2. And as the BSPS2 was thought to be of 
greater benefit than the funds going into the PPF then, in reality, the growth rates required to 
match the BSPS2 benefits were likely to be somewhere between those required for the PPF 
and those for the BSPS. So, while I think AEON shouldve tried to ensure its analysis was 
based on the benefits available through the BSPS2, if it couldnt be certain of the BSPS2 
benefits, I think using the higher growth rate of the BSPS as a comparison was reasonable 
as that should have been more difficult to achieve. 
However, I think that even if AEON had made comparisons between the personal pension 
and the growth rate require to match the BSPS if it had moved into the PPF, that still would 
have demonstrated that the transfer was not financially viable. AEON gave its advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
The closest discount rate to this time Im able to refer to was published by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and is 4.2% per year for 14 years 
to retirement if Mr B retired at 60 and 4.4% if he retired at 65. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
very cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr B giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Here, the lowest critical yield was 5.9%, 
based on Mr Bs BSPS benefits. However, had the BSPS moved into the PPF, then that 
would have reduced to 4.5% if Mr B had also taken TFC at age 65 and to 5.5% at age 60. 
Given the discount rate of 4.2% and the regulators middle projection rate of 5%, I think Mr B 
was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by the PPF 
and the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing in line with his 
attitude to risk.
AEONs said that the critical yield isn't a useful measure as Mr B hadn't intended to buy an 
annuity. The critical yield is a useful tool as it is a reasonable comparison of the growth 
required in order to replace DB benefits with something of a similar nature, that is a product 
that would provide a guaranteed income for life including provision for a spouse. And, at that 
time, the regulator required AEON to consider the rate of investment growth that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis 
based on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here. Thats particularly 
the case as I dont think Mr B could realistically say with any certainty whether he would 
want to take a regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least 
another 13 and more likely 15 years. Its entirely possible that Mr B would want at least some 
guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB 
scheme).
But, critical yields are not the only measure we use to compare pension benefits. And, in this 
case I've also looked at the regulators projection rates and AEONs own expectation that 
Mr Bs fund would grow at a level of 3.88% a year. But those figures dont, in my view, 
support a transfer away from Mr Bs scheme as being in his best interests on financial 
grounds Thats because the personal pension fund value at retirement wouldnt be sufficient 
to replace even the benefits available to Mr B through the PPF.
Its notable that AEONs cashflow analysis projected a yearly growth rate of 3.88% before 
charges of 1.5% are taken into account. And once those are factored in they would reduce 
the growth further. So those charges would further reduce the actual growth rate achievable 
from the fund. In reality that meant that, using AEONs own cashflow models the fund was 
only likely to grow at a net rate by 2.38% a year. Also the cashflow models show the income 
growing at a steady rate. But given the volatility of the markets, consistent growth at that 
level, seems unlikely over such a long period of time. 
Further, if there was a sustained period of poor performance then there was a very real 
chance that Mr Bs fund would grow at a much slower rate or could suffer losses. And while 
Mr B did give AEON a handwritten note to say that he understood the risks he was taking, that doesn't mean it was in his best interests to put those funds at risk. And I believe AEON 
should have advised Mr B that opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits under which were 
guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a personal pension 
would have been better suited to his needs and his attitude to risk. So, I dont think it was in 
Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he didnt need
Also, the cashflow analysis shows Mr B substantially reducing the income he takes from a 
personal pension at age 67, once his state pension becomes payable. So, in AEONs 
cashflow model the funds are only made to last by virtue of Mr B taking a minimal income 
from his pension from age 67. Whereas the transfer value analysis report demonstrates that 
the fund would be depleted at age 87 if Mr B withdrew the same income he was entitled to 
under the scheme if he achieved net returns of 2%. This leads me to believe Mr B would 
likely be substantially worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme. Thats 
particularly the case if returns were low.
So, given Mr B was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in his best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as AEON 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable and in Mr Bs best interests, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered 
these below.
Flexibility 
It seems the main reason AEON recommended Mr B transfer was for the opportunity to 
retire early, and to take his pension flexibly. Having considered the evidence, I dont think 
achieving these goals at the expense of the guaranteed benefits from a DB scheme was in 
his best interests.
Mr B initially told AEON that he wished to retire at 58. But AEON told him that wasnt 
achievable and that age 60 seemed a more reasonable prospect. AEONs said that Mr B 
had a recurring injury which had previously required surgery and which was being made 
worse by the physical demands of his work. And for that reason he wanted to retire early. 
But at the time of the advice Mr B was still 15 years away from turning 60 and 20 years away 
from his normal retirement age of 65. And he wouldnt receive his state pension until 67. A 
lot could happen in the intervening period. So Mr Bs plans to retire early, made when he 
was still only 45, could have changed significantly by the time he neared 60. And Mr B had 
options other than transferring to a personal pension in order to retire early.
For example Mr B and his employer had recently started paying 12% of Mr Bs salary, at that 
time equivalent to £4,620 a year, into a money purchase pension pot. So, assuming the 
yearly contribution stayed at 12% each year, and his salary grew at 2.5% a year (in line with 
AEONs cashflow model) the fund would have received around £82,800 when Mr B was 60. 
And if that fund had grown at the regulators lowest projected rate of 2% each year then it 
could be worth around £96,500 at age 60. So an option for Mr B could have been to take 
early retirement at age 60 and use the TFC and income from his money purchase scheme; 
the income from his former DB scheme; and his wifes employment income - assuming she 
continued to work a further three years until she reached her scheme retirement pension age 
of 60; to fund the early years of his retirement until age 65. Mr B could then have taken 
money from his DB scheme (including TFC) and that should have given Mr and Mrs B 
sufficient income to cover their outgoings until they could claim their state retirement 
pensions when they respectively reached age 67.
Alternatively, if Mr B had felt that the income from the BSPS2 wasnt enough for his needs at 
that time, he could have considered transferring his DB benefits to another scheme at that point. But that wasnt a decision he needed to make when he was still only 45 years old. But 
it doesn't appear that AEON put that option to him. 
It follows that I don't think the only prospect of Mr B taking early retirement relied on him 
transferring his benefits into a personal pension. 
That said, its true to say that Mr B couldnt have had flexible access to his DB funds. While 
he could have chosen to take those early, if hed wanted to take TFC, then he would have 
had to take that at the same time as drawing a regular income from his pension. Whereas 
the personal pension would allow him to draw down funds as he saw fit. But while I can see 
why that might have been an attractive prospect to him, Im not persuaded that Mr B had any 
concrete need to take TFC at all or to vary his income throughout retirement. So while the 
option of drawing his income flexibly might seem like something that would be nice to have, I 
can't see that Mr B had any genuine need for that flexibility that would be worth giving up 
guaranteed benefits for. 
I accept that at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been formally established. Although 
I think the information the scheme trustees had issued made it clear that it was most likely 
that its operating conditions would be met, but it wasnt certain. I note that Mr B was clearly 
concerned about the prospect of his pension moving into the PPF. But its not clear how 
AEON addressed that concern. For example a move to the PPF would mean, on a general 
basis, a reduction of around 10% in retirement income and less generous yearly indexed 
pension increases. But the 10% reduction didnt apply across the board, and in some ways 
the PPF could actually be beneficial for scheme members. For example, as I've shown in the 
table below, AEONs transfer value analysis report showed that the PPF benefits could have 
been more beneficial to Mr B, in the short term at least, had he chosen to take TFC at age 
60 than from his entitlement under BSPS. But I can't see that AEON ever brought this to his 
attention.
Age 60 TFC Yearly pension
BSPS (taking TFC) £65,914 £9,887
PPF (taking TFC) £98,890 £10,261
BSPS (without TFC) N/A £14,402
PPF (without TFC) N/A £13,681
So, while I understand that the prospect of pension benefits moving to the PPF was for some 
people a rather daunting prospect, its probably the case that it wasn't as significant as many 
BSPS scheme members believed it to be. And I think Mr B could have met his needs in 
retirement, and retained guaranteed benefits, if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had 
to move with it to the PPF.But, I think a more likely prospect for Mr B was a recommendation that he transfer his funds 
in the BSPS2. So I've looked at whether or not it was viable for Mr B to retire at age 60 and 
take his benefits from BSPS2 then. The exact income from the BSPS2 wasn't known when 
AEON gave its advice. So when looking at probable income Ive assumed it would be slightly 
less than the BSPS projected income at £9,000 a year. I've also assumed that Mrs B also 
retired and drew her occupational pension at the same time (rather than continuing to work 
until she turned 60). Using the figures from AEONs cashflow model shows that Mr and 
Mrs B could have been in the following position:
Approximate income 
requirement£34,800
Estimated BSPS2 yearly 
income£9,000
Income from Mr Bs former 
employers pension£1,503
Mrs Bs occupational pension 
income£9,052
Income shortfall £15,245
So by Mr B taking benefits from BSPS2 at age 60 (and Mrs B retiring at the same time) 
could have had a shortfall in income of around £15,245 a year. But the above table doesn't 
allow for any income from Mr Bs money purchase scheme, or from his TFC entitlement from 
BSPS2. And given that Mr Bs money purchase scheme would most likely have been worth 
in the region of £96,500 (from which he could take TFC of around £24,125) and he had a 
TFC entitlement somewhere in the region of £65,000 from his DB scheme. Then that would 
have given him a total additional fund, on top of the income shown above, of around 
£160,000. And he could have used those funds to comfortably meet any income shortfall 
until he and Mrs B began claiming their full state pensions when they reached age 67. 
So, I'm satisfied that Mr B didnt need to transfer away from the DB scheme in order to 
benefit from early retirement. And I dont think it was in his best interests for AEON to make 
that recommendation.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr B. I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this. However, the priority here 
was to advise Mr B about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. And I dont 
think AEON explored to what extent Mr B was prepared to accept a potentially lower 
retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr B 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme wouldve been 
useful to Mrs B if Mr B died before her. There was also provision for a childrens pension up 
to age 23 if Mr Bs daughter remained in full-time education. I dont think AEON made the 
value of these benefits clear enough to Mr B. They were guaranteed and escalated  the 
spouses pension would also be calculated as if no TFC had been taken. Further, it wasnt 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. And, if the personal pension had underperformed, suffered losses, or Mr B had 
drawn down higher sums from his pension than anticipated, then the amount left over for death benefits could have been significantly reduced. In any event, AEON shouldnt have 
encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
If Mr B genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for Mrs B and their daughter, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think AEON 
could have explored life insurance further. I've seen that Mr B had a significant death in 
service benefit through his employer. But if he wanted an extra sum to cover him after he 
stopped working he could have taken additional cover out on a whole of life basis. AEON 
recorded that it had considered this but dismissed it because the early retirement option was 
better achieved by transferring away from BSPS and that would also provide the required 
death benefits. But, as I've said above Mr B could still have retired early while remaining in a 
DB scheme. And death benefits weren't guaranteed by moving into a personal pension. So I 
think AEON should have explored the option of life insurance more fully, particularly if this 
was genuinely a key objective for Mr B. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr B, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently announced its plans for the BSPS and he was worried his 
pension would end up in the PPF. Hed no doubt heard negative things about the PPF so its 
quite possible that Mr B was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employers solvency and his negative perception of the PPF. But, 
it was AEONs obligation to give Mr B an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
As Ive explained, at the time of AEONs advice, the BSPS trustees had sent its members 
information about the BSPS2 which indicated it was going ahead. So, AEONs advice should 
have properly taken the benefits available to Mr B through the BSPS2 into account. Indeed 
the options being put to the scheme members at the time was a choice between moving to 
the BSPS2 and the PPF. So that should have been a clear indication that Mr Bs pension 
wasnt destined to end up in the PPF. And I think AEON should have made this clear to Mr B 
in order to reduce any concerns he might have had about that. 
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that AEON should 
have reassured Mr B that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr B through the PPF would have still provided a 
significant portion of the income he thought he needed at retirement. And, as explained 
above, unless his investments consistently performed particularly well he was unlikely to be 
able to exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF 
were lower than in the BSPS, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any 
investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to AEON 
recommending Mr B to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
AEONs fees and ongoing advice
Mr B also complained about AEONs fee structure and that its fees had increased in its 
second year of advising him. But I've seen that Mr B had agreed to those fees before AEON 
began its advice process. And the reason for the increase in the second year was because it 
had given Mr B a discount in his first year. So I think AEON applied its fees fairly and in line 
with what Mr B had agreed to before engaging its service.Also Mr B complained that AEONs ongoing advice service went beyond his pension and 
went into other matter such as other forms of insurance. But, when agreeing to AEONs fees, 
Mr B had also agreed to AEON providing advice that went beyond his pension investments. 
So in providing the advice that it did, I think AEON was only giving Mr B advice on the areas 
that he had agreed to. 
Further Mr B was under no obligation to act on AEONs advice. And ultimately it was his 
decision alone to end that relationship with AEON. I don't think AEON did anything to force 
him to make that decision. So any losses Mr B might have suffered because he no longer 
had an adviser wasnt AEONs responsibility.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But AEON 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think AEONs advice was suitable for Mr B. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring 
to a personal pension Mr B was, in my view, likely to obtain lower benefits in retirement. And 
I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when AEON gave its advice, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr B had between 15 and 20 
years to retirement, depending on when he actually decides to retire. So he couldnt have 
known for certain what his needs in retirement would likely be. And I think its unlikely that it 
would have been in his best interests to have stayed with the BSPS when it went into the 
PPF, as its indexation increases were less favourable. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr B 
would have kept the option to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if that 
was what he decided to do at that point. That is, at a time when he would have had a greater 
knowledge of what his retirement needs actually were. Also, Mr B was married, and the 
BSPS2 would have paid Mrs B 50% of his full pension, whether or not hed taken TFC, from 
the date of his death. So, I think AEON shouldve advised Mr B to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against AEON's 
advice if it had recommended he move his benefits to the BSPS2. Ive considered this 
carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on transferring out of a DB 
scheme, against AEONs advice. I say this because Mr B was an inexperienced investor with 
a very cautious attitude to risk and this pension accounted for a significant part of his 
retirement provision. So, if AEON had provided him with clear advice against transferring out 
of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have 
accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think AEON should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Also as I think AEONs unsuitable advice has been a source of distress and inconvenience 
for Mr B, to address that I think it should pay him a further £350 compensation.Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. But, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it 
could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He would like to 
wait for the outcome of the consultation before his complaint is settled. I consider its fair that 
AEON waits for the outcome of the consultation to settle this complaint.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for AEON to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. 
The basic objective of the proposed amendments to the redress methodology still remains to 
put a consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had 
advised them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and its 
proposed updates to the DB transfer redress methodology, Im satisfied that the proposed 
changes will, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr B.
I therefore dont consider it necessary for me to wait for any new guidance/rules to come into 
effect to determine this complaint. 
AEON must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon 
as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9). 
For clarity, while Mr B agreed with AEON that his preferred early retirement age was 60, I 
understand he has no definite retirement plans at present. So, compensation should be 
based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's 
guidance. 
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and AEON has 
received notification of Mr Bs acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes AEON to pay Mr B.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AEON deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. AEON should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require AEON Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
AEON Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require AEON to 
pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
AEON Financial Services Ltd pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on AEON Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman