DRN-1211207
 
The complaint
Mr R says he was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).  
What happened 
Mr R took out a mortgage with HSBC in 1994. At the same time he took out a regular 
premium MPPI policy to cover his repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think 
there was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and 
thought that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr R. 
Mr R disagrees. He says he doesnt remember MPPI being mentioned but his father who 
was with him at the time the policy was sold recalls being told it was a condition of the 
mortgage. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
The sale took place over 25 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little 
information available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what 
information I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
HSBC needed to make it clear to Mr R that he had a choice in taking the policy. 
Mr R hasnt provided any real specific details about the sale which is understandable 
considering the amount of time that has passed. And HSBC havent given us any of the 
documents from the time of the sale. So I dont know exactly what was discussed about 
MPPI or how it was presented.
From what Mr R has told us I think the policy was sold during a meeting. So I think it is likely 
MPPI was discussed and because the policy and the direct debit payments for it 
were completely separate from the mortgage I think its likely that HSBC wouldve made Mr 
R aware that MPPI was optional and that Mr R had MPPI because he freely chose to take it 
rather than anything else.Ive not seen enough to say that he wasnt given a choice or that he didnt agree to buy it.
To put Mr R in the best possible position Im treating the sale as if HSBC advised Mr R to 
take the policy. What this means is that HSBC not only had to provide information about 
MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr R could make an informed choice 
about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend MPPI that the 
policy was suitable for Mr Rs needs and circumstances.
I dont know if HSBC did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr R for the following reasons:
 
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mr R says he had savings he could use to make his repayments or his parents 
wouldve helped if he couldnt work. But there is no guarantee his parents would be in 
a position to help and the policy wouldve paid out on top of any savings and for 
potentially longer, covering his repayments for up to 12 months if he was unable to 
work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job.
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr R in his circumstances 
especially considering he was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his repayments I think 
Mr R wouldve been interested in protecting them.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr R at the time. 
And if he decided he no longer wanted the policy he could cancel it.
 
I also need to consider whether HSBC gave Mr R information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy out. 
I dont know if HSBC did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr R has told us about his circumstances at 
the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if hed been given all the proper 
information.
So this means Mr R isn't worse off as a result of any wrong doing by HSBC.
 
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman