DRN-3104101
The complaint
Miss O complains about information Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard recorded 
against her credit file. 
What happened
Miss O holds a credit card with Barclaycard. In April 2020 she called Barclaycards 
automated service to make her monthly payment, which is her usual payment method. But 
she said it wasnt working, and she couldnt visit a branch as she was shielding because a 
close family member had Coronavirus.  
Miss O tried to contact a staff member to make payment but couldnt reach anyone. And she 
also tried registering for the mobile banking application (app), but didnt have the PINsentry 
card reader needed to do so. She eventually made a payment on 24 April 2020 using 
Barclaycards automated service. But as this was 18 days after her payment was due, 
Barclaycard recorded a late payment marker on her credit file. Unhappy, Miss O complained. 
She said she was also unhappy that Barclaycard had been reporting an incorrect balance on 
her credit file. 
Barclaycard said they were experiencing long call wait times due to the pandemic, but were 
still answering calls. They acknowledged theyd experienced some system issues which 
couldve affected Miss O accessing their automated service. But they said these were 
usually short-term, and there were no records of any issues around the time Miss O tried to 
pay. They accepted Miss O had attempted to pay by other methods, but they said there were 
still other ways she couldve paid, such as through her own bank; using their online or 
telephone banking systems; or setting up a standing order. So they maintained that they 
were right to record the late payment on her credit file, and didnt uphold her complaint. 
But Miss O remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Miss Os complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
while Miss O wasnt able to pay by her preferred method, she was satisfied there were other 
ways she couldve paid. So she didnt think Barclaycard were wrong to record the late 
payment as it was an accurate reflection of the account status. She said that Miss O could 
add a notice of correction to her credit file to explain what happened, which other creditors 
would see. But Miss O remained unhappy, and said Barclaycards actions will impact her 
ability to obtain a mortgage. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main thing for me to decide when reviewing this case, is whether it was fair for 
Barclaycard to record the late payment marker against Miss Os credit file. 
Barclaycard, while having no formal records of any system issues around the time Miss Os 
payment was due, dont dispute that Miss O had difficulties in making her payments through 
their app. And they accept that their call wait times were particularly long. But in order for me 
to conclude it was wrong of Barclaycard to record the late payment marker, Id need to be 
satisfied Miss O not only had the funds available, but that she did everything she reasonably 
could to make the payment to Barclaycard, and was unable to do so for reasons outside her 
control. 
At the beginning of the pandemic, call wait times were particularly long for customers trying 
to contact their banks, and I have no reason to doubt this wouldve been any different for 
Miss O. So I accept that she may have had trouble getting through to Barclaycard. I also 
accept that due to the ill health of a close family member, visiting a branch wasnt an option 
for her. 
Its not entirely clear why Miss O experienced issues in accessing the Barclaycard app. 
Shes said it was the lack of a PINSentry device that prevented her from being able to pay 
through the app; whereas the investigator has spoken about the website stating that the 
PINSentry device is needed to set up the app, rather than being needed to make payments 
through it. However, even if I was to conclude Miss O was unable to make payments through 
the app, it seems there were several other methods by which she couldve paid.
Barclaycards website has a section for existing customers, with a sub-section titled ways to 
pay your bill. And this explains how Miss O could make payments by debit card through 
either online banking or the app. It also mentions how she can set up a direct debit either 
online, through the app, or by post (although this could take up to 10 days which may have 
meant the payment wouldve still been late). But I accept Miss O was struggling to access 
her account online and through the app, so these options may not have been suitable.
But the third section sets out other ways to pay. This states that Miss O can use either her 
own banks online or telephone banking system to pay. And it provides the sort code and 
account number Miss O would need to quote alongside her credit card number in order for 
the payment to reach them. Miss O has said she was unaware of this option and hadnt used 
it before. And I appreciate this may not have been her usual or preferred way to pay. But the 
terms and conditions of Miss Os account sets out clearly, that she has a responsibility to 
maintain her payments each month regardless of how that payment is made. They state:
You must pay at least your minimum monthly payment in sterling by the due date shown on 
your statement every month. Remember  if you only make your minimum payment each 
month itll take longer and cost more to pay off your balance. You can always choose to pay 
more.
They go on to say:
If you miss your minimum payment well add a late payment fee to your account. You can 
miss your minimum payment by not making a payment, by only paying part of your minimum 
payment or by making your payment late (after the due date). If you miss a payment the 
following will also apply to your account.
It then lists a number of things that will take place following a missed payment, including:
your records with credit reference agencies may be affected, meaning it may be harder or 
more expensive for you to borrow in the future. 
In this case, from what Miss O has told us, Im satisfied she had the money to make the 
payment. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that she was unable to do so from her own bank 
account using either online or telephone banking. So as Im satisfied there were other ways in which Miss O couldve paid but didnt, resulting in her payment being late; and that the 
terms of her card made clear the consequences of a missed payment; I find it reasonable for 
Barclaycard to have recorded the missed payment in April 2020 against her credit file.
Miss O has also argued that Barclaycard have recorded her card balance incorrectly on her 
credit file. However, from the screenshot she has provided of her credit file from April 2020, 
the balance matches the balance showing on her April 2020 statement. And Ive seen 
nothing further to suggest its been recorded incorrectly. So I havent upheld this element of 
her complaint either. 
Miss O has requested compensation for the potential impact the missed payment marker 
may have on future credit applications. But as Im satisfied Barclaycard were right to record 
the missed payment, it follows that I dont think any compensation for this is due. So, for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think Miss Os complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman