DRN-3436799
The complaint
Miss F has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC left her without a debit card after she reported 
some payments as fraudulent.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with what happened, so Ill summarise things in brief.
On 17 January 2021, Miss F reported a series of payments as fraudulent. Lloyds raised 
chargeback claims for her and gave her temporary refunds for the payments. Lloyds said 
theyd cancel her card and issue a new one. But they made a mistake, and so Miss Fs new 
debit card didnt get sent out.
Miss F chased Lloyds and complained. On 9 February 2021, Lloyds admitted their error, 
apologised, and made sure her new card was ordered now. They also explained that the 
merchants had responded to the chargebacks and provided evidence that the payments 
were genuine and Miss F had received the goods at her address. So they reversed the 
temporary refunds.
Miss F came to our service. She explained that, without her debit card, shed had to beg and 
borrow from friends and family to pay for things during the pandemic. She asked for a daily 
rate of compensation at £10/day for the first week and £20/day thereafter for each day she 
was without her card. Lloyds offered £100 compensation.
Our investigator looked into things independently and felt Lloyds offer was fair. Miss F didnt 
agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss F and Lloyds a provisional decision on 5 April 2022, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be partially upheld. In that decision, I said:
From what Ive seen, Lloyds raised the appropriate chargebacks for Miss F when she said 
she didnt recognise certain payments. And the merchants in question responded with 
evidence that the payments had been made for goods sent in Miss Fs name and received at 
her address, using her email address and genuine card details. And theyd been made from 
an IP address that Miss F also used for genuine payments and her online banking. Theres 
nothing about the transactions that make me think they were fraudulent. And it doesnt look 
like Miss F disputed this further when the temporary refunds got reversed. So it looks like 
Lloyds handled things correctly there, and that both sides now accept these were genuine 
payments.
Moving to the issue of the card, Lloyds have admitted they made a mistake and apologised. 
And I can certainly understand why it would have been frustrating for Miss F to be without 
her card for some time when she was told it was on the way.
Miss F does not appear to have had any other cards at the time, so while waiting for her new 
card it looks like she really was left without any physical cards. And its worth keeping in 
mind that this happened during a global pandemic. So I can certainly see why it would have 
been inconvenient for Miss F to be without this debit card. I appreciate that shes been 
candid and open with us about how she felt.
I do also need to keep in mind that once Miss F got her card cancelled by reporting fraud, it 
was always going to take some time for her to get a new one. And Lloyds mistake only 
delayed things by a few weeks, which is certainly a significant inconvenience, but not what 
Id consider extreme. And Miss F did still have access to her money by online, mobile, and 
branch banking. Of course, I acknowledge that it would have been more convenient to have 
her card, not least in the pandemic, when  for example  it might have been more difficult to 
use a branch. So I do think Lloyds needed to put things right.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation  to 
acknowledge their error and the impact it had. In terms of the amounts, it worth bearing in 
mind that were not here to fine or punish businesses. And we dont represent either side  
were a less formal alternative to the courts, but were still impartial. We also dont base 
compensation on a daily or hourly rate.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent 
with those. Taking everything into account, I dont think £100 quite reflects the trouble Miss F 
was put to, given that she had to keep chasing Lloyds, and given that this all happened 
during the pandemic where the effects were exacerbated for her. So I think Lloyds should 
pay Miss F a further £100, to bring the total compensation to £200. I think this would better 
reflect the trouble and upset they caused her.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
19 April 2022. But neither Lloyds nor Miss F sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Miss F £200 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman