DRN-3536635
The complaint
Mr S complains about receiving contact from a third party business acting on behalf of
Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society (CBS).
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr S has two accounts with CBS. In 2020 Mr S received contact from a third party business 
(N) that was carrying out market research on behalf of CBS.
Mr S complained to CBS and asked it to ensure his information was deleted by N so no 
further contact was received. CBS told Mr S it had followed his instructions and resolved 
the issues raised.
In May 2021 N contacted Mr S again and asked him to complete a survey. Mr S contacted 
CBS again and raised another complaint. CBS sent Mr S a final response and apologised 
for the contact Mr S received. CBS advised mistakes were made when taking steps to 
update Mr S communications preferences which resulted in him receiving another survey. 
CBS paid Mr S £40 to apologise for its mistake.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought CBS had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S 
didnt agree and asked to appeal. In response to the investigator, Mr S said he had raised 
concerns about the contact with CBS prior to December 2020, the compensation awarded 
wasnt fair, he remained concerned his details were still saved on both CBS and Ns 
systems and that the survey wasnt considered marketing. As Mr S asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the application forms and associated terms Mr S accepted when he opened 
both accounts. I can see that the declarations Mr S accepted allow CBS to share information 
with associated companies, agents and services providers including market research 
agencies. The surveys N forwarded were for market research purposes. Mr S has pointed 
out that the contact preferences noted on the application form dont cover the surveys he 
received so he raised a direct request for his information to be removed. I agree with the way 
Mr S reads the application forms.
CBS has told us its now taken steps to ensure Mr S isnt contacted again by N and asked to 
complete further surveys. Ive seen emails between the organisations and can confirm N 
claims the necessary amendments have been made so Mr S shouldnt receive surveys 
going forward. Mr S hasnt told us about any further contact from N since CBS issued its final 
response in June 2021.
Mr S has explained he wants all his information to be deleted from Ns systems. But the 
terms of his applications say CBS can share his details with market research agencies. I 
agree both CBS and N should follow Mr S clear instructions that he be opted out of 
surveys. As the applications allow CBS to share information with N Im not telling it to take 
further steps to amend the details it holds.
CBS paid Mr S £40 after it failed to take the necessary steps to ensure no further surveys 
were sent to him by N but Im not persuaded that figure is fair. Its clear its very important 
to Mr S that he isnt contacted by third party businesses. And I think Mr S shouldve been 
able to rely on CBS to follow his requests after he complained. I intend to increase the 
award to a total of £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S. in 
my view, that figure more fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr S.
I asked both parties to respond with any additional comments. Mr S responded and said he 
only had one account with CBS, not two as noted in the provisional decision. Mr S also said 
Id failed to take information hed provided in response to the investigators view into account 
and that higher awards had been made in relation to Ns contact. CBS responded to confirm 
it was willing to settle in line with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S responded to say he only had one account with CBS, not two as set out in my 
provisional decision. Id like to apologise to Mr S as CBS has sent us application forms that 
show he had one account with CBS and another with YBS. I confirm that Ive reviewed both 
application forms when reaching my provisional decision and took the declarations 
mentioned into account. Neither Mr S nor CBS has advised how many other accounts he 
may have with the group, but Im satisfied the applications we have on file contain the 
relevant information about how the business uses information. I can see Mr S is right in that 
he had one CBS account at the time. But it doesnt change my view of how to resolve Mr S 
complaint. 
Id like to confirm that Ive read all the available information for Mr S complaint. Mr S sent us 
further evidence in January 2022, including some files that were password protected. Our 
investigator responded in January 2022 and confirmed Mr S hadnt sent passwords to open 
the files submitted, as promised. The investigator requested passwords but they werent 
subsequently supplied. The investigator gave Mr S a further two weeks to respond and 
provide any further information he wanted us to consider before his case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
The investigator went on to send Mr S emails chasing a response and the password 
requested in February and March 2022 but no further contact from Mr S was received. As 
we didnt get a response with the passwords and Mr S had asked to appeal, his case was 
passed to me. The information available shows the investigator sent several requests to 
Mr S for passwords and any further supporting evidence and that the case was reasonably 
referred to me after no response was received. 
I also note the investigator told Mr S we couldnt consider more recent contact from YBS that 
wasnt covered by his original complaint. Mr S said there have been previous complaints about contact from N that had received 
higher levels of compensation. But I considered the specific circumstances of Mr S 
complaint when reaching my provisional decision and increased the award based on the 
information available. The level of compensation focused on the impact of the issues raised 
on Mr S and the levels distress and inconvenience experienced. 
I understand Mr S feels an award of at least £150 or more wouldve been fairer, but I havent 
been persuaded to increase the settlement I reached in the provisional decision. I still think 
£100 reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S and is a fair way to 
resolve his complaint, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct Yorkshire Building Society trading as 
Chelsea Building Society to pay him a total of £100 (less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman