DRN-3627948
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, and who Ill call HSBC, 
failed to process a chargeback claim for him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I dont think HSBC have been unreasonable here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by HSBC, its administered by Mastercard, and 
they set the rules. HSBC didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good 
practice for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
The Mastercard chargeback rules, in these circumstances, say that claims must be 
submitted within 120 days from the date the goods were provided.
But in order for HSBC to issue a chargeback claim for consideration they needed to get 
information on why Mr W believed the claim could succeed. It wasnt sufficient merely to 
have proof of purchase as the chargeback reason dictates the sort of evidence they need to 
request from Mr W and provide to the scheme administrators.
Ive reviewed HSBCs system notes that detail their correspondence and conversations with 
Mr W and I cant see he provided them with sufficient evidence, within the 120 days allowed, 
to make a claim practical.
Mr W first contacted HSBC about the issue in early November 2021. The system information 
shows that attempts were made to gather more information to enable HSBC to submit a 
successful claim. Ive seen copies of letters, text messages that were sent, and call logs 
detailing the requests made by the business. But I cant see that the relevant information 
was provided in time, and I dont think HSBC were therefore, unreasonable not to process a 
chargeback claim as it seems, in the absence of information to support the claim, it would be 
likely to fail.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman