DRN-2720554
The complaint
Miss M complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
treated her unfairly in the exercise of its discretion relating to pension benefits accrued by 
her late father.
What happened
Miss Ms father (who I will call Mr M) passed away suddenly and unexpectedly in July 2019. 
At the time of his death Mr M held uncrystallised pension savings that were held in trust by 
Royal London. When he died Mr M was unmarried.
Royal London was notified of Mr Ms death by a person who said she was his partner. I will 
call her Ms W. I understand that Miss M, and her two siblings, were estranged from Mr M at 
that time, and were unaware of his death until some time later.
Under the rules of the pension scheme Royal London was provided with discretion, given the 
relationship circumstances of Mr M, to decide to whom it should pay the pension benefits he 
had accrued. After considering representations from Ms W, and from Mr Ms children, 
Royal London decided to pay the full benefits to Ms W.
Miss M considers that decision to be unfair. She has complained that there is no evidence 
that Ms W was financially dependent on her late father. And she says that by the time of his 
death the relationship had broken down. So she considers that Royal London should have 
exercised its discretion to divide the pension benefits between Ms W and Mr Ms children 
and grandchildren. 
Royal London didnt agree with Miss Ms complaint so she brought it to this Service. The 
complaint has been considered by one of our investigators. He thought that Royal London 
had reasonably exercised its discretion and acted in line with the scheme rules. So he didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld.
Miss M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Miss M and by Royal London. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The circumstances behind this complaint are extremely sad. And I would like to start by 
expressing my condolences to Miss M, and to all those who have been affected by her 
fathers death.
Mr M died suddenly, without leaving a will. And he also did not provide Royal London with an 
expression of his wishes in terms of directing where any pension benefits should be paid. So 
Royal London undertook an investigation into Mr Ms circumstances before deciding how his 
pension benefits should be distributed.
I have looked carefully at the rules of the pension scheme and what they say about how 
Royal London should consider potential beneficiaries in circumstances such as these. The 
rules require Royal London to make a payment to one, or more, of the following parties;
Anyone nominated by the member in writing before their death
The members spouse or civil partner
The members parents and grandparents or their children
The members dependents
Any person entitled to a share of the members estate in their will
The members legal personal representatives
Given that the late Mr M was unmarried, and had no dependent children, the rules define a 
dependent as someone who was;
Financially dependent on the member
Financially interdependent with the member
Dependent on the member because of physical or mental impairment.
Given that Miss M was the daughter of Mr M, it seems clear that she fit the categories of one 
of the parties that Royal London could make a payment to. And I think it reasonable to say 
that same would apply to her siblings. Royal London also made the assessment that Ms W 
fitted the criteria of being a dependent.
Ms W provided Royal London with some evidence that was used to inform its decision that 
she was a dependent of the late Mr M. She showed that they had been registered at the 
same address for council tax purposes for the past five years, and that address was 
recorded as where Mr M died. And she provided copies of her bank statements that showed 
Mr M making regular monthly payments to her account right up until his death. From that 
information Royal London concluded that Ms W was financially interdependent with Mr M.
I think it is important here that I explain that financial dependency is different to financial 
interdependency. Miss M has provided evidence of Mr Ms earnings in the years before his 
death. And I would share her conclusion that it was unlikely that he earned enough to 
provide for both himself and Ms W. So that would seem to suggest that Ms W, who earned 
far more each year, wasnt financially dependent on Mr M. But I would tend to agree with 
Royal London that the evidence of their cohabiting, and the regular payments made by Mr M 
to Ms W, suggested at least a degree of financial interdependence.The rules of the pension scheme do not provide any guidance to the trustees as to how they 
might decide to which parties, or in what proportions, the pension benefits should be paid. 
Here the trustees decided that the entire benefits should be paid to Ms W as a dependent of 
the late Mr M. I cannot reasonably conclude that decision fell outside the rules of the 
scheme.
I appreciate that Miss M feels that she has at least as strong a claim on those pension 
benefits as Ms W. And given the scheme rules it wouldnt have been incorrect for the 
trustees to decided to pay some, or all, of the pension benefits to her and her siblings. But 
that decision fell entirely to the discretion of the trustees. I am not able to say that a 
reasonable exercise of that discretion, in line with the rules of the scheme, is incorrect.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Miss M. But Royal London has acted 
entirely within the rules of the scheme in deciding to pay the pension benefits to Ms W. It 
follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman