DRN-1427360
The complaint
Mr U complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) havent upheld a claim he made to 
them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr U but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr U made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
breach of contract
Im not persuaded there has been a breach of contract here as the contract explains:
"It is at our discretion if we decide to cancel the plan. If we cancel the plan we will refund you 
in full."
And also explains that:
Examples of reasons we may cancel your plan include evidence of previous faults (repaired 
or not) found at health check or in service or MOT history
Within only a few days of the inception of the warranty Mr U complained about engine noise, 
an Engine Management Light being displayed and gear changes being harsh. It seems a 
timing chain will need to be fitted at a cost of several thousand pounds.
It seems more likely than not to me, given the very brief timeframe and the garages opinion, 
that those faults would have been developing or present before Mr U entered into the new 
warranty agreement. 
So, I dont think Barclays have been unreasonable when rejecting Mr Us complaint as I 
dont think a breach of contract has been demonstrated.
They have offered to pay £800 and to refund a £45 diagnostic fee as they felt their 
representative may have made comments that led Mr U to believe they would do so. I think 
that was very reasonable of them in the circumstances and I dont think they need to take 
any further action.
misrepresentation
If Mr U was led to believe something that wasnt true, and which meant he would not have 
agreed to enter into the agreement if hed known the correct facts, I would ask Barclays to 
put him back in the situation he would have been in if he hadnt been given that information.
There may have been a misrepresentation if Mr U was told the warranty would cover him if 
the car passed the health check or if he didnt receive the policy, that detailed what wasnt 
covered, until after hed signed up for the deal. 
Here, if I agreed thered been a misrepresentation I would ask the business to refund the 
warranty cost to put Mr U back in the position he would have been in if the misrepresentation 
hadnt happened. But thats already been done. So, regardless of whether a 
misrepresentation has happened, there would be no further redress available to Mr U.
I dont think that disadvantages him as the breakdown would have happened irrespective of 
whether he chose to take out an extended warranty or not.
the health check
Mr U is upset that his car passed the health check the business asked him to complete but 
that the merchant is still refusing to cover him for the repairs the car now requires.
I understand why Mr U might be concerned about that but, having reviewed the contract, I 
am persuaded that the purpose of the health check was to exclude the 90-day wear and tear 
limitation and that it wasnt for the purposes of diagnosing all pre-existing faults with the car.
So, I dont think Barclays were unreasonable when rejecting Mr Us section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman