DRN-3468354
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way in which The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) handled his 
application to open a basic bank account. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr R sent a handwritten letter to the customer service department of 
RBS, explaining that he wanted to open a basic fee-free account or, if possible, a current 
account. He explained that he had a post office account, into which his benefits were paid, 
but that he needed an account with a direct debit facility. 
Mr Rs letter explained too that he had no passport or driving licence but that he could 
provide proof of address from the local authority. It said too that he had received advice from 
the Money Advice Service. Mr R had no internet, email or telephone.  
RBS did not respond to Mr Rs letter, so he wrote again (and in similar terms) at the end of 
February 2021. RBS says that it replied to this second letter on 18 March 2021, enclosing an 
account application form and telling Mr R that he should send it to his nearest branch. Mr R 
says that he received no reply. 
In September 2021 Mr R was able to open a bank account with a different provider. He 
contacted RBS to complain about the treatment he had received when he tried to open an 
account with it. RBS acknowledged that it should have replied to the first application and 
offered Mr R £50 by way of compensation. Mr R did not think that went far enough and 
referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought that the banks offer was fair. In reaching that conclusion, she found 
that RBS had responded to Mr Rs second letter. Mr R did not agree and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no real dispute about Mr Rs first letter to RBS. He received no response to it. There 
were in my view several indications in that letter that Mr R was in a vulnerable position. It 
mentioned that he had been evicted the previous year, that he was on benefits, seeking 
financial advice and had limited documentation. There was therefore more reason than usual 
to ensure that his letter was dealt with. 
Mr R wrote again on 24 February 2021. He says, and I accept, that he received no reply. 
The bank says however that it did respond on 18 March 2021. It has provided a copy of the 
letter it sent. It is addressed to the address which Mr R provided to the bank and to this 
service. It says that it encloses an application form and it includes contact numbers for help 
with the application. 
I think it is more likely than not that RBS did reply to Mr Rs second letter as it says it did, but 
that, for whatever reason, Mr R did not receive that response. If Mr R did not receive the 
banks letter, it is not the fault of RBS. I would add that I would not necessarily expect RBS 
to have followed up on the application. Mr R may have decided not to pursue things any 
further, and I dont believe that the bank could safely assume the letter had not been 
received. 
I note as well that Mr R was able  albeit with some difficulty  to open a new bank account 
before his post office account was closed.
For these reasons, I believe that the banks offer of £50 by way of compensation was 
reasonable in the circumstances.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything 
further to resolve Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman