DRN-3945332
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling their Buildings Insurance 
claim.
All references to Ageas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Building works
Its natural Mr and Mrs T would have wanted matters to be concluded swiftly to 
minimise the financial impact on their business. But Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me Ageas agreed for Mr and Mrs T to appoint their own contractors to 
complete works. 
Insurers benefit from pre agreed rates with its contractors. When it can offer to 
complete repairs on an accepted claim, but a customer chooses to use their own 
contractors, the insurer is entitled to provide settlement at what it cost them. 
Ageas provided a scope of works and Im persuaded it could offer to carry out the 
work itself. And as Ive set out above, Im not persuaded Ageas agreed for Mr and 
Mrs T to use their own contractors. So, I dont think its acted unreasonably here by 
paying Mr and Mrs T the amount it did.
Disposed contents
The disposed contents list details the items in question were not salvageable. I can 
also see from correspondence Ageas confirmed the items were beyond repair.
There are no photos of the items prior to disposal, and Ive not seen any other 
information that persuades me Ageas conclusion the items were beyond repair is 
obviously wrong.
I also consider if the items had been salvageable, it would likely have been in Ageas 
interest to repair rather than replace the items. So, Im not persuaded it has made an 
error in disposing of the items.
Underinsurance
Its not in dispute the contents sum provided by Mr and Mrs T didnt accurately reflect 
their value at the time when the claim was reviewed. Mr and Mrs T have said the 
policy has been renewing each year with the original value provided when first 
insuring the property.
The relevant law in this case is The Insurance Act 2015. This says the insured (Mr 
and Mrs T) must make a fair presentation of risk to the insurer  meaning they must 
disclose all material information which they know, or reasonably ought to know of.
The Insurance Act 2015 sets out remedies available to an Insurer for cases of 
underinsurance. This includes contracting out  which Ageas have done here by 
proportionally settling the claim. Ageas have pointed to a term in the policy which 
says it may proportionally settle a claim based on the sum insured amount in 
circumstances such as these.
However, based on what Ive seen, I dont think this was a reasonable approach to 
take. Ageas is required to highlight a disadvantageous term, and while it has 
provided a renewal document and policy booklet containing information about 
underinsurance, the term isnt prominent or brought to the readers attention. In both 
cases the documents are large, and the underinsurance information is not presented 
until halfway through the document. So, Im not persuaded Ageas have fulfilled the 
transparency requirements set out in the act by sufficiently highlighting the policy 
term.
Our service has asked Ageas to provide information on what premiums it wouldve 
charged for the contents, had the correct sum been declared at renewal. We also 
asked Ageas to detail why a further £10,134 was deducted from the settlement it 
offered to Mr and Mrs T. But it hasnt provided this information.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, if Ageas would have charged an additional premium 
to insure the correct contents sum, it would be entitled to proportionately settle the 
claim based on the amount it would have charged compared to what Mr and Mrs T 
paid. 
Regarding the deduction of £10,134. Whilst the Investigator has asked Ageas for 
information about this, its not been raised as a specific complaint point. Once Ageas 
has recalculated the settlement, in line with what Ive set out below, if Mr and Mrs T 
wish to do so, they will be entitled to raise a new complaint. And may bring it to our 
service if they remain unhappy with Ageas response.
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen and set out above, I dont think Ageas has calculated the 
settlement it has offered to Mr and Mrs T fairly.
Ageas should recalculate the settlement for the contents in line with the relevant law, The 
Insurance Act 2015. If these calculations come to a higher amount than already paid to 
Mr and Mrs T, Ageas will need to pay the difference. 
It should also add 8% simple interest, from the date of the original settlement to the date it 
makes payment to Mr and Mrs T.
In the event the calculations come to less than the settlement paid already to Mr and Mrs T, 
Ageas will not be required to take further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.To put things right, I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman