DRN-3796521
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Ms N were sold the policy in November 1995 at the same time as arranging the 
mortgage. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr N for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms N disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
Although Mr and Mrs N originally complained about Nationwide, saying they had been sold 
PPI in a meeting by Nationwide, Mr N says he now recalls signing for it during a meeting 
with a financial adviser. Mrs N says she doesnt remember going to see the financial adviser 
and thinks she signed the forms at home. To be clear, if they are saying that they were sold 
PPI by someone other than Nationwide, then we wouldnt be able to take this complaint 
against Nationwide any further. However, it seems apparent that Mr and Mrs N have no 
particularly strong recollection of events, which isnt surprising after all this time. Nationwide 
has taken responsibility for the sale and says that, based on the limited information 
available, the sale was probably made in one of its branches.
Nationwide no longer has any paperwork from the sale, which is also not surprising given 
how long ago it took place. However, that does make it more difficult to investigate the 
complaint. In reaching my decision I have looked at the evidence we do have, together with 
what I consider is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs N say they were led to believe that they had to take out the PPI if they wanted 
the re-mortgage to be agreed. Whilst I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs N have provided their 
genuine recollection of events, as Ive already mentioned, Im not persuaded that they have 
any strong memory of the sale.
From what we know of Nationwides sales processes at the time, the PPI would normally 
have been presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would lead me to 
conclude that something different happened in this case.
The policy was set up just to cover Mr N, which suggests there was some discussion about 
the PPI with Mr and Mrs N deciding how to tailor it to best suit their needs. And we know that 
the mortgage application form being used by Nationwide at the time gave yes and no 
options to either accept or decline the policy.
Based on the available evidence, I consider that Mr and Mrs N most likely decided to buy the 
PPI, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
This was a non-advised sale, so Nationwide didnt have to ensure that the policy met Mr and 
Mrs Ns needs. But it did need to provide sufficient information for them to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the policy was right for them.
Mr N would have received some sick pay from his employer. But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr N would have received full 
pay for. Mr and Mrs N say they had some savings but having the policy would have allowed 
them to retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult 
time. So I think they had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Nationwide could have provided more information about the PPI, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr N wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, he didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have been 
excluded under the policy. As I consider that Mr and Mrs N had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change 
their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done 
wrong, so there is nothing that Nationwide needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do 
not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman