DRN-1463331
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc has dealt with her financial difficulties. She 
is particularly concerned the bank may send debt collectors which will impact on her 
husband's mental health.  
Mr L is helping Mrs L with her complaint.
What happened
Mrs L had a loan with the bank for £11,000. This was repayable at £245.77 a month. In early 
2019, Mrs L left her job as she was experiencing difficulties at work. She found other work 
but this was at a reduced income which meant she could no longer afford the loan. 
She contacted the bank, who put a freeze on the interest charged and agreed a reduced 
payment arrangement for three months. After the payment arrangement came to an end Mrs 
L notified the bank she didn't think her circumstances would ever change. So it agreed to 
pass her account to recoveries - which meant no further interest and charges would accrue - 
and arrange for the account to be closed. It explained this would take a couple of months as 
it was required to go through certain steps before it could default and close the account. 
Mrs L complained as she hadn't been aware arrears would continue to accrue while she was 
on the payment arrangement. And she was unhappy with the length of time it would take for 
the account to close; she believed this should have been done when she originally contacted 
the bank about her change of circumstances. The bank was satisfied it had treated Mrs L 
fairly and so it didn't uphold her complaint. 
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint either. She was satisfied the bank had notified 
Mrs L that arrears would continue to accrue and that it was right for the account to be 
defaulted. But she also asked the bank to commit to informing any debt collection agency of 
the difficulties within the household, to ensure that household visits wouldn't take place. 
Mrs L didn't agree the outcome was fair. And Mr L didn't believe the bank had treated them 
as being a vulnerable household in accordance with the regulator's guidance. They remain 
concerned they will get visitors to their house in relation to this debt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders are required to treat those in financial difficulty with forbearance and due 
consideration. There is no set way they are required to do this, even for vulnerable 
customers. But they should take any vulnerabilities into account. 
I can see from the records provided that when Mrs L notified the bank of her change in 
circumstances it took steps immediately to see how it could assist. It agreed to freeze 
interest and agreed a reduced payment arrangement of £100 a month.  I consider these to 
be positive steps and meet the requirement to treat a customer with forbearance. Mrs L says she wasn't notified that arrears would continue to accrue. But this information is 
recorded in its call notes with her and in the follow up letter she was sent. I know Mrs L says 
she didn't receive this, but the vast majority of correctly address mail is correctly delivered. 
So I am satisfied she was informed of this. 
When Mrs L contacted the bank again at the end of the payment arrangement, it was at that 
time she notified it that there was unlikely to be a change in her circumstances for the 
foreseeable future. So it was right for the bank to proceed on the basis that Mrs L was never 
going to be in a position to clear the loan within its term, as she disagreed with the loan 
being restructured. Therefore the only option left was to close the account. I know Mrs L was 
unhappy that this would take time, but the bank is right that there are certain formalities that 
need to be followed. And although Mrs L was concerned arrears would continue to accrue I 
don't consider this would have impacted her credit file anymore than it was going to be - the 
account was to be defaulted. 
Overall, I am satisfied the bank has treated Mrs L fairly with regard to the loan and her 
financial difficulties. 
Finally, I turn to Mrs L's concerns about having visitors to her house. As I understand it the 
bank hasn't sold her debt and there are no immediate plans to do so. And I'm not aware that 
it has said it would arrange a household visit to discuss the debt. I understand the real 
concern Mrs L has. But a visit is usually a last resort; most debt collection activity is 
conducted over the phone or by written correspondence. So even if the debt is sold on, that 
doesn't mean it will immediately result in a household visit. Nevertheless, I would urge the 
bank to ensure it notifies both its own recoveries department and any possible future debt 
owner of the household difficulties around receiving visitors. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman