DRN-2774505
The complaint
Mr D complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, lent to 
him irresponsibly.
Mr D is represented by a third party.
What happened
Using information Evergreen has provided then I was able to create a brief loan table. 
Loan Approved Amount Type of loan repaid
1 21 April 2016 £200 Payday
(2 repayment dates)7 June 2016
2 10 June 2016 £500 Instalment x 6 7 December 2016
3 8 December 2016 £700 Instalment x 6 24 September 2018
Evergreen has provided its loan agreements and the credit search results it carried out 
before each loan. 
In Evergreens final response letter to Mr D, dated 11 September 2020, it outlined the steps 
it had taken to ensure that the loans were affordable to him. And it included a table which set 
out Mr Ds declared income for each loan which was £2,400 for loans 1 and 2 and £2,132 for 
loan 3. It also included the categories of declared expenditure for rent/mortgage, credit, 
food, transport, other. These were very similar for each loan application and amounted to 
£1,250, £1,100 and £1,200 for loans 1 to 3 respectively. 
Evergreen went on to explain that it had verified his income and was satisfied with that. And 
it explained to Mr D that: 
On your loan applications we increased the monthly expenditure that you input, on 
the basis that your credit report highlighted different expenditure than you had 
disclosed, and to bring you in line with the average expenditure listed on the 
Common Financial Statement. Having taken this extra measure to ensure the loan 
was affordable for you, you still displayed enough disposable monthly income to 
meet the monthly repayments in full.
These increases were as follows: loan 1 - £428, loan 2 - £500 and loan 3 - £0. And 
Evergreen calculated that still Mr D was able to afford these loans. They were approved. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ds complaint and thought that the credit report results 
provided by Evergreen showed such an extensive amount of debt that even allowing for the 
declared and enhanced expenditure figures, it was clear that Mr Ds regular indebtedness 
each month exceeded his income by some way. So, he did not think that Mr D was able to 
afford the Evergreen loans. He thought that it should put things right for Mr D for each of the 
three loans. 
Evergreen disagreed and made some points:
Evergreens checks were proportionate 
at the earlier stages in a lending relationship the lending decisions were automated
customers require quick and efficient service
it would be wholly impractical and unrealistic for an underwriter to sit and review 
every line of a credit file for every loan
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Evergreen needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Evergreen 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable, but I do not consider that this applies to 
Mr Ds circumstances as he took three loans which is not enough to create a pattern. 
Evergreen was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make payments on 
time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that. I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information 
provided in this context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
CONC does not stipulate that any potential lender must carry out a credit search with a 
credit reference agency (CRA). The requirement is to carry out a creditworthiness 
assessment and the emphasis is that its from the borrowers perspective, not a risk 
assessment from the lenders perspective. And where a lender has obtained detailed 
information about the applicants credit history, then it is envisaged that this information 
would form part of that creditworthiness assessment. 
In Mr Ds situation, the CRA documents Evergreen has sent to us all bear dates which 
coincide with the loan application dates and are contemporaneous documents. I do not 
agree that Evergreen was not expected to review every line. These documents are easy to 
search for specific details and/or are not difficult to review. What would not be appropriate is 
to obtain them and ignore the contents. 
Evergreens argument is that the early loans for a customer are done by way of a procedure 
which is automated and there is no human involvement. Adding that into my review of this 
complaint, bearing in mind the basis of it (irresponsible lending), I think that Mr Ds CRA 
information was relevant and important information. If the information would not have made 
much difference to the decision to lend then it adds little. So, it being reviewed was a 
necessary part of the creditworthiness assessment as Evergreen were in possession of it. 
However, going through the Evergreen CRA documents then I conclude that Mr D had many 
loans, of varying types, and the high cost short term ones he seemed to take sequentially. A 
large part of his debt was a Hire Purchase (HP) agreement for over £27,000 which may have 
been a car. And the repayments just for that were £470 a month. It had commenced in 
February 2016  before loan 1. Analysing the CRA for credit commitments Mr D had on 
21 April 2016, when he applied for loan 1, I come to a similar conclusion to our adjudicator. 
Mr D had a great deal to pay to creditors each month, and it, plus his normal expenditure, 
exceeded his income.
Over and above that, Mr D clearly paid loans off and then reapplied either with the same 
lender or with another lender in sequence. Many overlapped and when paid off were 
replaced with another. The CRA documents show this sequential borrowing clearly. This 
picture was of a person who was not in a position to sustainably repay any of the loans 
applied for with Evergreen, and I think it was irresponsible of Evergreen to ignore the 
information it had and approve the loans anyway.
I refer to the FRL Evergreen issued in which it demonstrated, using a table and by 
explanation to Mr D, that it had relied on his credit history records to raise the expenditure 
figures significantly for loans 1 and 2. That tells me that the CRA information had been 
reviewed and used as part of its lending approval procedure  whether automated or not. 
And so that seems to contradict the indication given when responding to our adjudicators 
view that drilling into the detail of the CRA information was not practical or realistic. I say this 
because in its FRL it relies on having done that to justify increasing Mr Ds expenditure 
figures.
Evergreen has said to Mr D that it declined loans with him which demonstrated its robust 
procedure  but that decline was for one loan in 2019 which post-dated the 2016 loans. So, 
its irrelevant. Evergreen has referred to lending less than Mr D had applied for  this related to loan 3 
where he had asked for £1,000 but Evergreen had approved £700. This does not detract 
from the points made earlier in this decision in which Ive made it clear that Evergreen had a 
rich seam of information to provide it with Mr Ds true financial position. And still it lent to him: 
the reduced sum on one loan application does not demonstrate responsible lending. 
I uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Evergreen should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it never lent to Mr D as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr D in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Evergreens liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
Evergreen ought to do as follows: 
 refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on loans 1 to 3; and
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the three loans from Mr Ds credit file; and
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and Evergreen Finance London Limited, 
trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, should do as I have outlined above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman