DRN-3289532
The complaint
Ms K complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (trading as Homeserve) damaged her car while 
they were unblocking her drains.
What happened
Ms K had a Homeserve policy with Aviva to cover plumbing and drainage problems. 
On 19 November 2021 Aviva sent an engineer to Ms Ks home to clear a blocked drain. Ms 
K says the engineer pulled a hose up her driveway, through the gap between her car and 
her neighbours wall.  A few days later she discovered her car had been scratched. 
On 2 December 2021 Ms K complained to Aviva that the scratches had been caused by their 
hose being dragged along the side of her car. Aviva didnt accept that they were responsible 
for the damage, so Ms K brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ks complaint. He said that, having reviewed the evidence, 
he wasnt satisfied that a rubber hosepipe was the most likely cause of the damage. And, as 
Ms K hadnt told Aviva about it until two weeks after their engineers visit, he felt it could 
have been caused by something else. 
Ms K asked for an ombudsman to review her case. She said she wasnt happy with the way 
Aviva had handled things because nobody had come to see the car  they simply relied on 
the photos shed sent them. She said she wasnt lying about Aviva having caused the 
damage - and she shouldnt have to badger her neighbour for CCTV footage to prove this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how upsetting it must be for Ms K to discover her car was scratched. Shes told 
us that, although she noticed the engineer bringing the hose past the side of her car, she 
didnt like to question what he was doing because she was alone in the house at the time 
and doesnt like confrontation. She says she was distracted by other things that happened 
that day, so didnt notice the scratches until a few days later. 
Ms K has provided photos showing the scratches on her car and the position on the 
driveway where it had been parked. Shes also provided photos of a similar van that visited 
her home more recently, showing the kind of hoses Avivas engineers use. Ive examined 
these photos in detail.
Ive seen two different accounts about what happened. I appreciate Ms K feels very strongly 
that she wouldnt lie about what she saw  and I dont have any reason to doubt what shes 
told us about the engineer pulling the hose past her car. But Avivas engineer said it wasnt 
possible for this to have scratched the car. He said the hose would have been on the ground 
because it was heavy. 
Having reviewed the photos, I can see that the damaged area of the car wouldnt have been 
visible from Ms Ks house, because it would have been facing her neighbours wall. I havent 
seen whether Ms Ks neighbour has CCTV footage confirming that the hose came into 
contact with the side of the car. I appreciate Ms K feels she shouldnt have to ask for this. 
But in the absence of supporting evidence confirming what happened at that side of her car 
during the engineers visit, I have to consider whats most likely to have happened. 
The photos Ive seen show a number of scratches in three different areas towards the back 
of the car. Aviva said this isnt consistent with damage caused by a rubber hose being pulled 
past the side of the car, because the scratches go in multiple directions. They also said their 
engineer laid the hose along the floor before pulling it towards the drains.
Having examined the photos closely, Im not persuaded that they show the scratches were 
most likely to have been caused by Avivas engineer. I say this because there are quite a lot 
of scratches, running in various directions. In the absence of expert evidence on this point, I 
dont consider the most likely cause of the damage to have been a rubber hose pulled past 
the car. 
As Ms K didnt see the damage straight away - and didnt tell Aviva about the damage until 
nearly two weeks after their visit - I also have to consider the possibility that something else 
might have scratched her car during that time. And in this case, I do consider it more likely 
that the scratches were caused by something else. 
For these reasons, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Aviva are liable 
to pay for the damage to Ms Ks car. I note that theyve offered to reconsider their position if 
Ms K is able to provide further evidence, such as a copy of her neighbours CCTV footage. I 
think thats fair and reasonable.
I realise Ms K feels she shouldnt have to provide evidence  and that Aviva should have 
examined her car. But Im satisfied that the photos she provided are clear. And as there was 
a delay of nearly two weeks between Avivas visit and Ms K reporting the damage, I find it 
more difficult to say thats when the damage was caused. So, although I realise Ms K will be 
disappointed with this decision, I wont be directing Aviva to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman