DRN-4497825
The complaint
Mrs G is complaining about Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn. She says they 
were irresponsible in lending to her. Mrs Gs complaint has been brought to us by a 
representative but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with her.
What happened
In September 2018, Mrs G took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to finance 
the purchase of a vehicle. She borrowed £9,200 and paid a deposit of £400  the cash price 
of the vehicle was £9,600. The agreement required Mrs G to make 59 monthly repayments 
of £345.30. Mrs G had some problems with her payments during early 2020 but then took 
advantage of a payment holiday and later settled the agreement early, in May 2022.
In February 2023, Mrs G complained to Moneybarn. She said she didnt think theyd done 
appropriate checks before deciding to lend to her.
In response, Moneybarn said theyd carried out a credit check before lending to Mrs G, 
considering factors such as her current borrowing levels, repayment history and any adverse 
markers. They said although Mrs G had previous defaults and County Court Judgments 
(CCJs), the most recent had been 14 months prior to her application and her existing 
borrowing levels were low. 
Moneybarn said they also checked Mrs Gs monthly average income to her payslips and 
applied a calculation to this to decide on a maximum affordable repayment figure. This 
calculation allowed for appropriate non-discretionary expenditure and the figure calculated 
was around £365  on that basis Moneybarn said the £345 monthly repayments were 
affordable for Mrs G. Mrs G wasnt happy with this response so she brought her complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Gs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said he didnt think Moneybarn had done proportionate checks  but if they had, theyd 
have been able to fairly decide the agreement was affordable for Mrs G. Mrs G disagreed. 
She said our investigator shouldnt have taken into account child benefit and tax credits in 
his calculation of her income, and commented on various aspects of her expenditure. Mrs G 
asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint  and it came to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 November 2023. In that, I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as 
CONC what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In 
summary, a firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the 
agreement without having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other 
obligations, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Mrs Gs credit file; and
checked Mrs Gs payslips to verify her income.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including 
the size and length of the loan, and what Moneybarn found. At around £21,000, the total 
amount Mrs G would have to repay was substantial, especially in comparison to her 
stated income, and the term of the loan was five years, so it was important the checks 
were thorough. 
Moneybarn havent provided a copy of the credit report they reviewed. And because of 
the time thats passed, Mrs Gs copy of her credit report gives limited information about 
what Mrs Gs credit file would have shown at the time. But Moneybarn have told us they 
noted Mrs G had nine defaults and three CCJs, with the total default balance being over 
£8,000, and the total CCJ balance being over £7,000. There was no indication that these 
balances were decreasing at all. It also appears that Mrs G had no active credit lines at 
the time of her application. So although the defaults and CCJs were more than a year 
ago, there was limited evidence that Mrs G would be able to manage a new credit 
agreement. And the large outstanding amounts on the old accounts suggested she might 
be struggling to make repayments. I think what Moneybarn said they saw on the credit 
report should have given Moneybarn cause to do additional checks.
Moneybarn said they verified Mrs Gs income by checking her payslips from June, July 
and August 2018. They said her average net monthly income was £1,460.66. Moneybarn 
have told us they did a calculation using that income figure  but they havent told us what 
that calculation was. Its clear they didnt attempt to estimate Mrs Gs expenditure. 
Given Mrs Gs credit history, the size of the loan, and the significant amount of the 
repayments as a proportion of Mrs Gs income, Im not satisfied Moneybarn did enough to 
check that the repayments would be affordable for Mrs G. 
If Moneybarn had done proportionate checks, what would they have found?
Proportionate checks would have involved Moneybarn finding out more about Mrs Gs 
income and expenditure to determine whether shed be able to make the repayments in a 
sustainable way, rather than assuming her income was sufficient.
Ive looked at statements for Mrs Gs bank accounts for the three months leading up to 
her finance application. Mrs Gs also provided additional information about her 
circumstances at the time which Ive taken into account. Im not saying Moneybarn 
needed to obtain bank statements as part of their lending checks. But in the absence of 
other information, bank statements provide a good indication of Mrs Gs expenditure at 
the time the lending decision was made. 
Having considered this additional information, I think if Moneybarn had done 
proportionate checks, theyd have seen Mrs Gs income was significantly higher than 
theyd realised, at an average of around £2,100 per month. This takes into account Mrs 
Gs earnings but also child benefit, and child tax credit. In terms of Mrs Gs non-
discretionary expenditure, she was paying around £665 per month for rent and council 
tax, £800 for utility bills, food and other essentials, £125 per month for TV and phone 
services, around £200 per month for car insurance and petrol, £16 per month for bank 
charges and £40 per month for school-related costs. 
Mrs Gs told us that on top of this she paid cash for childcare, but her cash withdrawals 
were limited, at around £100 per month, so Ive not been able to evidence this. Taking 
everything into consideration, Ive estimated Mrs Gs monthly non-discretionary expenditure was around £1,850. Adding on the monthly repayments for the car takes this 
figure up to around £2,200. Against income of £2,100 per month, its clear Mrs G wouldnt 
have been able to make the repayments in a sustainable way. And this is supported by 
the fact that Mrs G started using a credit card a few months after taking out the finance 
with Moneybarn.
On balance, Im inclined to say if Moneybarn had done proportionate checks, they 
couldnt have fairly decided to lend to Mrs G. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. So my final decision is unchanged from those 
findings  Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint because I dont think Moneybarn should have 
lent to Mrs G.
Putting things right
Because I dont think Moneybarn should have approved the loan, I dont think its fair for 
them to charge any interest or other charges under the agreement. But Mrs G had use of the 
vehicle for around 43 months so its fair she pays for that use. There isnt an exact formula 
for working out what amount would reflect a customers fair usage of a car. But in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in Mrs Gs case Ive thought about the amount of interest charged 
on the agreement and Mrs Gs overall usage of the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount 
Mrs G should pay is a total of £160 per month, i.e. £6,880. To settle Mrs Gs complaint, 
Moneybarn should do the following:
Refund all the payments Mrs G has made in excess of £6,880, adding 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
If Mrs G has paid less than £6,880, Moneybarn should arrange an affordable and 
sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Gs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
If Moneybarn consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they 
should provide Mrs G a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Mrs G can 
reclaim that amount, assuming she is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as 
Moneybarn need to take the steps outlined above to settle the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman