DRN-4439163
The complaint
Miss J and Mr R are unhappy with what Amtrust Europe Limited did after they made a claim
on their landlords legal expenses and rent guarantee insurance.
What happened
On 9 December 2022 Mr R contacted Amtrust and said a Section 21 eviction notice had
been served on his tenant. That had expired on 30 November but she was refusing to leave.
He wanted assistance from the policy to pursue eviction proceedings. Amtrust referred the
matter to panel solicitors who advised the notice was undated and there was a real
possibility the claim would fail on that basis. They said Mr R should issue a new notice.
Amtrust said its policy covered legal action to recover possession of a property where a
tenant didnt perform obligations set out in the tenancy agreement. But in this case, as the
notice was invalid, the tenant wasnt in breach of their obligations. And Miss J and
Mr Rs policy with it expired on 2 December 2022 and theyd renewed with a different
provider. So any breach of a new notice would fall outside of its period of cover. In addition,
it was a requirement of the policy a claim must have reasonable prospects of success.
Based on the advice from the panel solicitors it didnt think that was the case here.
Our investigator accepted the Section 21 notice was invalid. But, as defined in the policy, an
insured event was the first in a series of incidents that might lead to a claim. In this case she
thought that was the issuing of the notice as thats when Miss J and Mr R had started
repossession proceedings. She also noted the tenant had fallen behind on rent payments
from September 2022 which was also within Amtrusts policy period. So she thought it
should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
Amtrust didnt agree. It said the tenant wasnt in breach of any obligation until the expiry of a
valid Section 21 notice. An insured event wouldnt have taken place until then and that
hadnt happened during its period of cover. And the claim was made on the basis the tenant
hadnt left at expiry of the notice period and not on the basis of any rent arrears. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Amtrust has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Miss J and Mr Rs policy. Under Tenant
Eviction and Pursuit of Rent Arrears the policy says it provides cover for advisers costs to
pursue Legal Action against a Tenant or Guarantor to recover possession of the Insured
Property where the Tenant fails to perform his obligations set out in the Tenancy Agreement
relating to the rightful occupation of the Insured Property. It also covers costs to pursue A
Tenant or Guarantor for Rent arrears owed on a tenancy relating to the Insured Property
once possession has been gained.
However, the policy says thats provided the Insured Event takes place in the Period of
Insurance And it defines Insured Event as the incident or the start of a transaction or
series of incidents which may lead to a claim or claims being made under the terms of this
insurance.
The policy also says for cover to be provided there must be more than a 50% chance of
winning the case and achieving a positive outcome. A positive outcome includes, but is not
limited to, recovering the amount of money at stake, enforcing a judgment or achieving an
outcome which best serves Your interests. The assessment of Your claim and the prospects
of its success will be carried out by an independent Adviser. If the Adviser determines that
there is not more than a 50% chance of success then We may decline or discontinue
support for Your case.
In this case Miss J and Mr R issued a Section 21 notice in September 2022. I dont think the
issuing of that notice would constitute an Insured Event as defined in the policy. Section 21
notices are issued without there having to be any fault on the part of the tenant. And Miss J
and Mr R dont appear to have known the tenant wouldnt leave when the notice expired.
I think its reasonable to say the Insured Event in this case occurred following the expiry of
that notice when the tenant made clear they werent going to leave the property. That would
be in line with the definition of Insured Event the policy contains because, regardless of the
fact the notice appears to have been invalid, Miss J and Mr R would have known then they
might need to make a claim on their insurance.
I asked Miss J and Mr R to confirm when the tenant told them they wouldnt be leaving the
property. However, while they said the tenant in fact left at the start of April 2023 they didnt
provide information on what happened in December 2022. But given the claim was reported
to Amtrust on 9 December 2022 I think its most likely it was on or shortly before that date
the tenant confirmed they wouldnt be leaving. And their cover with Amtrust expired on 2
December 2022. So I think Amtrust was right to conclude an insured event hadnt take place
during its period of cover.
Even if the tenant did tell Miss J and Mr R prior to 2 December 2022 she wouldnt be leaving
the property the advice from the panel firm was the Section 21 notice was invalid as it was
undated. And a further notice would need to be issued. I appreciate that advice was from a
paralegal and Im not clear whether she was supervised by a qualified lawyer as wed
expect. Nor does her advice explicitly say the claim wouldnt have reasonable prospects of
success as a result. So Im not clear Amtrust was entitled to turn down the claim on the basis
the policy requirements in relation to that hadnt been met. 
But the policy doesnt cover costs arising from your failure to take any action recommended 
by Us or the Adviser to recover possession of the Insured Property as promptly as possible. 
Given there was clear advice from the panel solicitor that a new notice needed to be issued I
think Amtrust was in any case entitled to decline funding for the claim until that new notice
had expired. 
Its not clear Miss J and Mr R did then incur any costs. I asked them whether that was the
case but they didnt provide any information on this. And while I understand the tenant left
with rent unpaid thats a different claim to the one Miss J and Mr R contacted Amtrust about
in December 2022. If they believe those issues form part of an insured event which arose
during their period of insurance with Amtrust theyd need to raise a new claim in relation to
them.
Alternatively, if they think that should be the responsibility of the insurer that took over from
the start of December 2022, they could make a claim to it if they havent already done so.
But for the reasons Ive explained I dont think theres further action Amtrust needs to take on
their existing claim.Responses to my provisional decision
Neither side responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any responses to my provisional decision, I dont have any reason to 
alter the conclusions I set out in it. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
6 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman