DRN-3825716
The complaint
Mr H complains that AWP P&C SA unfairly turned down a claim on his mechanical 
breakdown insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H bought a car which no longer covered by the manufacturers guarantee. At the time he 
also chose to purchase the manufacturers extended comprehensive warranty. The 
extended warranty is provided by AWP.
A few months later Mr Hs car broke down, so he had it recovered to a manufacturing garage
to be inspected and claimed on his policy with AWP. AWP liaised with the manufacturing
garage and after extensive diagnostics it was decided the car needed a new engine. AWP
then turned down the claim for a new engine and said the car hadnt been serviced in line
with the manufacturers recommendations.
Mr H didnt think this was fair and complained. He said hed bought the car in good faith and
had thought it had been serviced in line with the manufacturers recommendations, so didnt
think it was his fault a previous owner had the car serviced late. He also said AWP would
have known this from the start as they work with the manufacturing garage and if theyd told
him this he wouldnt have gone ahead with the diagnostics, which he said had now amount
to around £4,000.
AWP reviewed the complaint and rejected it. They said the car had been overdue an oil
service by around one year, during the time the car had travelled around 3,000 miles past its
required service interval. Mr H didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our
service, he said AWP could have checked the service history when he bought the car and let
him know they wouldnt have covered it.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 31 October 2022 where I said:
The term AWP has relied upon to decline Mr Hs claim says:
1. a) Care of the vehicle - you must keep your vehicle in an efficient
and road worthy condition and regularly service it in accordance with the
manufacturers recommendations and genuine parts, or parts of
equivalent specification must be used.
Ive looked at this term and I dont think it applies here, I say that because it refers to you,
which is defined in the policy as The owner or user of the insured vehicle as specified on
the confirmation of cover. This therefore refers to Mr H, and considering the overdue
service occurred before he bought the car this term wouldnt apply in this case.
In any event the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says its
unreasonable for an insurer to decline a claim unless the claim is connected to the breach.
Our investigator asked AWP whether the engine failure was due to the overdue oil service
and if it was, for an explanation on how the damage occurred as the car was only overdue
its service by around 3,000 miles. AWP didnt respond and has previously just given generic
reasons about how not servicing a car can affect an engine but hasnt given specifics about
this failure and why going over the service interval by 3,000 miles would make a difference.
Im therefore not satisfied AWP has shown its fair and reasonable to turn down Mr Hs claim.
As I dont think AWP should have turned down Mr Hs claim, Ive thought about what needs
to happen to put him back in the position he would have been in if AWP hadnt incorrectly
declined his claim.
Mr H said his car had been with the manufacturing dealer and hasnt been repaired. As he
couldnt store it with the garage any longer, hes had it recovered to his parents house
where its been stored. Mr H said hes not paid insurance or tax on the car but has had to
buy a cover to prevent it deteriorating. Hes also said his partners parents bought her a
small car as they needed one to get around, so hes shared this car with his partner.
As I dont think AWP should have declined Mr Hs claim, AWP should pay the claim for Mr
Hs replacement engine, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Mr H
has also paid the for the diagnostics to his car and has provided an invoice for £4,053 for it.
The policy terms say it will cover diagnostics if a claim is accepted, therefore it follows that
AWP need to pay Mr H £4,053 as this is what he paid for diagnostics. Mr H also provided an
invoice for the recovery of his car for £189. As hes only paid this as AWP declined his claim,
AWP should also pay Mr H this amount. AWP should also add 8% simple interest to both
payments to compensate Mr H for not having the money. It should be calculated from the
date Mr H paid the invoices until the date of settlement.
Mr H hasnt had use of his car for around a year, and I think its fair and reasonable for AWP
to compensate him for this. Ive noted that Mr H had shared use of his partners car during
this time, so Ive taken this into account when considering how much to award for loss of
use. Courts generally award £10 a day when someone doesnt have use of another car, as
Mr H had shared use of his partners car, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for
AWP to pay 50% of this amount. So, AWP need to calculate Mr Hs loss of use at £10 per
day from the date of claim until the date it pays his claim, and then pay 50% of this amount
to Mr H.
I understand Mr H said his partners parents bought this car so he and his partner could get
around. However, Mr H didnt pay for this car so its not something Im able to compensate
him for. Even if he had paid for it though I wouldnt award the full amount the car cost. This is
because the car will have a re-sale value and so any compensation would need to be the
difference between what Mr H paid for it and how much he sells it for, assuming a fair market
rate at the point of sale is lower than what Mr H paid for the replacement car. Also, for the
tax and insurance on the replacement car I wouldnt award those even if Mr H paid them.
This is because Mr H would always need to pay for road tax and insurance and Mr H hasnt
paid these for his car so he hasnt incurred a cost he wouldnt otherwise have had.
Ive also considered that Mr H has bought a cover for his car while its off the road to protect
it while it was off the road. While I understand Mr Hs reasons for buying the cover, Im not
persuaded it was essential. So, I wont be telling AWP to pay him what he paid for the cover.
I have though considered the unnecessary distress and inconvenience AWP has caused by
incorrectly declining Mr Hs claim. And when taking into account Im telling AWP to pay Mr
Hs loss of use, Im satisfied £250 is a fair and reasonable amount for AWP to pay to
compensate Mr H for having to arrange the recovery and storage of his car and for the
distress of thinking he wouldnt be able to get it repaired. Therefore, AWP should also pay
Mr H, £250 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused.Mr H responded to my provisional decision and said due to the cars service record being 
stored electronically he had no way of checking it in more detail than he had. He also said 
the warranty had been transferred to him from the previous owner and that AWP could have 
checked the service records. Mr H also said it was likely due to his car not being used for so 
long that it would have additional damage and said it would only be fair for AWP to cover this 
damage, along with the recovery of his car to repair it. 
AWP responded and didnt accept my provisional decision. They said Mr Hs car had 
suffered a bent conrod, had swarf in the engine and that it had a suspected injector failure, 
but this hadnt been proven. 
I asked our investigator to let AWP know that following the additional information I was still 
inclined to uphold this complaint and that if Mr Hs car had suffered additional damage from 
not being used then it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to cover this. I asked for any 
additional comments by 18 November 2022, but AWP hasnt responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP has provided some notes from the repairing garage on Mr Hs car from when it was 
trying to diagnose the fault, along with a picture of a bent conrod. From AWPs comments 
and the garages notes it appears the garage suspect Mr Hs car suffered hydraulic lock due 
to a faulty injector. While AWP has explained what the fault is most likely to be, theyve not 
shown how the fault is connected to the car going over a service by 3,000 miles. Im 
therefore not satisfied AWP has shown the breach of not servicing the car in line with the 
manufacturing guidelines is connected to the failure of the injector. It follows that Im 
therefore not persuaded to change my decision that AWP shouldnt have turned down Mr 
Hs claim. 
Regarding Mr Hs point about his car suffering additional damage due to not being repaired. 
While I let AWP know I thought it would be fair to cover the additional damage, having 
reviewed this it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a finding in this decision. This is 
because if the car is repaired and its deemed to have additional damage due to the delays 
in dealing with the claim, then it would be a new issue which AWP would need to have the 
opportunity to respond to first. Mr H also said he'll need to pay for recovery again to have the 
car repaired. If Mr H does need to pay for recovery to have his car repaired, then he would 
also need to raise that with AWP separately as well.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AWP P&C SA to:
1. Pay Mr Hs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions
2. Pay Mr H £4,053 for the diagnostics for his car
3. Pay Mr H £189 for recovery of his car
4. Pay Mr H 50% of £10 per day loss of use, calculated from the date of claim until the
date his claim is paid
5. Pay Mr H £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused
For 2 and 3 above AWP P&C SA also need to add 8% simple interest to the amount it pays,
calculated from the date Mr H paid these until the date payment is made.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman