DRN-3101827
The complaint
 Mr S complains that Tesco Bank, trading as  Tesco Personal Finance plc, unfairly put a 
default on his credit file. He would like this removed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr S told us other creditors havent defaulted his accounts. However,  I can only 
consider the actions of Tesco Bank. Just because other creditors have acted in a 
certain way doesnt mean Tesco Bank has to do so.
Tesco Bank accepts that it never explained to Mr S the implication of being on a 
repayment plan and the possible impact on his credit file. It sent  Mr S a default 
notice in June 2019 but at the same time it also sent a letter confirming details of a  
repayment plan. This letter stated , as did subsequent letter for later plans, that no 
action would be taken on the account as long as the repayment plan was kept to. So, 
I can understand why Mr S didnt expect  a default put on his credit file in 2019
I have carefully considered the information  Mr S gave Tesco Bank. From that its 
clear that  from a few months of taking out his loan he couldnt manage the 
repayments of £357 per month, he also  had several repayment plans with other 
creditors. He agreed a reduced payment of £140 per month in May 2019  increasing 
this to £200 per month in 2021. I have seen no evidence  Mr S was able to get his 
account fully up to date until his complaint came to us. I am inclined to agree with 
Tesco Banks view that its likely a default would have been put on Mr S credit file at 
some point. And to change the date of the default now would be to Mr Ss detriment
Mr S  told us if he had known a default would be put on his credit file, he would have 
found the means to keep the account up to date. But if  he  were able to do this, I 
dont know why he didnt. I dont think Mr S could reasonably have assumed he could 
continue making reduced payments on an open-ended basis with no consequence.
Mr S  told us that the default on his credit file has impacted on his ability to get a 
mortgage, but he hasnt evidenced this. Companies consider a range of factors when 
offering mortgages so other factors may have influenced any mortgage decisions.
Looking at the management of Mr Ss account I dont think Tesco Bank were wrong 
to default the account., so I cant reasonably ask Tesco Bank to remove the default.  I 
do think the default should have occurred later ,for example when Mr S concluded his 
first repayment plan but then needed a second one. But I think it would be 
unreasonable to ask Tesco Bank to alter the date of the default to a later date as that 
would be to Mr S detriment. I do think Tesco Bank should have explained in its 
phone calls the impact of a repayment plan and the fact a default had been recorded. 
It has already paid £50 compensation and offered a further £150  for this which I 
think is reasonable.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Tesco Bank, trading as Tesco Personal Finance plc should pay Mr 
S a further £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of not having explained 
the impact of a repayment plan to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman