DRN-3091426
The complaint
Miss R complains about a repair that was carried under her car insurance policy. The policy 
is underwritten by EUI Limited (EUI)
Any reference I make to EUI also includes its agents.
What happened
Miss R contacted EUI to have a small chip in her windscreen repaired. She says that the 
technician came, and when he attempted to repair the glass, he caused another chip which 
she says led to a much bigger crack, and a full replacement windscreen was then needed.
Miss R says that when the fitter came it was a very hot day, she says he came across as 
though he couldnt be bothered to do the repair and told her the repair would fail. She says 
she feels as though the fitter failed the windscreen repair on purpose, he lied about the 
timescales for a replacement windscreen, he didnt sanitise her keys and he used her car air 
conditioning unit with the windows down.
Miss R says she has lost out because shes had to pay a £25 excess, and now has to pay 
£115 excess for a new windscreen.
To settle the complaint, Miss R says she would like EUI to pay for the cost of having a new 
replacement windscreen fitted.
EUI responded to Miss Rs complaint and upheld it in part. It said that it is possible that a 
windscreen can crack when attempting repairs, so it didnt uphold this part of Miss Rs 
complaint. However, it said it had provided feedback to the technician regarding the 
sanitising of her car keys and agreed to refund the £25 excess she paid for the failed repair.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss R, but they didnt uphold her complaint. They 
said that they could see that EUI had followed its own procedures when carrying out the 
repair  and repairs can and do sometimes fail. They thought EUI had acted fairly by 
agreeing to refund the £25 excess that Miss R had to pay.
Miss R didnt agree. She said that the engineer didnt want to do the job, and he created the 
damage to cause a full windscreen repair. And he lied about the timescale for a windscreen 
replacement.
Because Miss R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint. 
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Miss R, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Essentially, Miss Rs complaint stems around the failed repair to her windscreen. So Ive 
looked at all the information provided to me by EUI to determine what process it should have 
followed when carrying out the repair, and what it says in its terms of business about repairs.
The terms of business from the repairer states:
3. In the course of repair, glass may crack beyond repair through no fault of our 
technician. You acknowledge that risk. If that happens, we will ask if you would 
like us to replace the glass. If you wish to proceed with replacement, you agree 
that paragraph 4 below shall apply to that service. We will take into account any 
excess you may have already paid to us.
4. Payments up front and in part. You agree to be responsible for the full cost of our 
glass repair and replacement work on your vehicle. In making arrangements to 
deliver our service to you, we incur business costs. You agree that we can 
immediately charge (i) for or in respect of these arrangements or costs and/or (ii) 
an up front part payment in respect of our glass service.
5. If you are making an insurance claim in respect of our service, we are entitled, 
immediately upon any cost or charge as aforesaid being incurred or made, (i) to 
obtain any excess, or other portion of the insurance claim which your insurance 
policy obliges you to pay or fund for or from your own account, from you and (ii) 
to apply such excess or portion against any such cost or charge.
Ive looked closely at these when determining if EUI has done everything it needed to when 
attempting the repair on Miss Rs windscreen. The terms of business are clear in stating that 
some repairs fail  and that this isnt necessarily the fault of the technician. While I 
appreciate that Miss R believes that the technician failed the repair on purpose, I havent 
seen any evidence that supports this. And I cant see any reason why a technician would 
purposefully cause more damage. I imagine that working with glass can be unpredictable, 
and so its understandable that repairs cant always be guaranteed, as is the case here. 
Miss R has said that the technician let her know that the repair could fail, but I dont draw 
anything negative from this. Its possible that his expertise in fitting glass, meant that due to 
the hot weather conditions, or the location of the chip meant that in his experience, it was 
more likely to fail. And Miss R agreed to continue with the repair anyway, knowing that this 
was a possibility. 
EUI has sent this service some guidance that its technicians use when trying to get a 
windscreen to the correct temperature in order to carry out the repair. I can see that it 
suggests moving the car into the shade, open the windows and to use the cars air-
conditioning system where the windscreen is hot. Miss R has confirmed that the technician 
did all of these things, so this leads me to believe that the technician did what they could to 
attempt a successful repair. 
Miss R states that she didnt see the technician checking the temperature of the windscreen 
prior to repairing it, but just because she didnt see it, I dont think I can fairly say this means 
the technician check this prior to carrying out the repair. Based what Ive said above, I dont think it would be fair of me to find that EUI did anything 
wrong when the repair failed. Or that the technician didnt take the appropriate steps to 
ensure they had the best chance at being successful.
Miss R has confirmed that she agreed to have the full windscreen replaced after the repair 
failed, and so she would be liable to pay for the full excess for repairing the windscreen. 
Because I havent found anything fundamentally wrong in what the technician did when he 
attempted the repair, I wont be asking EUI to refund the excess she paid for the 
replacement. 
EUI has acknowledged that its technician may not have sanitised her car keys and has 
refunded the £25 excess for the repair by way of an apology  it has also provided feedback 
to the technician. I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Miss R was disappointed that the technician told her it would take 45 minutes to 
have a new windscreen fitted. But she later found that it would actually take longer than this. 
While I can understand it would have been frustrating for Miss R to have received conflicting 
information, and I appreciate this has inconvenienced her and disrupted her day, she was 
given the correct information prior to her visit to the repairer, and so she could have 
rearranged this for a more convenient time for herself if shed have wanted.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman