DRN-2693454
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and about the compensation that he was offered when the car was rejected.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr G under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Car Finance 
that he electronically signed in January 2020. There were some issues with the car which 
were repaired under warranty but the car broke down in June 2020 and was recovered to a 
garage. The garage identified an engine fault and estimated a repair cost of £1,700. 
Mr G complained to Oodle Car Finance in July 2020 and it arranged for the car to be 
inspected by an independent expert in September 2020. The inspection report concluded 
that the failure was due to a previous failed repair carried out prior to the finance inception. 
The dealer wanted to arrange its own inspection of the car but that didnt happen. Oodle Car 
Finance agreed, in November 2020, that Mr G could reject the car and it offered to refund his 
deposit of £2,000 and the monthly payments totalling £316.44 that hed made under the 
agreement since the car broke-down (all with interest) and to pay him £100 compensation 
for any distress or inconvenience that had been caused.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He predominantly agreed with the 
outcome provided by Oodle Car Finance but said that there had been a significant failure in 
the process resulting in it taking far longer than it should and that the time, stress and efforts 
of Mr G hadnt been appropriately acknowledged. He recommended that Oodle Car Finance 
should: pay Mr G £200 for the difficulties faced; confirm rejection of the car and end the 
agreement; ensure his credit file is unaffected; and return his deposit and payments made 
after the date of failure (with interest).
Mr G has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded in 
detail and has described the issues that hes experienced and the distress and 
inconvenience that hes been caused. He says, in summary and amongst other things, that 
he should receive compensation as follows: deposit of £2,000; payments from June 2020 to 
cessation of £316.44; recovery and taxi costs of £19; original diagnosis cost of £250; storage 
costs of £500; engine stripping cost of £250; loan car costs of £1,274; time spent dealing 
with this of £780; professional advice of £1,295; and inconvenience and stress goodwill 
payment of £250. He also says that his possessions that were in the car with a value of £300 
to £400 have been lost  but Oodle Car Finance says that the only item left in the car was a 
dog grooming table which it has returned to Mr G.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Oodle Car Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr G - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Mr G was more than seven years old, had been driven 
for 57,707 miles (though Mr G disputes the mileage) and had a price of £4,990;
the car broke-down in June 2020 and Oodle Car Finance arranged for it to be 
inspected by an independent expert  the experts report concluded that the failure 
was due to a previous failed repair carried out prior to the finance inception;
the dealer wanted to arrange its own inspection of the car which delayed Oodle Car 
Finances response to Mr G - but that inspection didnt happen and Oodle Car 
Finance agreed, in November 2020, that Mr G could reject the car and it offered to 
refund his deposit of £2,000 and the monthly payments totalling £316.44 that hed 
paid under the agreement since the car broke-down (all with interest) and to pay him 
£100 compensation for any distress or inconvenience that had been caused;
our investigator thought that its offer didnt appropriately acknowledge the time and 
stress caused to Mr G and his efforts in dealing with this issue so he recommended 
that Oodle Car Finance should increase the compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that he was caused to £200;
I consider that to have been a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Gs complaint but 
hes described in detail the additional compensation that he says he should receive 
and hes described the issues that he had with the dealer;
Mr G clearly has very strong feelings about the way that the dealer has responded to 
his issues with the car  but his complaint to this service is about Oodle Car Finance 
and it isnt liable under the hire purchase agreement for the dealers customer service 
after the car was supplied to him;
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Oodle Car 
Finance to pay to Mr G any of the additional compensation that hes claimed for the 
reasons set out below;
I dont consider that Mr G has provided enough evidence to support his claims for 
reimbursement of recovery and taxi costs of £19, original diagnosis cost of £250 and 
engine stripping cost of £250  I would expect to see receipts for the recovery and 
taxi costs and invoices with proof of payment for the garage costs but they havent 
been provided;
nor do I consider that Mr G has provided enough evidence to show that hes paid 
£500 to the garage for it to store the car;Mr G has claimed loan car costs but Oodle Car Finance has offered to refund to him 
all of the monthly payments that he made under the agreement for the period after 
the car broke-down  and Im not persuaded that it would also be fair and reasonable 
for it to be required to reimburse him for loan car costs for a period when he wont 
have made any payments for the car;
hes claimed reimbursement for his time spent dealing with the issues with the car 
and his complaint  this has clearly been a drawn-out process that has taken a large 
amount of time for Mr G but I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Oodle Car Finance to compensate him for that time;
we offer an informal dispute resolution service and try to resolve complaints by 
customers about financial businesses by looking at what we consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances  I dont consider that there was any need for Mr G 
to obtain professional advice to bring his complaint to this service  it was his choice 
to do so and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Oodle Car Finance to reimburse him for the cost of the professional advice that hes 
claimed; 
these events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr G but I agree 
with our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to 
pay him £200 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience  and Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
increase that compensation to £250;
Oodle Car Finance has returned a dog grooming table that was left in the car to Mr G 
and says that there were no other possessions of his left in it  Im not persuaded 
that Mr G has provided enough evidence to show that he had left any other 
possessions in the car so I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Oodle Car Finance to take any further action about those possessions; and
the car has been collected on behalf of Oodle Car Finance and it has agreed that 
Mr G can reject it  I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for it to take the 
actions set out below.
Putting things right
Oodle Car Finance has agreed that Mr G can reject the car and the car has been collected. I 
find that it should also end the hire purchase agreement, if it hasnt already done so, at no 
cost to Mr G.
Oodle Car Finance has agreed to refund the deposit of £2,000 that Mr G paid for the car, 
with interest, and to refund the monthly payments that he made under the agreement after 
the car failed in June 2020, totalling £316.44, and to pay interest on those payments. I 
consider that to be fair and reasonable.
It also offered to pay £100 to Mr G for any distress and inconvenience caused but I find that 
it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay him £200 to compensate him for that distress and 
inconvenience. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show that Oodle Car Finance has recorded any adverse 
information about the hire purchase agreement on Mr Gs credit file. But I consider that it 
should ensure that it hasnt done so.
Other than these actions, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Oodle 
Car Finance to reimburse Mr G for any of the other costs that hes claimed, to pay him any 
other compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and I order Oodle Financial Services 
Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement at no cost to him (if it hasnt already done so).
2. Refund to Mr G the deposit that he paid for the car.
3. Refund to Mr G the monthly payments totalling £316.44 that he made under the 
agreement after the failure of the car in June 2020.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Ensure that no adverse information about the agreement is recorded on Mr Gs 
credit file.
6. Pay £200 to Mr G to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Oodle Car Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Oodle Car Finance must give Mr G a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman