DRN-4430302
The complaint
Ms S complains that a timeshare product was mis-sold to her and her partner in 2014. 
Because the purchase was financed in part with a loan from Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, she 
says that it is responsible, along with the seller.
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc is now Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, which in this case trades as 
Novuna Personal Finance; Ill refer to it as Novuna.
Ms S has been represented by a claims management business, which Ill refer to as F. 
Where I refer to Ms Ss submissions and arguments, I include those made on her behalf.
What happened
In December 2014 Ms S and her partner entered into an agreement with Anfi Sales SL for 
the purchase of membership of the Anfi Beach Club, a floating timeshare week and 
membership of an exchange scheme.
Most of the purchase price was provided by a ten-year £11,970 loan from Novuna to Ms S. 
In October 2019 F wrote to Novuna to say that the timeshare product had been mis-sold. 
Specifically, F said:
Ms S had been told that she would have access to a range of holidays, but had never 
been able to use the timeshare product, due to a lack of availability.
The sales process had been pressured, and Ms S had not been able to consider the 
documents before agreeing to the purchase.
The commission paid to the seller by Novuna had not been disclosed as it should have 
been.
Proper affordability checks were not carried out.
It does not appear that Novuna responded to the claim, and so F referred it to this service in 
June 2021. When Novuna did answer the claim  in August 2022  it said that it had been 
brought more than six years after the sale and was therefore out of time. But it noted as well 
that Ms S had used the timeshare and the exchange scheme. She had signed a declaration 
to say that the sales process had been fair. And Novuna summarised the checks that had 
been carried out to ensure the loan was affordable.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld, for broadly the same reasons as Novuna had given. Ms S did not 
agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Affordability
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case.
Novuna has provided information about the checks it carried out. Ms S has however 
provided no evidence that she has had any real difficulty in meeting the loan payments, or 
that she has ever raised that with Novuna. In the circumstances, I am not persuaded that I 
should uphold this part of Ms Ss complaint.
Time limits
Part of Ms Ss complaint concerns a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Novuna said that any such claim would be out of time under the Limitation Act 1980, 
because it was made more than six years after any cause of action could have arisen.
By the time Novuna answered the claim, in August 2022, it was nearly eight years since Ms 
S had bought the timeshare. But she had made the claim in October 2019, well within the six 
year time limit. It would not in my view be fair to rely on time limits here, especially since the 
six year limit expired after Ms S had made her claim but before Novuna answered it.
I note that the sale contract was governed by Spanish law, and different time limits might 
therefore apply. Whether or not that is the case, I do not believe that it would be fair for 
Novuna to rely on delays for which it was partly responsible.
Our own rules include a similar time limit of six years, which generally runs from the date of 
the event giving rise to the complaint and ends when the complaint is referred to the 
respondent. Ms Ss section 75 complaint is that Novuna did not agree to meet her claim. 
That did not happen until the claim was declined, in August 2022.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the timeshare product. The loan 
agreement records that the seller was Anfi Sales, which Im satisfied is a reference to the 
company with which Ms S contracted.
I must therefore consider what F has said about the alleged misrepresentations.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract.
Ms Ss contract with Anfi Sales was subject to Spanish law, but I have approached this case 
on the assumption that Spanish law is not materially different from English law.
F has said that Ms S had not been able to use the timeshare product, contrary to what was 
said at the time of sale. I have however seen no evidence of any failed attempt to book 
holiday accommodation or any correspondence with Anfi Resorts (the club manager) or the club itself indicating any difficulties. I have however seen correspondence between Ms S and 
the timeshare exchange scheme indicating that, contrary to what she has said, she did use 
the timeshare product. In the circumstances, I do not believe there was any 
misrepresentation as alleged.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any linked transaction.
I am satisfied that the timeshare agreement in this case was a linked transaction (that is, 
linked to the loan agreement) within the meaning of section 19 of the Consumer Credit Act. 
There was a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, and the timeshare agreement was financed 
by the loan.
An ombudsman does not have the power to make an order under section 140B. I must 
however take relevant law into account in deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
And I have the power to make a wide range of awards  including, for example, requiring a 
borrower to refund interest or charges, and to write off or reduce a loan. I am not persuaded 
however that I should do so here.
Ms S says that she was rushed into agreeing to buy the timeshare and did not have time to 
read the documents. I dont accept that. At the time of the sale, she signed a declaration 
saying that the sales presentation was conducted in a friendly and helpful manner and that 
she was happy to proceed. Thats not consistent with being pressured into signing the 
agreement.
Further, in line with EU and Spanish law, Ms S had fourteen days to withdraw from the sale 
and loan agreements, if she wished to do so. Had she and her partner felt that they had 
been unduly pressured into the sale, I think they would have exercised that right.
Ms S says too that she was not provided with details of any commission paid to Anfi Sales. 
She does not suggest that she asked about commission, but I have no reason to think she 
would not have been told what it was if she had done so.
In any event, Anfi Sales wasnt acting as Ms Ss agent, but as the seller of the timeshare 
product and club membership. It also introduced Novuna to Ms S, but it does not appear to 
me that it was Anfi Sales role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to 
give advice or information on that basis.
Conclusion
It is not for me to say whether Ms S has a claim for misrepresentation against Anfi Sales, or 
whether she could bring such a claim against Novuna. Nor is it for me to say whether a court 
would make an order under section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act. They are however 
matters which I must take into account in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Having done that, I believe that Novunas response to Ms Ss claims was 
reasonable.Novuna accepted my provisional decision, but Ms S did not respond to it within the time I 
indicated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any more evidence or arguments following my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. In saying that, I stress that I have 
reviewed the complaint in full before reaching my final conclusion.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman