DRN-3730397
The complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay Ltd lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In August 2015 Mr C opened a credit card account with NewDay, trading as Aqua. He had
an account limit of £300, which was increased to £1,300 in January 2016 and then to £1,900
in May 2016.
In September 2017 Mr C opened a separate credit account with NewDay, this time trading
as Marbles. It had an initial credit limit of £300, making the total credit available to Mr C from
NewDay £2,200. A further increase in the credit limit of this card in April 2018 brought his
total credit limit across both cards to £2,700.
Mr C says that NewDay shouldnt have lent to him because he couldnt afford it. He says if
NewDay had done the checks on him which it should have done it would have realised he
had a lot of debt and couldnt afford any more.
NewDay says that it did all the necessary and proportionate checks, and these showed that
Mr C could afford the credit that was extended to him.
Our adjudicator thought that NewDay shouldnt have increased Mr Cs lending after he
opened the Aqua account in August 2015. They thought that because Mr C had used the
card for cash advances many times since it was opened that this should have prompted
NewDay to do more checks before it lent more money to Mr C. The adjudicator considered
that Mr C was so indebted elsewhere that NewDay should have realised he would struggle
with any more debt. Our adjudicator thought that NewDays checks showed that Mr C had
very little disposable income and would have struggled to make his repayments on the card
in a sustainable way. Our adjudicator said that NewDay should refund any interest and
charges paid by Mr C after this point, including on the Marbles card he opened in September 
2017.
As NewDay did not agree, the case was passed to me to make a decision.
Having reviewed the complaint I considered that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld in full, 
rather than just from the first credit limit increase after August 2015. I wrote to both parties 
explaining my position and invited comments before I made my final decision.
Mr C agreed with my decision. NewDay said that it had no further comments to make, 
although it did not formally accept my provisional decision. Consequently, I have to make a 
formal final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Mr Cs complaint. 
Having done so, I think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld from the opening of the first 
account. I will explain my decision.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could
afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment
amounts, Mr Cs borrowing history and his income and expenditure.
NewDay says its credit check results didnt show anything negative to suggest it would have
been unreasonable to have provided Mr C with the credit. It says it asked him about his
income and it also had information about other credit he had elsewhere and that none of this
caused concern.
NewDay has provided copies of the results of these checks. I dont think they are as
reassuring as NewDay asserts. At the point of application Mr Cs credit file showed that he
had previously defaulted on seven other accounts to a total of £9,300. Indeed, one of these
was a previous NewDay credit card. However, those defaults appeared to be at least 28
months before Mr Cs application in August 2015 and his total unsecured lending balance
elsewhere appeared to only be £200 at the point of application. Checks showed that he had
settled all arrangements to pay with other creditors  one of these by means of a settled
payment arrangement, which indicates that Mr C had trouble paying it. However, the checks
didnt show any results for recently settled payday loans or results for any arrears or defaults
in the preceding six to 12 months respectively. It is important to note that this didnt mean
there were no arrears or defaults on Mr Cs record  only that checks hadnt returned any
results at all.
In many cases it would be acceptable to make a decision on initial lending without
information on payday loans, particularly where other information is reassuring  for example
where information about indebtedness or other risk scores indicate a healthy financial
position. But I think the number of historic defaults apparent on Mr Cs credit check and the
settled payment arrangement ought to have prompted NewDay to make further checks.
NewDay knew it didnt have data about Mr Cs potential payday loans and other arrears.
Even at this early stage in the relationship, given the warning signs, I think NewDay should
have asked Mr C about the defaults and about his recent financial circumstances. Had it
done so it would have realised that Mr C had been in recent financial trouble.
Mr C has provided his credit file for this time. From this I can see that in the months leading
up to his application there was activity on his file which wasnt reflected in the result of the
checks NewDay made. Mr C took a payday loan in March 2014 and fell into arrears with the
repayments in October 2014 until he settled it in April 2015  four months before he took out
the card with NewDay. In July 2014 he took out another payday loan. With this one he fell
into arrears on the loan in September 2014 and he remained in arrears until June 2015 when
he settled the entire loan. On a third loan, Mr C had been in a debt management
arrangement with the business, making only a token payment of £1 a month from December 
2013 to April 2015 when a partial settlement was agreed  four months before he took out
the Aqua credit card.
On the evidence available to me I think it was irresponsible of NewDay to extend even the
small amount of credit provided to Mr C in August 2015. I think if it had done proportionate
checks that it would realised any lending to Mr C was likely to be unaffordable for him. So, Ithink Mr Cs complaint in relation to this card should be upheld from the opening of the
account and not from the point of the first credit limit increase.
To avoid any doubt, I also consider that Mr Cs complaint in relation to his second card  the
Marbles card  should also be upheld for the same reasons given by our adjudicator. I view
the second card, taken in September 2017 with an opening limit of £300, as effectively a
further credit limit increase because Mr C had an existing credit relationship with NewDay.
There is no evidence to suggest that Mr Cs financial circumstances had changed
significantly for the better. He was still in overdraft, still up to or close to the limit on his other
credit cards and his repayments werent making any impact on his outstanding debt. He
continued to take cash advances on credit cards  41 in the year to the point of opening and
he had substantially greater unsecured borrowing - £17,400.
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay ought to have opened either account, I dont think its fair for it to be
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr C should
pay back the amounts he has borrowed. Therefore, if my decision becomes final, NewDay
should:
Rework the accounts removing all interest and charges that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr C along with
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information regarding
this account from Mr Cs credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NewDay should arrange
an affordable repayment plan with Mr C for the remaining amount. Once Mr C has
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be
removed from his credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr C a
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint in relation to both cards in full. I direct NewDay Ltd to pay 
compensation as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman