DRN-2019825
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from BUPA Insurance Limited following a claim 
he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C has a travel insurance policy with BUPA. He is the only person named on the policy. 
He had a heart attack whilst on holiday and was admitted to hospital. After receiving 
treatment Mr C was discharged. The treating doctor said hed be fit to fly after around a 
month. Mr Cs wife mainly dealt with BUPA, but she wasnt named on the policy. 
Mr C, and his wife, raised a number of concerns about the service they received following 
Mr Cs discharge and prior to his repatriation. Those concerns included being promised a 
nurse escort (which BUPA later said wasnt needed), staff not being up to speed with the 
case, issues with arranging the necessary paperwork for Mr Cs return home and that they 
were told not to disclose details of Mr Cs condition to the airline. 
BUPA has offered Mr C a total of £300 compensation. They acknowledged that they raised 
expectations of a nurse escort and apologised that Mr C had felt their claims handlers had 
caused additional stress. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He agreed that BUPA could have managed 
Mr Cs expectations about the nurse better. He also thought that BUPA shouldnt have 
referred Mr C to a GP to complete some of the paperwork and that Mr C shouldnt have 
been told to keep his medical condition from the airline. He thought the total amount of 
compensation should be increased to £500. 
Mr C accepted the investigators recommendations. BUPA didnt and asked an ombudsman 
to review the complaint. They said their offer of compensation was reasonable based on 
what they could have done better.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I think a total of £500 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
I say that because: 
As BUPA has acknowledged, Mr Cs expectations were raised that a nurse escort 
would accompany him back to the UK. That wasnt correct because it would always 
have been subject to the medical teams review. I think BUPA could have given 
clearer information about this and managed Mr Cs expectations better 
BUPA didnt explain in response to our investigators opinion why they referred Mr C 
to a GP, who it then transpired wasnt able to complete the necessary paperwork. 
Fortunately, the GP arranged an appointment later that day for Mr C to attend an 
appointment with a consultant. Mrs C had raised concerns in advance of the GP 
appointment whether this scenario would happen. Based on the evidence I have 
seen I think BUPA could have contacted the GP or done more to check theyd be 
able to complete the relevant paperwork before asking Mr C to attend. This would 
have saved Mr C the inconvenience and stress of having to getting to the second 
appointment in a different location. Mr and Mrs C were reliant on taxis for transport 
and Mr C was recovering from a heart attack. So, I think this caused Mr C avoidable 
distress and inconvenience 
BUPA also didnt give any further explanation about why Mr C was told not to 
mention his medical condition to the airline. The claims notes suggest that there was 
a concern that the airline may not allow him to fly and that it may lead to further 
delays. By this point in time Mr C had been told that he wasnt going to be provided 
with a nurse escort. Mrs C had also highlighted to BUPA that this was something 
both she and Mr C were worried and stressed about. So, I think they were already 
worried about the journey home. I can understand why Mr C was really worried and 
surprised when he was then told not to mention his health to the airline
Mr C was embarking on a long-haul flight and was recovering from a heart attack. 
Ive not seen a persuasive explanation as to why BUPA thought it was appropriate to 
ask Mr C to not disclose information about his health to the airline. I think it 
understandably worried Mr C given the circumstances. I appreciate BUPA wanted to 
avoid delays but I dont think it was fair to place Mr C in that position. I think it would 
have been better to deal with any concerns the airline might have had, even if it 
meant a delay, rather than to ask Mr C to keep information from them. I can 
understand why this made Mr C question BUPAs judgement about his fitness to fly 
and this caused him additional worry at an already difficult and stressful time
Taking all of the above into account I think the total of £500 more fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C. 
Putting things right
BUPA needs to pay Mr C a total of £500 for the avoidable distress and inconvenience 
caused for the reasons Ive outlined above. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and am directing BUPA Insurance Limited to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021. 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman