DRN-1064458
 
The complaint
Ms A and Mr K complain on behalf of their business 'O' that they were not provided with 
information about chargebacks, when agreeing to hire a payment terminal and use merchant 
services through Paymentsense Limited. They don't believe the chargeback has been 
processed correctly. 
The merchant services are provided through a different business, which I'll call FD. 
What happened
O entered into an agreement with Paymentsense for the provision of payment services in 
August 2016.  O also entered into a separate agreement with FD for the provision of 
merchant services. This was signed on the same day. 
In 2018, O sold two mobile phones to a customer in store for a total of £339.98.  The 
customer signed the sales receipt as, I understand, the customer couldn't remember their 
PIN. Later O noticed that the same amount had been debited out of its account. It then 
received a letter on 21 November 2018 to explain a chargeback had been raised as the 
transaction hadn't been authorised by the account holder. On 11 December 2018, FD wrote 
again saying the chargeback couldn't be defended as O hadn't replied in time. 
Ms A complained to both FD and Paymentsense about the chargeback and that information 
about chargebacks hadn't been provided when the agreements were entered into.  She says 
FD refused to deal with the matter. Paymentsense didn't uphold the complaint; it was 
satisfied operating instructions which included information about chargebacks, had been 
provided during the sales process. And it said O was responsible for ensuring transactions 
were processed securely. 
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He was satisfied the agreement entered into 
confirmed receipt of the operating guide. And he said FD was responsible for answering a 
complaint about the chargeback itself, not Paymentsense. 
Ms A has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. She argues that they never 
received any documentation outside of the agreements during the sales process. And she 
remains unhappy with how the chargeback was processed and that the payment was 
allowed to go through without warning. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
O entered into two separate agreements; one with Paymentsense for the overall provision of 
payment services, and the other with FD for the merchant acquiring - the actual processing 
of payments. I can also see the correspondence about the chargeback, and that it wouldn't 
be defended, was sent by FD.  I'm therefore satisfied, based on the current information available to me, that FD is responsible for answering any concerns Ms A has about the 
chargeback. I will therefore not be responding to any of Ms A's points about the actual 
chargeback within this decision. 
Paymentsense was the party that arranged the payment services and was responsible for 
the provision of information to O. The merchant solutions application, which was signed by 
Ms A, has a merchant declaration which asked the merchant to declare, amongst others, 
that they agreed to be bound by the operating guide, which had been provided with the 
application form. I'm therefore satisfied that Ms A signed to confirm receipt of the guide. I 
would question why she signed in confirmation of receipt of it, if that wasn't accurate. 
Overall, I'm satisfied the guide was most likely provided at the time. 
It follows that I don't uphold this complaint. If O would like to pursue a complaint against FD 
in relation to the actual chargeback and how that was processed, I ask that Ms A or Mr K let 
the investigator know, and he will arrange that. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman