DRN-3763519
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the service he received from Coverwise Ltd when enquiring about 
taking out travel insurance.
What happened
During the evening of 16 January 2022 Mr K emailed Coverwise with six main questions 
about the travel insurance policies it provides. Some of the questions also included sub-
questions. Coverwise responded by email on the morning of 22 January 2022.
Mr K raised further queries in response to what hed been told, by email, on 23 January 
2022. Coverwise provided a further reply on 29 January 2022. Coverwises representative 
said they were very sorry for the delay in response and said Coverwise was experiencing a 
high volume of emails due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
On the same day, Mr K raised concerns that not all his points had been answered. And two 
days later he received an acknowledgement from a duty manager, apologising for the 
service provided and not meeting Mr Ks expectations. More detailed answers were given to 
the queries Mr K had raised in his email dated 23 January 2022.
Mr K raised further points on 1 February 2022, noting that some of the responses received 
were unclear and asking further questions about coverage under the policies provided by 
Coverwise. He also said that he wanted his concerns to be treated as a formal complaint.
In early February 2022, Mr K was informed by Coverwises representative that given the 
nature of his work, it was unlikely that he would be covered under the policy for working 
abroad. Although its policies were designed to cover business and leisure trips as standard 
that was only if the business trip involved an administrative, clerical, non-manual occupation, 
in an office environment. It was suggested that Mr K seek more specialist insurance cover to 
meet his requirements. 
Mr K then called Coverwise and spoke to one of its representatives. During this call, he 
asked questions about the policy including what constituted manual work under the policy 
and whether hed be covered for a trip involving business. 
Coverwise ultimately accepted that there were aspects of the service Mr K received which 
fell below the standards expected. Mr K remained unhappy so complained to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Mr K disagreed so his complaint has been 
passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank Mr K for taking the time to explain why he thinks Coverwise hasnt 
acted fairly and reasonably in the way its handled his queries and the service its provided. 
Im aware that Ive only summarised his complaint in my own words and Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. The rules that govern our service allow me 
to do so as were an informal dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment 
on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome here.
Coverwise has an obligation to treat customers fairly and it accepts that in its interactions 
with Mr K, it hasnt always provided him with the level of service it would ordinarily expect. 
Coverwise accepts that there were delays in responding to emails and its apologised for 
these. It also accepts that he wasnt initially given answers to certain issues raised in his 
email dated 23 January 2022. I can see why Mr K wouldve been disappointed by this, 
particularly as hed waited over five days for a reply. Coverwise has again apologised for this 
and says that the representative has been provided with feedback.
It also accepts that the call which took place in early February 2022 shouldve been handled 
better and a coaching session had been arranged for that representative. 
Coverwise has also said that it will be rewriting its frequently answered questions to assist 
with customer understanding and it will ask the underwriter if it feels a definition of manual 
work should be added to the policy wording in the next policy wording review. 
So, the crux of the issue for me to determine is whether the apologies made to Mr K and the 
other actions taken by Coverwise to put things right are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. Or whether it would be fair and reasonable for Mr K to be 
awarded compensation for distress and inconvenience considering that he says hes spent 
around 30 hours in total dealing with Coverwise. And he has been put to needless additional 
inconvenience by having to continue to communicate about queries around the policies 
Coverwise offers, because it was either unclear in its answers or didnt respond to certain 
points at all. 
Overall, I think what Coverwise has done to put things right is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Although, Mr K didnt always get answers to questions and 
sometimes the answers might not have been as clear as they couldve been, I think the 
apologies given are sufficient to reflect to distress he felt and inconvenience he experienced.
After his email of 29 January 2022, where Mr K raised dissatisfaction about the service he 
was receiving, Im satisfied that Coverwise dealt with his queries more promptly and 
proactively. And although he still had to clarify some issues, there were further questions he 
wanted to raise in response to what hed been told, so he wouldve needed to take the time 
to respond anyway (although the time taken to respond might not have been as long had 
some of the answers been clearer). I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to award 
compensation for that additional time. Particularly as Coverwise were quick to apologise for 
service failings after theyd occurred and has promptly said that it would provide feedback 
and further training to certain staff members. 
As of 1 February 2022, given that correspondence was becoming protracted (and given the 
nature  and number  of the queries Mr K had and the different levels of cover offered by 
Coverwise), I dont think it was unreasonable for Coverwises representative to offer to call 
Mr K to go through his questions over the phone. Nor do I think it was unreasonable for it to 
refer Mr K to its frequently asked questions and policy literature which may have answered 
some of the issues he was seeking information about. I know Mr K subsequently explained 
why he didnt want to do that - and wanted to continue communicating by email - but at the time the suggestion was made, Coverwise wasnt aware of those issues. So, I dont think its 
suggestions were unreasonable given the questions Mr K wanted answered.
Im also satisfied that Coverwise acted fairly and reasonably by informing Mr K that the 
policy didnt include manual work. And although manual work isnt defined by the policy 
terms, I dont think it was unfair for Coverwise to let Mr K know about this exclusion and how 
it might apply to his circumstances, given what he said about the type of work he did. And 
during the call in February 2022, when Mr K expanded on the work he participated in when 
abroad, he was told that it would only cover business trips involving office-based work (not 
manual work).
My final decision
I dont think Coverwise Ltd needs to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman