DRN-2079196
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc sent him several requests to provide an email 
address, even though he didn't want to do so.HSBC trades in this case under its First Direct 
brand. 
What happened
Mr H opted to receive his monthly bank statements online, rather than by post. First Direct 
says that it must remind its customers when their online statements are available and that, 
where customers are registered to receive statements online, its policy is to do that by email. 
So, Mr H could either opt to receive statements by post or provide an email address. 
Because of that, it sent Mr H reminders by post when his statements were available - and 
those reminders asked him to provide an email address.
Mr H tried to switch to paper statements through online banking, but found out that he was 
unable to do so, unless he provided an email address. That was contrary to what the bank 
had told him; it accepted that and paid Mr H £25 by way of compensation. 
Mr H wasn't happy with what the bank had done and referred the case to this service, where 
one of our investigators considered it. She initially said she thought the bank had treated Mr 
H fairly - in the sense that it had paid reasonable compensation in recognition of its error. Mr 
H said however that it hadn't rectified the underlying problem and that he was still receiving 
requests for an email address. He provided a copy of a letter he'd received recently, telling 
him that if he'd prefer to receive less paper he could provide an email address and receive 
correspondence that way. 
First Direct said that letter had been generated primarily to provide Mr H with his annual fee 
summary. Whilst requests for an email address had been suppressed for his monthly 
statements, the same wasn't the case for the fee summary. It offered a further £25 in 
compensation. Our investigator thought that was reasonable, but Mr H disagreed and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's primarily for First Direct to decide how it delivers reminders to customers that their 
statements and other correspondence are ready to view online. I don't believe it was 
unreasonable therefore to ask Mr H to provide an email address. However, once it 
understood that Mr H - for whatever reason - was unwilling to do that, it should have 
explained clearly what his options were. The bank accepts that it didn't do that, and it paid 
him compensation in recognition of it. First Direct accepts too that it didn't fully comply with Mr H's request and that it asked him 
again for an email address in respect of the annual fee statement. It offered a further £25, 
which our investigator thought was fair, although he didn't. The main issue I have to consider 
is therefore whether that offer is fair or whether I should award more.
In my view the bank's offer of an additional £25 is fair in the circumstances. I appreciate that 
it may have been frustrating for Mr H to receive a further letter of this kind, but I don't 
believe the bank's error warrants any more than a modest payment, especially taking into 
account the £25 already paid.
Putting things right
Although the bank has offered a further £25, I will make a formal award of that sum, so that 
Mr H can enforce should he need to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that to resolve Mr H's complaint HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr H 
£25 (in addition to the £25 it's already paid him). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman