DRN-3692078
The complaint
Miss H complains UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In February 2017 Miss H applied for, and was given a loan for £5,000, which was repayable
over a period of 24 months. The repayments were around £286 a month. The reason given
for taking out the loan was debt consolidation. The loan was paid off slightly early in
November 2018.
Miss H says UK Credit shouldnt have given her the loan because it wasnt affordable. 
UK Credit says it did check whether the loan was affordable, and based on those checks, 
Miss H had enough disposable income to make the loan repayments.
Our investigator thought Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. Bamboo disagreed, so this
complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision where I explained why I didnt think Miss Hs complaint should 
be upheld. I said:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs complaint.
UK Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss H
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Miss H would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way.
UK Credit did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. And I think that given
the amount Miss H was borrowing, the information she had provided about her income and
expenditure, together with the information on her credit file, UK Credits checks were good
enough.
UK Credit asked for some information from Miss H before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of her income and verified this by asking for a statement. It also went through the
statement with Miss H to agree her usual expenditure. It reviewed her credit file to
understand her credit history and existing commitments. From these checks combined
UK Credit concluded that Miss H had enough monthly disposable income to afford the loan.
Miss Hs net monthly income (her income after deductions) was around £1,300  as
confirmed by her bank statement from the time. Based on the information from Miss Hs
statement, together with the information she gave during a call with UK Credit, UK Credit has
calculated her monthly expenditure, excluding any leisure costs, contingency, repayments
for the debts Miss H was consolidating and the repayment for the new loan, as around £565
a month. I largely agree with this calculation, based on what Ive seen and what we know
about Miss Hs circumstances at the time.
I do think the payment towards Miss Hs outstanding credit card balance that was included
should have been higher  the amount has been calculated as a minimum payment (about
£5), but this would not allow Miss H to sustainably repay the balance in a reasonable period.
But even if this is increased to a more realistic amount  say £20 a month  this doesnt
make significant difference to her disposable monthly income.
Ive also noted that the statement she provided to UK Credit does show her spending on
food and some other items to be higher than reflected in the expenditure calculation done by
UK Credit. But the statement covered the festive period and Miss H confirmed her usual
spending would be much lower than this. This is plausible and I think UK Credit was entitled
to rely on this.
So it does seem Miss H had enough disposable income to be able to sustainably make the
repayments on the UK Credit loan she was given.
The investigator was concerned about some of the information on Miss Hs credit file  there
was some adverse information recorded in relation to two catalogue shopping accounts and
Miss H had taken out a high-cost short-term loan around the time she was taking out this
loan. This could suggest Miss H was struggling financially and giving her more credit would
be irresponsible. But Miss H planned to repay the two catalogue shopping accounts with the
UK Credit loan, and shed already repaid the short-term loan. She had taken out another one
since the credit search had been done. This was also due to be repaid with the UK Credit
loan. So Miss Hs overall indebtedness wouldnt have been increasing.
Overall, having considered everything, I currently dont think UK Credit did anything wrong
by giving Miss H the loan.
UK Credit responded to the provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. Miss H 
didnt respond by the deadline Id set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither UK Credit nor Miss H have provided any new evidence or arguments in response 
to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
It follows that for the reasons set out here and in my provisional decision, I dont think 
UK Credit did anything wrong by giving Miss H the loan it did. 
Im satisfied the checks it did were reasonable and proportionate given the amount Miss H 
was borrowing, the term of the loan and what it knew about her financial circumstances.
And based on the information obtained by doing these checks, it was reasonable for 
UK Credit to conclude Miss H would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2022. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman