DRN-2579046
The complaint
Mr B1 complains (on behalf of his parents Mr and Mrs B) that Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited arranged an unsuitable lifetime mortgage in 2001, and then two further advances in 
2006 and 2010 respectively.
Mr B1 has brought this complaint under a Lasting Power of Attorney.
What happened
In 2001 Mr and Mrs B took out a lifetime mortgage for £21,000 a on an interest roll-up basis, 
so they didnt need to make any monthly payments. They told Aviva that they wanted to 
repay a credit card debt, carry out some home improvements, raise funds to pay for 
holidays, and put money aside as an emergency fund. The lifetime mortgage completed in 
August 2001 at a fixed interest rate of 8.25%.
In 2006 Mr and Mrs B requested a further advance of £22,000. This was again taken out on 
an interest roll-up basis, so they didnt need to make any monthly payments. They told Aviva 
that they wanted to carry out some home improvements, raise funds to pay for holidays, 
repay a credit card debt, buy a car, and put money aside as an emergency fund. The further 
advance completed in November 2006 at a fixed interest rate of 6.60%.
In 2010 Mr and Mrs B requested another further advance, this time for £10,245. This was 
again taken out on an interest roll-up basis, so they didnt need to make any monthly 
payments. They told Aviva that they wanted to replace their car, and put money aside as an 
emergency fund. The further advance completed in December 2010 at a fixed interest rate of 
6.94%.
In 2020 Mr B1 complained about the sale of the lifetime mortgage products.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr B1 didnt agree so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr B1 wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file 
Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome. 
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr and Mrs B are 
consumers, and so they both meet the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our 
rules. The rules also say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible 
complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this 
respect, Mr and Mrs Bs son - Mr B1 - is bringing the complaint on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf.
But I must explain that, although Mr B1 is representing them, it is Mr and Mrs B who are 
Avivas customers. Mr B1s role is to bring Mr and Mrs Ls complaint on their behalf, in the 
same way that other consumers might instruct a solicitor or other professional to represent 
them in a complaint. But this does not entitle Mr B1 to air his own grievances about the 
equity release mortgage because hes not the eligible complainant here; his role is limited to 
putting forward his parents complaint.
Mr B1 has said:
Insufficient fact finding was completed by the adviser during the process of setting up 
the lifetime mortgage and therefore the adviser did not have full knowledge of the views 
of [Mr and Mrs Bs] adult children, as was required. It was a requirement of yours in 
setting up the lifetime mortgage that [Mr and Mrs Bs] adult children had been fully 
aware of the proposal and agreed to it. [Mr and Mrs B] may have assumed their 
agreement. Had their son and daughter been aware of your advisors discussions and 
recommendations, no such agreement would have been forthcoming and the lifetime 
mortgage arrangement would not have come into being. You entirely failed to carry out 
suitable and sufficient investigations and checks with regard to this critical element of 
their application, sufficient to satisfy yourselves that those required to confirm 
agreement had actually done so.
 your failure to make sufficient investigative checks to satisfy yourselves beyond all 
reasonable doubt that the proposals had family agreement was negligent.
[Mr and Mrs Bs] beneficiaries would not had supported these loans had Aviva 
discussed it with them...
Aviva have provided no evidence that they had discussed this with the beneficiaries 
themselves before proceeding or sought full confirmation from them (because they did 
not). Aviva proceeded by conducting what was in the nature of an informal discussion 
with [Mr and Mrs B] only. This is not ok and falls far short of providing evidence that the 
views of beneficiaries had been dealt with. Such an action by Aviva would have been 
crucial to [Mr and Mrs Bs] beneficiaries having a full understanding of the background to 
the loan requirement and the circumstances and may have influenced the outcome.
An Equity release (ER) advisor should ideally get written evidence in the clients' own 
words that they do not want their beneficiaries to be present, supported by a reason 
which can be verified by the advisor before proceeding.
It was not for Aviva to question whether Mr and Mrs B were being truthful when they said 
theyd spoken to their children. Mr and Mrs B signed a single page form in 2006 and again in 
2010 saying they had discussed the lifetime mortgage with their family, and in 2001 it was 
recorded in the paperwork that there had been a discussion, albeit at that time there wasnt a 
separate form that was signed. Aviva was entitled to accept those as being truthful answers. Its not uncommon for parents to want to keep their finances private from their children. Im 
sure Mr B1 can see how many complaints would be made if a lender refused to lend money 
to an adult who is capable of making their own decisions, unless their child (who had no 
financial link to them) gave their permission; Im sure most people would see how 
inappropriate and intrusive that would be. 
If Mr and Mrs B decided not to discuss their plans with their children, that was entirely their 
decision to make, it was their house and their equity after all. Aviva was under no obligation 
to contact any family members to obtain their consent before Mr and Mrs B went ahead with 
the mortgage and further advances. It would have been both a breach of data protection 
legislation and a gross invasion of Mr and Mrs Bs privacy if Aviva had done so.
Im sensitive to the fact that Mr B1 has questioned why our investigator made assumptions 
about what might have happened when making his findings in the absence of recorded 
evidence. I can see why Mr B1s frustrated about this.
Its impossible for us now to establish everything that was discussed between Mr and Mrs B 
and the advisers at the time. Im aware that 20 years have passed since the lifetime 
mortgage was sold, and ten years since the last further advance. Due to the passage of 
time, it can be difficult in such complaints to be certain of exactly what was discussed and 
agreed at the time. 
In such instances we typically look at the records from the time to try to get the best 
impression possible of what was discussed. However, thats not the end of the matter. We 
also look at the wider transactions and the specific circumstances of the consumer(s) at the 
time of the sales to try to establish if a product was mis-sold.
Id like to reassure Mr B1 that Ive carefully reviewed the documents available from the time 
of the sales to try to build up a picture of what happened. And Ive used all this evidence to 
try to determine whether Aviva mis-sold the lifetime mortgage and further advances to 
Mr and Mrs B and if those were clearly unsuitable for their needs at the time. And to be 
clear, just because something isnt recorded as Mr B1 would now want, doesnt mean the 
lifetime mortgage and further advances were mis-sold.
This type of mortgage provides that no repayments are made, and interest rolls up over the 
years. As a result, the amount the debt has increased to can sometimes come as a shock to 
family members. But that doesnt mean the consumers that took out the mortgage  so here 
that is Mr and Mrs B  didnt understand the consequences of the interest roll up and werent 
happy to agree to it. As I said earlier, this was Mr and Mrs Bs house and their equity. If they 
wanted to enjoy their money at a time they still could then it would be highly inappropriate for 
me to say that Aviva shouldnt have allowed them to do so.
I also note that Mr and Mrs B had independent advice from their own solicitor before they 
took out the lifetime mortgage. If the solicitor had thought Mr and Mrs B werent able to 
understand the nature of the transaction they were entering into, the solicitor had a duty to 
inform Aviva, under the Safe Home Income Plans rules.
For each of the three sales, Mr and Mrs B had valid reasons for wanting to borrow the 
money. Mr B1 has said:
Given the emerging pattern of repeated equity release requests, Aviva would have been 
fully aware that [Mr and Mrs Bs] reasons for further advances were not consistent with 
Avivas own stated fact that equity releases is not suitable for short term loans.I think Mr B1 has misunderstood that statement. The reference to equity release being 
unsuitable for short term loans relates to people borrowing money and then paying it back in 
the short term; not about what the person intends to spend the money on. The reason why 
equity release is unsuitable for people intending to repay the money is that there are 
normally early repayment charges. Thats not relevant here as Mr and Mrs B didnt intend to 
 and didnt - repay the money in the short term. 
The fact Mr and Mrs B wanted to spend some money on holidays, for example, is not at all 
inappropriate and is quite a common thing we see with equity release mortgages. Many 
equity release customers are retired so they have more time available and wish to spend 
that time having holidays and undertaking other general leisure activities. It wasnt Avivas 
role to tell Mr and Mrs B not to spend on their credit card, buy new carpets or to buy cars. I 
go back to the fact this was Mr and Mrs Bs  house and their equity to use as they wished.
In terms of the credit card consolidation, that was dealt with in the 2006 suitability letter:
As you are planning to repay existing unsecured borrowings out of the money raised, I 
have explained that you aren't obliged to do this to qualify for this lifetime mortgage and 
you should give careful consideration to this action. This is because the 'rolled-up' 
interest on the lifetime mortgage may be higher than the interest on the existing 
borrowings and it is likely that the term will be extended beyond the original term of the 
loan.
However, I have considered the monthly and overall cost of repayment, any early 
repayment charges and the remaining terms of the borrowings and I believe that, in your 
case, using a lifetime mortgage to repay them is beneficial because you will be free from 
your debt which is important to you.
By paying off your unsecured debt with Equity Release you are effectively swapping 
over to a secured loan. In doing this you are accepting a potentially higher interest rate 
over a longer term due to the roll up of the loan. You understand that you are extending 
the term of the loan to a lifetime loan. You do not mind this as you will be free from your 
monthly commitments.
Mr and Mrs B wanted to maximise the money they had available to spend. By leaving 
themselves with a credit card debt the monthly repayments for that would reduce the money 
they had available each month, so it doesnt seem to have been inappropriate for the credit 
card debt to be repaid by the equity release mortgage.
The illustration for the original 2001 lifetime mortgage said:
You (or your estate) must repay the loan of £21000.00 plus accumulated interest when 
you have both left the property because you need long term care or when the survivor of 
you has died. You (or your estate) may need to sell your home in order to do this.
The annual interest rate is 8.25% compound. Interest will continue to accumulate until the 
loan is repaid.There was then a table showing how much Mr and Mrs B would owe at three points:
After 5 years they would owe £31,215.
After 10 years they would owe £46,398.
After 20 years they would owe £102,513.
The illustration for the 2006 further advance said:
A lifetime mortgage is a special type of loan which is usually designed to run for the rest 
of your life, and which means that you borrow money that is secured on your home to 
give you a lump sum and/or a regular income. The amount you owe to the lender is 
usually paid back from the proceeds of the sale of your home after your death. If you are 
borrowing with someone else, this would be after the death of the last borrower. Any 
money left over would be paid to your beneficiaries.
Interest is charged at a fixed rate of 6.60%
This additional borrowing will provide you with a cash lump sum. You will not make any 
monthly repayments during the life of this additional borrowing. The total amount you 
owe including the interest and charges must be repaid when you have left your home 
because you have died or need long-term care.
We have based this illustration on an estimated term of 15 years, but remember that 
the term of this additional borrowing is not fixed and could be longer or shorter than 15 
years. If you are still living in your home at the end of 15 years, the additional borrowing 
will continue to run.
Check that this mortgage will meet your needs if you want your family or others to 
inherit your home. If you are in doubt, seek independent legal and financial advice.
Theres a table showing how much will be owed at the end of each year with the start
balance of £22,000 increasing to £30,283.68 at the end of year five, £41,686.43 at the end of 
year ten and £57,382.67 at the end of year fifteen.
Above that is the explanation:
This shows how the amount paid to you and the interest and any fees that we charge
mount up over 15 years. It has been calculated using the current interest rate of 6.60%.
Interest is added to the amount you owe annually. Remember that the additional
borrowing could run for a longer or shorter time than 15 years, and if it runs for longer,
the amount you owe will carry on increasing.
It also says If this additional borrowing is added to your existing lifetime mortgage, the total 
amount you will owe at the end of the estimated term of 15 years will be £161,633.10.
The 2010 illustration followed the same format, and included similar warnings and the figures 
relevant to that advance.
The process of taking out the lifetime mortgage and each of the further advances werent 
immediate things; they each took around two months to complete. I think if Mr and Mrs B 
had felt uncertain about the advice theyd been given or had thought there might be another 
way they could borrow the money, they could have taken independent financial advice during these times. They could also have reached out to friends or family to discuss their 
plans further if wanted to. 
This is something for Mr and Mrs B to have chosen to do, and Im satisfied from the 
documents that Aviva encouraged them to do so. But it was ultimately Mr and Mrs Bs 
choice. Each time it was recorded that the adviser discussed with Mr and Mrs B what other 
options they may have had to raise the money, such as downsizing or using savings, but 
they didnt want to consider those instead.
Having looked at the documents, Aviva made Mr and Mrs B aware of the contracts they 
were entering into. It also recommended that they sought independent legal and financial 
advice if they were in any doubt about whether it was right for them. 
All the recorded intended expenditure items seem like perfectly valid reasons for someone to 
borrow money secured against an asset worth significantly more than those borrowings. 
Theres nothing to indicate that Mr and Mrs B lacked the capacity to be able to make those 
decisions themselves at the time so it would be completely wrong of me to now say, some 
ten to twenty years later, that they shouldnt have been allowed to.
Mr and Mrs B had some clear aims and the lifetime mortgage and further advances achieved 
those. Theres nothing to show Mr and Mrs B were vulnerable at the time, or unable to 
understand the contracts they were entering into, and having considered everything the 
advice given doesnt seem inappropriate.
Im aware how disappointed Mr B1 will be with my decision. However, Ive looked very 
closely at all the documents surrounding the sale of this mortgage and the further advances. 
And Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Bs situation each time and what they are 
recorded to have wanted to achieve from the financing.
From all the evidence and arguments presented to me, I dont think it was unreasonable that 
Aviva sold Mr and Mrs B a lifetime mortgage and then two further advances as these gave a 
way for Mr and Mrs B to release lump sums to meet their objectives. I also think Aviva has 
applied interest to the loans in line with its terms and conditions, and that it laid out the terms 
of the contracts in a manner consistent with the regulatory and/or other requirements at the 
times in question.
Finally, Mr B1 has commented on how Aviva handled the complaint. Our rules set out the 
matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment services, lending money, 
paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we can consider 
complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator - 
the Financial Conduct Authority - requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to 
make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of 
activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if the complaint handling was ancillary to something we have the power to 
consider. So we can, in theory, consider how Aviva handled the complaint.
But there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an 
award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the 
underlying issue being complained about. As Ive not upheld the underlying complaint about 
Mr and Mrs Bs lifetime mortgage, it follows I cant uphold any complaint about how Aviva 
handled that complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman