DRN-2249913
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was told TSB Bank plc charges to complete Data Subject Access 
Requests (DSARs). Mr M says TSB didnt respond to his DSAR requests in good time. Mr M 
also complains that one of TSBs advisors abused him over the phone while calling from a 
private number. Mr M complains that he has been recorded as a drug user on TSBs notes. 
What happened
Mr M has made DSARs to TSB in on 2 January 2020, 18 May 2020 and 9 July 2020. TSB 
says it has complied with all Mr Ms requests, sending him the required documents within the 
40 day time limit. 
On 14 May 2020 Mr M discussed his account and charges with TSB and asked to raise a 
DSAR. The advisor told Mr M the cost was £10 and there was a disagreement about 
whether TSB charges consumers for completing a DSAR. During a second call to TSB on 14 
May 2020 Mr M was told it charges customers £10 to complete a DSAR. 
Mr M says that after these calls, he received phone calls from someone who abused him. Mr 
M says it was one of the people he spoke to at TSB and that they took his number to make 
the call from a private line. Mr M also said TSB had recorded he is a drug user.
Mr M complained but TSB didnt agree it had made any errors. Mr M referred his complaints 
to our service and an investigator looked at what had happened. They didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaints about the calls he says were received from a private number, the responses he 
received to the DSARs or find information about drug use on his customer notes. But the 
investigator asked TSB to pay Mr M £100 because it had incorrectly told him that there was 
a £10 fee to process a DSAR and the error had caused unnecessary upset. TSB didnt 
agree and asked to appeal, so Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Ms complaint points but he hasnt sent us anything to evidence he was called 
by a member of TSBs staff and abused. TSB asked Mr M for additional details about the 
calls but they werent supplied. Im satisfied that TSBs decision not to uphold this part of Mr 
Ms complaint was reasonable as it wasnt able to verify what he said had happened. 
Mr M also says there is a reference to him being a drug user on TSBs system notes. But 
TSB, the investigator and I have been unable to trace any such reference. As I havent found 
Mr M was referred to as a drug user, Im not upholding this part of Mr Ms complaint. 
Ive looked at the DSAR time limits and responses TSB made. Im satisfied TSB responded 
within the time limits given in the rules and that it complied with Mr Ms DSARs. 
Like the investigator, I agree that the calls on 14 May 2020 should have been handled better. 
Mr M was told there was a £10 DSAR fee despite TSB confirming it hasnt charged for 
providing that service since 2018. When Mr M challenged the incorrect information he was 
given by the call handler he was told that he could report the issue to the Police which 
further upset him. Our investigator thought the call was handled poorly and asked TSB to 
pay Mr M £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused. 
TSBs response to the investigator said Mr M was already upset when he spoke with it on 14 
May 2020. Its clear Mr M was concerned about a decision by TSB to remove his overdraft 
facility, but I agree with the investigator. Im satisfied that providing the incorrect information 
and then referring Mr M to the police if he was unhappy made a difficult situation worse and 
caused unnecessary distress. Taking the impact of this on Mr M into account, I agree with 
the investigators view that a payment of £1 00 from TSB is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. As a result, Im endorsing the investigators view that Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld and that TSB should pay him £100. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr M £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman