DRN-2948201
The complaint
Ms P complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited unreasonably refused 
her critical illness claim.  
What happened
Ms P took out a life assurance policy with L&G in March 2015. It offered cover for a twenty-
five year term, with a sum assured of £129,000. The policy also had additional critical illness 
benefit of £21,000 over the same term. 
In 2016, Ms P made a claim to L&G for critical illness benefit under the policy definition of 
traumatic head injury (THI). This was because Ms P sadly suffered a number of 
neurological symptoms, pain in her neck and weakness in her left side following a road traffic 
accident in late 2015. This necessitated imaging of her head and a neurologist referral. 
L&G declined the claim in October 2016. It explained that Ms Ps consultant had confirmed 
she had not suffered from any death of brain tissue, and this was required by the policy 
wording. Similarly, there was no documented evidence of permanent neurological deficit, 
also required to meet the THI definition. 
In July 2017, the policy lapsed after Ms P stopped paying the premiums. 
In 2019 and 2020, Ms P made further retrospective claims to L&G, this time under the policy 
definition benign brain tumour (BBT). She asked L&G to revisit its decision under the THI 
claim, given she suffered from persisting symptoms. She also supplied further medical 
information about a different lesion, this time in her pituitary gland. 
However, L&G also refused those claims. It said that Ms Ps medical records did not provide 
evidence that satisfied the BBT policy definition nor the previous definition of THI. 
In 2019, it said Ms Ps neurologist had stated that no surgical intervention was required for 
the incidental finding of Ms Ps benign lesion and that its existence was not an explanation 
for her ongoing difficulties. 
In 2020, L&G noted that a telephone assessment of Ms P by a neurologist had said she had 
issues with recall and memory from the 2015 accident, but neither definition was met on this 
basis. It explained that Ms P had been diagnosed with a functional neurological disorder and 
that there was no pathological cause for this. Specifically there was no structural disease of 
the nervous system, no associated head injury or defined BBT to explain those symptoms.
Ms P therefore lodged a complaint. She said despite resubmitting further evidence, L&G was 
still trying to avoid paying a claim. 
L&G refused the complaint in December 2020. It said that it sympathised with Ms Ps 
ongoing symptoms but that the symptoms do not fulfil the criteria for BBT or THI, which was 
a requirement of the policy before it lapsed. That is why it could not pay a claim now. 
Ms P therefore referred her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. He concluded that the complaint shouldnt be upheld because he thought L&G 
had reasonably refused the claims. 
He said that the medical evidence did not satisfy either policy definition in full. While he 
realised Ms P had felt L&G was unfair in disregarding the severity of her symptoms, the 
policy definitions did set out what was required for each condition in order to have a claim 
paid. As these werent met, he couldnt say L&G had done anything wrong.  
L&G agreed with the investigators conclusion and confirmed it had no further submissions to 
make. Ms P asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. She made a number of 
further comments:
she has had to make major changes to her life, for example, only being able to drive 
an automatic vehicle;
there was published evidence (that Ms P supplied) relating to traumatic brain injuries 
and post-traumatic stress disorder;
the reason for her left-sided weakness was because she had also suffered a 
transient ischaemic attack (TIA);
she also has a number of adjustments to maintain her employment;
she had other health issues, supplying evidence of a consultant appointment of July 
2019 where she was diagnosed with a type of cyst in her kidney;
she also supplied evidence of a mandatory reconsideration regarding disability-
related state benefits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of her poor health and do send Ms P my best wishes. Though I realise 
my decision will be disappointing her, I do not believe this complaint should succeed.
In order to assess whether L&G has acted fairly in the circumstances, I need to review the 
medical information before me alongside the policy terms Ms P is claiming against. That is 
because L&G is obliged to meet a claim under the contract of insurance that was in place 
between the parties until July 2017, if any definition has been met in full. The terms set out 
that this is the case. 
The two relevant conditions included in Ms Ps policy were THI and BBT. There are set out 
as follows:
"Traumatic head injury - resulting in permanent symptoms.
Death of brain tissue due to traumatic injury resulting in permanent neurological 
deficit with persisting clinical symptoms."; and
Benign Brain Tumour - resulting in either surgical removal or permanent symptoms. 
A non-malignant tumour or cyst in the brain, cranial nerves or meninges within the 
skull, resulting in either surgical removal or permanent neurological deficit with 
persisting clinical symptoms. 
For the above definition, the following are not covered: 
- Tumours in the pituitary gland [my emphasis]
- AngiomasIn the first instance, L&G wrote to Dr S, the neurologist that assessed Ms P. It also reviewed 
a letter dated 1 July 2016 which was sent to Ms Ps GP following a review of the recent CT 
scan, coupled with MRI imaging from 2013. 
Dr M explained that the consensus of the neurology team was that the right frontal bone 
abnormality Ms P had reported was a well-defined lesion, almost certainly fibrous dysplasia 
- that being a congenital bone condition where fibrous tissue develops in place of normal 
bone. Dr M went on to state that we would, therefore, not have any concerns about this 
lesion and I would like to reassure Ms P regarding this finding, which is most likely 
incidental.  
I believe that neither policy definition was met on this basis. The scans did not show any 
death of brain tissue following the accident Ms P suffered, as required in a THI claim  and 
this would be present on imaging of this nature. Further, even if the lesion amounted to a 
BBT as defined (which I do not believe is the case), Ms P did not require surgical 
intervention. 
Nonetheless, Ms P was displaying reported ongoing neurological issues. Therefore, L&G 
rightly asked Dr M for a medical report and put a direct question to her regarding the 
prospect for any permanent deficit that Ms P may suffer. It asked, has your patient been left 
with any neurological deficit? and went on to ask if Dr M believed any such deficit would be 
permanent either with or without treatment and why. 
Dr M replied, these symptoms have been present since 2008, but have worsened since the 
incident, possibly due to exacerbation of stress due to the incident, but the weakness and 
headache may be a combination of migraine and musculoskeletal pain. I do not believe this 
will be permanent, Advised relaxation techniques, minimisation of stress, physiotherapy and 
analgesia".
 
Ms P also met with a Neuro Physiotherapist, Mr H in July 2016 following referral after her 
injury. He explained how I concur with Dr H [another neurologist from the team Ms P was 
reviewed by] that there is no focal neurological cause for her reported headaches and left 
arm weakness.  
Both policy wordings require there to be objective evidence of permanent neurological deficit 
with persisting clinical symptoms  and the deficit needs to have been caused by either THI 
or a BBT, as defined above. 
I realise Ms P has a complicated medical history, with many interlinked debilitating issues. 
And while I have no reason to dispute any of the ongoing symptoms Ms P continues to sadly 
suffer from, I can only uphold a complaint where I find that a business should have paid a 
claim under a policy definition based on the medical information it has received. 
In this case, there is no clear evidence of Ms P suffering from permanent neurological deficit 
before July 2017. The evidence Ive set out does not attribute Ms Ps lesion or a traumatic 
head injury as the cause of the ongoing symptoms. In addition, later evidence after the policy 
lapsed has attributed Ms Ps symptoms to a functional neurological disorder.     
I do also recognise that Ms P has gone to some lengths to obtain additional medical 
information and confirmed that a further incidental finding of a cyst in her pituitary gland was 
found on imaging in 2019. However, even if that finding could have been said to be present 
before July 2017 (the last point at which a claim could have been made), this type of tumour 
is expressly excluded in the BBT wording  as I have pointed out in bold within the definition 
above. No claim could therefore be paid on this basis either.  Aside from including mandatory conditions of stroke, heart attack, and cancer, insurers can 
decide what illnesses they will cover. Industry guidance from the Association of British 
Insurers proposes model wordings for insurers to use in critical illness policies, and the 
guidance expressly says how insurers are free to decide on the conditions and exclusions 
applicable to their products. 
The wording used by L&G for the two critical illnesses set out above does accord with the 
proposed model wording suggested by the ABI. I do not therefore believe it has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in assessing Ms Ps claims against the wording set out, particularly 
where this is proposed by the ABIs minimum standards.   
I know Ms P remains poorly and she feels strongly that her circumstances should warrant a 
retrospective claim payment. But my view is that the refusal of a claim for a condition or 
event which does not meet all of the key requirements within a specified policy term is, in 
most circumstances, a reasonable action for an insurer to take.
My final decision
I am not able to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman