DRN-2908458
The complaint
Mr D complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited didnt pay him enough for his stolen 
motorcycle when he made a claim for its loss on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ds motorcycle (registered in 2010) was stolen in March 2021. At the time, it was for sale 
and Mr D says hed had an offer to buy it at the asking price of £3,500. MCE offered him 
£2,500 for the bike, based on the valuations it found in the national trade guides.  Mr D said 
the guides didnt take into account that his bike could be used on the road, as opposed to 
being used off-road only. He thought that distinction added £1,000 to the value of his bike.  
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ds complaint. He checked the trade guide valuations 
and concluded that MCE had acted reasonably in basing its offer on the figures they quoted 
at the time.  He pointed out that the policy said MCE would use industry guide publications to 
find the bikes market value. He didnt think the adverts provided by Mr D showing bikes 
similar to his for sale between £3,000 and £4,000 made a difference.  
Mr D said the guide prices were for off-road bikes. He queried the £800 difference between 
the valuation given in one of the guides when MCE got its valuation and at the time the 
investigator did so. He didnt think the advertised prices hed seen would be discounted by 
such an amount at the point of sale as to bring them into line with the guide prices. Mr D said 
there were several people interested in his bike as well as the person who had offered to buy 
it. He thought that showed its true market value.   
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We usually say the valuations given in the trade guides are the most reliable way to 
establish a vehicles likely market value, as theyre based on the likely sales prices of 
numerous similar vehicles nationwide. In this case, Mr D says the valuations only reflect off-
road prices, but my understanding is that theyre based on the likely sales prices of both off-
road and road-legal bikes. 
The valuation given in one of the guides increased significantly between the date MCE 
consulted it and the date on which the investigator did so, but it isnt unusual for that 
particular guide to change its valuation. As the investigator pointed out, our approach to this 
issue is that its fair for an insurer to base its offer on the valuations it finds at the time. 
We dont usually find advertised prices helpful in establishing a vehicles market value, partly 
because theyre open to negotiation and also because the sums quoted can vary a lot 
between what seem to be similar vehicles. But we do look at them - and occasionally, we 
think they make a difference. In this case,  Mr D provided the following adverts:
A bike five years older than his, priced at £3,200 (not specified as road-legal)
Two bikes two years older than his, priced at around £4,000 (off-road only)
Two bikes a year older than his, both priced at £3,500 (one road legal)
I carried out some research and found a bike two years older than Mr Ds bike, priced at 
£2,500 (rather than at around £4,000, as above) and one manufactured three years after his, 
priced at £3,500. Neither was specified as off-road or road-legal. The other adverts I found 
gave no age for the bikes or were for bikes much newer than Mr Ds bike, so they couldnt be 
compared to his. Only one of the adverts specified that the bike was for use on the road.
In addition, we sought a bespoke valuation for Mr Ds bike from one of the trade guide 
organisations. Unfortunately, the valuation wasnt helpful, as it was based solely on a bike 
that was first registered four years after Mr Ds bike, priced at well over £5,000.
I dont think the prices quoted in the adverts are consistent enough to be relied on, and few 
of them specified whether the bikes could be used on the road. That may be because they 
werent, as Mr D says road-legal bikes arent available very often. Although when such bikes 
are sold, they may be worth more than off-road bikes I dont think Mr D has been able to 
show that a bike like his is worth more than the average valuation quoted in the trade guides. 
Mr D may well have been able to get more than £2,500 for his bike had the prospective 
purchaser (having seen the extra photos hed asked for) or another buyer been happy to pay 
more than that. As he has pointed out, the bike was worth what someone was prepared to 
pay for it. So it was very unfortunate for Mr D that the bike was stolen just before he could 
sell it. In these circumstances; he was bound to be really disappointed with MCEs offer, and 
I understand why he feels hes lost out financially. But even if thats the case, in my opinion it 
doesnt mean MCE did anything wrong in the standard way it valued the bike, or that its 
market value offer was too low.
I know Mr D wont be happy with my decision, but I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold MCE at fault and uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman