DRN-2304726
The complaint
Mr P complains that a technical error at Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) resulted in 
him being unable to place an online trade and that he suffered a financial loss as a result. 
What happened
Mr P attempted to place an instruction via his Halifax online share dealing account on 13 
December 2019 to sell 30,000 shares in Lloyds Banking Group. Mr P received an error 
message and was unable to trade. Mr P sold his shares later over two transactions and 
received £333.75 less than what he expected to receive from his initial deal on 13 
December.
Mr P complained to Halifax who investigated his complaint. Halifax said that they had 
reviewed the market activity on 13 December and found that there was price volatility in the 
stock that Mr P was attempting to trade. They said that there was no single price available to 
trade for more than a few milliseconds due to market conditions. Halifax said that although 
there may have been a live price at the time that Mr P first attempted the trade, the market 
maker would have withdrawn that price before the trade was executed.
Halifax did not uphold Mr Ps complaint as they said that the failure to execute the trade was 
not as a result of their website failure but of market mechanics. Unhappy with Halifaxs 
response, Mr P referred his complaint to the service and one of our investigators looked at 
his complaint.
The investigator reviewed Mr Ps complaint but decided that Halifax had not done anything 
wrong and did not uphold his complaint. Unhappy with he investigators view, Mr P asked for 
an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I will not be upholding his complaint and will explain why. My 
role is to investigate the complaint and see if the business has made an error or done 
something wrong and if it has, to put the client back in the position had the error not 
occurred. Having reviewed the complaint, I cant see that the business has done anything 
wrong and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
Mr P says that the error message that he received when attempting to place his sale 
instruction indicated that there was a system issue on the dealing platform which meant that 
his trade could not be executed. The error message says Your instruction cannot be 
captured online at the present time. To help us investigate the cause of this problem, please 
call us. quoting all of the details above.
Having reviewed the error message I do sympathise with Mr P that its not entirely obvious 
that this relates to market volatility and a lack of live prices from the market maker. I can see 
from the documentation that Mr P called Halifax after receiving the error message and was 
told that this was due to market volatility. Mr P was given options on how to proceed but 
didnt wish to amend the deal.
In their submission to the service, Halifax have provided details of the pricing around the 
time that Mr P attempted to execute his sale. I can see that the price of Lloyds Banking 
Group was volatile and changed every second in the same minute that Mr P was trying to 
sell so I agree with Halifax that the error message was produced as a result of the market 
volatility.
Mr P has said that the terms and conditions are unclear when a price can be withdrawn. I 
have reviewed the terms and conditions and they say:
Once we have accepted your order, we cannot accept any responsibility for any actual or 
potential financial loss or expense that you incur if, for any reason (other than our 
negligence), there is a delay or change in market conditions before the execution of your 
order is complete
Halifaxs Order Execution Policy also states:
Very rarely, extreme volatility in the markets may mean that that we cant get or process 
quotes from all of our market counterparties. 
As Halifax act as the clients agent when receiving orders on their website for execution, they 
place reliance on the market counterparty offering live prices. In times of market volatility, the 
market counterparty may withdraw live prices in order to minimise any market risk to them. 
As Halifax are not responsible for the creation of market prices, I cant hold them responsible 
for Mr Ps sale instruction not executing.
Mr P says that he suffered a financial loss of £333.75 as his initial sale didnt go through and 
he had to place two subsequent sales which both incurred a commission charge. Although I 
sympathise that Mr P did not receive the price that was first displayed, I dont think that this 
was down to a system issue and within the control of Halifax. 
Mr P says that he should be compensated for the frustration and delays that he experienced. 
The service does look at complaints to see if the client should be compensated for any 
trouble and upset caused by an error but as I have already said, I dont think that Halifax 
have done anything wrong and Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
In summary, I sympathise that Mr P was attempting to trade at a time when there was 
market volatility in his chosen stock, but I dont think that Halifax have done anything wrong 
and I have seen no evidence that there was a system issue while he was attempting to 
trade.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman