DRN-1089873
 
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the way Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited has dealt with him 
leading to the cancellation of his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T took out a motor insurance policy with an insurer through Atlanta.   
Atlantas representative said in its final response that Mr T bought the policy online on 29 
June 2019 with cover set to start three days later. It sent out the policy documentation and 
asked for proof of his no claims bonus (NCB). Two further requests for this were sent and 
in its letter of 15 July 2019 it confirmed if it didnt receive it within seven days the policy 
would be cancelled. As it didnt receive anything the policy was cancelled on 23 July 2019 
and it applied a cancellation charge.
Mr T is unhappy about this. Hes unhappy with the way Atlanta communicated with him and 
says he didnt receive some letters. He thinks it shouldve done more to get in touch with 
him. Hes also unhappy that he was charged a cancellation fee. Mr T says the cancellation is 
something he must now declare and its affecting the quotes he is now given for insurance.
Our investigator felt this complaint should not be upheld. He said:
Mr T was asked to provide proof of his NCB on three occasions. And the last letter 
said if he didnt provide it in seven days the policy would be cancelled. Mr T says he 
only received two of the three letters sent. But that isnt Atlantas fault. The initial 
letter he received also made clear what should be provided and when. It also wasnt 
required to send letters by recorded delivery or to follow things up with a call as Mr T 
suggests.
Mr T says it takes his previous insurer 21 days to provide proof of NCB. But he didnt 
tell Atlanta of this.
The cancellation charge applied was a reasonable amount to reflect Atlantas costs 
and it was mentioned in its terms and conditions.
Although Mr T has been negatively affected by the policy cancellation Atlanta and its 
representative didnt do anything wrong dealing with the cancellation of the policy. 
And he will not be asking it to do anything more.
 
Mr T doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. He says Atlanta shouldve 
used more than one means of communication.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.I think Atlanta adequately made Mr T aware of the necessity for him to send in proof of his 
NCB within seven days. It also warned him that if he didnt the policy would be cancelled. 
Its unfortunate if Mr T he didnt receive all the communications Atlanta sent. But he did get 
one on them which made clear his policy would be cancelled by the insurer if the information 
wasnt received in seven days. If Mr T knew his previous insurer would take 21 days to 
provide the necessary information he couldve contacted Atlanta but didnt do so.
Atlanta wasnt obliged to use alternate means to contact Mr T if it didnt hear from him, like 
phoning him, or to send its letters by recorded delivery as Mr T suggests.
The fee that would be applied if a policy is cancelled is set out in Atlantas terms and 
conditions which Mr T had. The fee also doesnt appear unreasonable or excessive. And I 
think it likely fairly reflect the costs Atlanta would incur in setting up and then cancelling the 
policy. 
Taking everything into account I think Atlanta has acted reasonably. And although I 
recognise Mr Ts frustration, I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed 
outcome in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman