DRN-3719750
The complaint
Mrs N, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
What happened
Mrs N was advanced six home collected loans between November 2013 and March 2019. 
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
40 £800.00 14/11/2013 04/12/2014 50 £28.00
41 £600.00 04/12/2014 10/12/2015 50 £21.00
42 £600.00 10/12/2015 08/12/2016 52 £21.00
43 £500.00 08/12/2016 08/12/2017 52 £17.50
44 £500.00 15/03/2018 05/03/2019 52 £17.50
45 £200.00 05/03/2019 12/11/2019 33 £10.00
The numbering of the loans in the table above is based on Morses table that it provided the 
Financial Ombudsman as part of its submission as well as what was outlined in the final 
response letter. It is also the same numbering used by the adjudicator in her assessment. 
Morses has told us it is likely these earlier loans were provided by a different company. This 
other companys loan book was acquired by Morses in March 2014, and it only took 
responsibility for any loans that were still active at the time of purchase. Therefore, this 
decision will only be able to deal with the loans listed in the table above.
Morses explained in its final response letter that it had carried out affordability checks before 
the loans were advanced and based on the information it received it was reasonable to lend. 
Mrs Ns representative didnt accept this and referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable 
decision to provide loans 40 and 41 so she didnt uphold Mrs Ns complaint about these 
loans. But she thought the lending was now harmful for Mrs N by the time loan 42 was 
granted and so she upheld Mrs Ns complaint about this and all later loans. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. Ive summarised its 
comments below;
Mrs Ns borrowing decreased between loans 42 and 43 and loans 44 and 45 which 
led to a reduction in her weekly repayments. 
Loans were repaid within the contractual due date. 
Adequate affordability checks were carried out which showed Mrs N was able to 
afford these loans. 
Mrs N only had one loan outstanding at the time. 
Mrs Ns representative confirmed receipt of the assessment, but no further comments have 
been provided. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs N could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mrs Ns income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs N. These factors include:
Mrs N having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs N having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs N coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs N.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs N could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs N was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ns complaint.
Neither Morses nor Mrs N (or her representative) appear to have disagreed with the 
outcome the adjudicator reached about loans 40 and 41. I therefore no longer think these 
loans are in dispute. I say no more about them. Instead this decision will focus on whether Morses made reasonable decisions to provide 
loan 42  45. 
Loans 42 - 45
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Mrs N for details of her income and 
expenditure. She declared, for each loan an income of between £130 and £224 with 
outgoings of between £53 and £140 per week. This left Mrs N with a weekly disposable 
income of at least £69 per week for each loan to make her weekly repayments of no more 
than £21. 
Based solely on Mrs Ns income and expenditure information Morses couldve been 
confident she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to 
making. 
But, its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Mrs N had 
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment (and the period of time that 
commitment was due to be paid over) and what Morses already knew about Mrs Ns 
finances. For example, Mrs N usually was returning for further borrowing on the same day a 
previous loan had been repaid. 
By this point in the lending relationship, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at 
the very least, started to have verified the information it was being given especially because 
it was aware that Mrs N had taken 39 previous loans with the other loan company. Ive not 
seen anything to suggest Morses carried out further checks in this case beyond the checks 
Ive outlined above. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Mrs N because Morses 
also needed to consider whether these loans were sustainable for Mrs N. 
So in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Mrs N, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ns case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 42. I say this because:
I cant ignore, although I dont have details , that these werent Mrs Ns first loans  
while these are the first loans that Morses are responsible for, it does seem Morses 
was aware of at least 39 previous loans. Whether or not this lending was broken 
down into different chains, I dont know. But it would suggest that there was an 
already well-established lending history. 
At this point (loan 42) Morses ought to have realised Mrs N was not managing to 
repay her loans sustainably. Mrs N had taken out at least two in the previous two 
years. So Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs N was 
having to borrow further to cover a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
From her first loan, Mrs N was provided with a new loan, usually on the same day a 
previous loan was repaid. To me, this was a sign that Mrs N was using these loans to 
fill a long-term gap in her income rather than as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Mrs Ns weekly commitments generally 
decreased then plateaued. However, I dont think you can say they sustainably decreased, given the amount of time it took for this lending to reduce and the fact the 
reductions were generally quite small.  While this may have given Morses confidence 
that Mrs N was no longer reliant on these loans. However, the fact that these loans 
were lent in a consecutive manner, ought to have led it to realise these loans werent 
sustainable anymore. 
Mrs N wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. While loan 
45 was the smallest loan to date, it was taken out over five years after loan 40 was 
granted. I dont think the fact that this was the smallest loan to date, is a 
demonstration that her borrowing continuously reducing as it took a number of years 
to reach this point  and she was committing herself to be indebted for a further 33 
weeks. Mrs N had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mrs N lost out when Morses provided loans 42 - 45 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ns indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs N borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mrs Ns ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mrs Ns complaint about loans 42 - 45. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it hadnt lent loans 42 to 45, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs N may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs N in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs N would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Mrs N with loans 42 - 45. 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs N towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs N which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs N originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C. Morses should pay Mrs N the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Mrs Ns borrowing for loans 42 - 45 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so you should remove these loans entirely from 
Mrs Ns credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Ns complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs N as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman