DRN-3684583
The complaint
Mr D complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) damaged his credit file and 
should compensate him for the losses hes incurred as a result.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
As this complaint relates to regulated consumer credit agreements our service is able to look 
into complaints about them.  
Theres no dispute that the broker told Mr D that hard searches wouldnt be completed on 
the three deals he was considering, but that they were. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for what they say and for what is said by 
a credit broker or supplier before the consumer takes out the credit agreement. So, I think 
Oodle can be held liable for the inaccurate information provided to Mr D.
The impact on Mr Ds credit file
Mr D says his credit file was damaged by the hard searches and that hes been unable to re-
mortgage or obtain preferential credit card balance transfers. Ive seen a copy of the credit 
file Mr D sent to us from December 2021. Whilst the credit file shows Mr D is keeping up with 
payments and I cant see any recent adverse information reported, there is quite a lot of 
unsecured debt and several credit cards with high credit limits. I think this is likely to have 
had a greater impact on Mr Ds ability to secure further credit than the impact of any 
searches, but thats not to say the searches wouldnt have had some impact on his 
creditworthiness.
The impact on Mr D
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Mr D failed to secure credit as a direct result of the 
searches being reported. So, I dont think theres evidence of financial loss.
Mr D has explained that hes had to take a lease agreement out and has had to hire cars 
whilst the deal he had with Oodle was being unwound. 
Ive listened to the call Mr D had with Oodle and on that call it was explained, and Mr D 
accepted, that Oodle would refund a maximum of £25 per day for seven days to cover hire 
car costs whilst the unwind was taking place. That seems fair and I can see that the 
agreement was unwound in a reasonable period of time. I dont therefore think it would be 
fair to expect Oodle to refund the hire and lease costs Mr D has incurred. There was never 
an agreement to pay more than £25 per day for seven days.
Oodle removed the hard searches within a reasonable time frame, offered a loan at the 
original interest rate, and provided money towards car hire to cover any inconvenience 
during the unwind. In all of the circumstances, I think their actions were fair and reasonable 
and Im not asking them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman