DRN-3738731
The complaint
Miss L isnt happy with the service she received from Leeds Building Society (LBS) 
surrounding the transfer of her ISA to another ISA product upon maturity.
What happened
Miss L received a letter from LBS asking her to provide an instruction as to what she wanted 
to happen to her fixed rate ISA balance upon its impending maturity.
Miss L went online and instructed LBS to roll her maturing ISA balance into a new two-year 
fixed rate ISA. However, Miss L later discovered that her instruction hadnt been followed 
and that her ISA balance had been rolled over into a different ISA product which paid a less 
favourable rate of interest. Miss L wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint. 
LBS looked at Miss Ls complaint. They noted that Miss L had given an online instruction to 
transfer her maturing ISA balance into a two-year bond, and that because this would have 
resulted in Miss Ls ISA balance being taken out of the ISA wrapper, and thus losing the 
benefits that an ISA provides, theyd emailed Miss L to request confirmation of this request. 
LBS also noted that Miss L hadnt then given any confirmation, and so they didnt feel theyd 
acted unfairly by rolling the ISA balance over into the ISA product that they had.
However, LBS did acknowledge that they hadnt responded to Miss Ls complaint about this 
matter in a timely manner, and they apologised to Miss L for this and offered to pay £50 to 
her as compensation for any trouble and upset she may have incurred. Miss L wasnt 
satisfied with LBSs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel LBS had acted unfairly 
in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Miss L 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the testimonies of both Miss L and LBS as well as various items of 
correspondence between Miss L and LBS and a recording of a telephone conversation 
where Miss L first raises her concerns about the status of her ISA balance with LBS.
Having done so, I feel that whats most likely to have happened here is that Miss L, having 
gone online to provide LBS with her instruction regarding the maturing ISA balance, 
mistakenly instructed LBS to transfer the balance to a two-year bond, having believed that 
she was in fact instructing LBS to transfer the balance to a two-year ISA product and not 
being aware that her instruction to transfer the balance to a bond meant that she was 
instructing LBS to move her ISA balance out of an ISA wrapper which would have 
implications for Miss L in regard to both tax and her ISA balance moving forwards.
I say this because of both the letter sent to Miss L by LBS dated 22 March 2019 which stated 
that Miss L had requested the ISA balance be transferred to a two-year bond, and also 
because Miss L herself stated, when speaking on the telephone to LBS, that she had a note 
saying shed requested the transfer to the two-year bond having gone online the day 
previous to the letter, on 21 March 2019.
Having listened to that phone call, its clear to me that Miss L had believed that she was in 
fact requesting for the balance to be transferred to the two-year fixed rate ISA which had 
been given to her as one of the options on a letter sent by LBS dated 18 March 2019. And 
Im satisfied that Miss Ls request to transfer the balance to a bond was a genuine mistake 
and that she didnt realise that this transfer would have resulted in her ISA balance being 
taken out of an ISA wrapper. And its also evident from that conversation that Miss L was 
relieved to discover that her ISA balance remained within an ISA wrapper  albeit not having 
been transferred to the two-year fixed rate ISA she had wanted to transfer the balance to.
LBS recognised the implications that Miss Ls instruction to transfer the balance out of an 
ISA into a bond may have had, and so I feel it was fair for them to have sought to gain 
confirmation from Miss L that this was indeed the course of action she wanted to take.
To that effect, LBS sent Miss L an email on 25 March 2019  although unfortunately it seems 
that Miss L didnt receive this email. Miss L has noted that all previous correspondence from 
LBS had been received by letter, and has therefore asked why LBS didnt sent her a letter in 
this instance also, but instead sent an email?
I can appreciate Miss Ls position here. But it must be acknowledged that Miss Ls ISA 
balance was due to mature on Monday 1 April 2019, which was exactly one week after LBS 
sent the email to her on Monday 25 March 2019. 
As such, given that there were only five working days until the date of maturity, it seems 
reasonable to me that LBS would seek to communicate with Miss L by email  which can be 
a quicker means of communication that by posted letter  although I do feel that it would 
have been preferable if Nationwide had also sent an accompanying letter to Miss L advising 
that they had emailed her about an important matter on 25 March 2019 and asking her to 
respond urgently to that email.
That being said, I also feel that there were numerous opportunities for Miss L to have noticed 
that her ISA balance hadnt been rolled over in the manner she wanted, and to have 
contacted LBS about this at a reasonably early time. These include that Miss Ls online 
account displayed the nature of the ISA saver account into which the balance had been 
rolled into, as well as various letters received by Miss L from LBS  such as statements and 
notifications that the interest rate on the ISA saver account was being reduced  which Miss 
L has confirmed she received but thought had been sent to her by LBS in error.
Ultimately, while I feel that what happened here surrounding Miss L mistakenly requesting 
the transfer of her ISA balance to a bond was unfortunate, I dont feel that it constitutes an 
unfair action or inaction on the part of LBS. And this is because I feel that LBS acted 
reasonably by not transferring the ISA balance to the bond without confirmation from Miss L 
that she wanted that transfer to happen  which wouldnt have been provided once Miss L 
was aware of the consequences of that transfer  or by rolling over the ISA balance into the 
ISA product that they did  which was in-line with what LBS explained in their initial letter 
dated 18 March 2019 that they would do in the absence of a viable instruction from Miss L. 
Miss L may contend that my position here is based on a conjecture  that she mistakenly 
requested the ISA balance be rolled into a bond. But, even if this conjecture is incorrect, and 
it was LBS that made some form of error that led to them thinking that Miss L had requested the rolling of the balance into a bond and not an ISA product  which I feel is less likely to 
have happened than Miss L making that mistake herself  it remains the case that, as 
explained, I also feel that Miss L herself had many opportunities to recognise what had 
happened in regard to her ISA balance before she actually did.
But unfortunately, Miss L didnt realise what had happened until August 2020, by which time 
it was the second tax year after her ISA maturity date on 1 April 2019  the 2019/20 tax year 
having passed completely in the interim  and therefore reasonably at a time when LBS 
couldnt go back and retrospectively complete Miss Ls instructions as shed intended to 
provide them. 
Finally, in regard to how long it took LBS to acknowledge Miss Ls complaint, it isnt generally 
within the remit of this service to consider how a business has handled a complaint  even a 
complaint about a financial matter such as this. However, in this instance I note that LBS 
have accepted that they didnt acknowledge Miss Ls complaint when they first should have 
done and have apologised to Miss L for this and made an offer to pay £50 as compensation 
for any trouble and upset she may have incurred as a result. This offer seems reasonable to 
me, and I wont be instructing LBS to make any additional offer beyond this.
I realise this might not be the outcome Miss L was wanting, but it follows from the above that 
I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing LBS to take any further action  given that 
Im satisfied that whats happened here is unfortunate, but not unfair. I hope that Miss L will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman