The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Acromas Insurance Company Limited wouldnt cover the costs of 
using her own solicitor or her costs in getting to and through the ACAS (Advisory, 
Conciliation and Arbitration Service) process in her employment tribunal dispute. The policy 
is a legal expenses insurance.
What happened
Mrs B wanted to claim against her former employers (H). So she involved a solicitor. The 
solicitor acted on her behalf, but no agreement could be reached with H and Mrs B decided 
to escalate her claim towards the employment tribunal. To get to the tribunal stage the 
parties usually have to go through the ACAS process.
Acromas said the policy only provided cover for legal proceedings. It said there was no cover 
for early conciliation or ACAS. It said the costs would only be covered for the legal 
proceedings stage once the case had passed through to the employment tribunal.
Acromas also said it wouldnt offer her freedom of choice to use her own solicitor maintaining 
that ACAS didnt amount to legal proceedings. But it did offer Mrs B the chance to use one of 
its own panel solicitors. Mrs B chose not to take up the option and continued to use her own 
solicitor.
Once the ACAS process was completed and the certificate issued Mrs Bs solicitors 
contacted Acromas again and it accepted Mrs Bs own solicitor could be used at this point 
and it accepted this was now legal proceedings. After the case had been concluded Mrs B 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she was only dealing with the 
complaint about Acromas and not about the sale and documentation which Mrs B would 
need to complain separately about to the broker. Our investigator said Acromas offer to 
provide a panel solicitor was fair. She said it was reasonable it wouldnt accept Mrs Bs own 
solicitor because no legal proceedings had started at this stage. But it was fair that Acromas 
did allow Mrs B freedom of choice once the case reached the legal proceedings stage. In 
relation to the legal proceedings point our investigator said the early conciliation process 
wasnt legal proceedings so Acromas had acted fairly when it declined to deal with this part 
of the claim. Mrs B didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1387623reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Freedom of choice
In relation to legal representation the policy says:
If your legal claim has reasonable prospects we will choose an appointed representative to 
act on your behalfYou may choose another representative if there is a conflict of interest 
with a representative appointed by us or there is an inquiry or legal proceedings are about to 
be commenced.
Regarding both the policy terms and conditions and as a matter of law policyholders 
generally dont get to choose their own solicitor to act on their behalf until legal proceedings 
need to be issued. Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies (legal Expenses Insurance) 
Regulations 1990 says: 
where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or other 
person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or serve the 
interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be free to choose that 
lawyer (or other person)
The regulations refer to any inquiry or proceedings means when it becomes necessary to 
issue court proceedings, or proceedings in another formal place of inquiry.
I think the policy is clear on this. Acromas offered a solicitor when it felt it was appropriate to 
and accepted Mrs Bs solicitor once the case reached the legal proceedings stage. This 
service agrees that any customer has the right to choose their own solicitor once the case 
reaches the point where legal proceedings are to be issued. But up to that point an insurer 
can usually insist on a solicitor from its panel. Its only at the point where negotiations have 
failed and its necessary to issue proceedings that the customer can choose their own 
solicitor. I think thats what the policy covers, its what happened here, and so I think 
Acromas fairly applied this term to Mrs Bs claim.
Legal proceedings
I understand the point Mrs B and her solicitor is making. She said it was all legal 
proceedings as she had to go through the ACAS process to take her case on to the 
employment tribunal. I dont think Acromas has disputed that Mrs B had to go through the 
ACAS process. But it said the matter only became legal proceedings once the ACAS 
process concluded. Acromas said there was no cover for the early conciliation stage through 
ACAS.
I accept Acromas point here. The ACAS process is an early conciliation in the hope of 
avoiding the case going to the tribunal, so it isnt legal proceedings at this stage. Acromas 
said its only after this the legal proceedings take over and at that point it accepted the claim 
and agreed to Mrs Bs solicitor acting on her behalf. I think thats fair.
This service accepts that not all initial disputes end up in court. Some issues will be resolved 
at inquiry or pre-litigation stage. All of this is before the tribunal process starts and so they 
arent considered as part of formal legal proceedings. We take the meaning of inquiry or 
proceedings to include judicial or similar processes. Mrs B has referred to the fact its 
mandatory  she couldnt start the tribunal claim without going through this process first. 
That may be so, but its the nature of the process that matters and ACAS isnt a formal  
inquiry or judicial process.Because the early conciliation is not part of an inquiry or legal proceedings I dont think 
Acromas needs to offer costs towards Mrs Bs solicitor for any of the initial stages. I think it 
acted reasonably when it declined to pay for any work undertaken up to the point it accepted 
that the issue became legal proceedings.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Acromas Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman