DRN-3197472
The complaint
Mr N complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse money he lost when he says he fell 
victim to a scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
Mr N wanted to buy some cryptocurrency. He came across a broker, which Ill call B 
and placed money onto its platform to buy cryptocurrency at a later date. Between 10 
February and 11 May 2021, Mr N loaded £12,185 onto the platform. 
When Mr N was looking to convert his money to cryptocurrency, the app he used 
crashed and when he managed to access the account, his money had gone. Mr N 
tried complaining to B about this matter, but he said it couldnt explain where his 
money had gone. 
Mr N raised a scam claim with Barclays as B has been banned from operating in the 
UK since June 2021. Barclays attempted to recover the funds from the recipient 
account but without success. And it declined to reimburse Mr N as it said what 
happened wasnt a scam. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as they were in agreement that B was a 
legitimate company and so Mr N hadnt been scammed; that it was later banned from 
operating in the UK didnt change that. 
Mr N has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He doesnt believe 
Barclays attempted to recover the funds; B being banned is evidence it was 
operating illegally; he was advised by Action Fraud and Citizens Advice to pursue 
this matter through his bank; Barclays should never had allowed a payment to go to a 
business that wasnt authorised. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of this 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Mr N was loading money onto a genuine cryptocurrency platform. I accept that B had 
requirements placed on it by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in June 2021 
following a supervisory notice. The notice said B wasnt carrying on regulated 
activities  and running a cryptocurrency platform doesnt need to be regulated  and 
that it had failed to adequately respond to some concerns put to it. Whilst the notice 
did speak of the high-risk and complex products it offered, at no point did the notice 
say B wasnt a legitimate company or that it was scamming customers  that is, 
pretending to be a cryptocurrency exchange when in reality it was stealing 
customers money. Im satisfied B was, and still is, a legitimate business, albeit it 
cant carry out authorised activities in the UK. 
As the notice wasnt live at the time of the transactions it cant be something that 
Barclays could reasonably have taken account of. But even if it was, as 
cryptocurrency isnt a regulated product, and offering a crypto exchange platform isnt 
a regulated activity, I find no basis on which to uphold Mr Ns complaint for that 
reason; there are many legitimate crypto exchange platforms in the market that arent 
authorised by the FCA. Unless there was any indication of a customer being at risk of 
being scammed, there wouldnt be any basis for banks to refuse to carry out its 
customers properly authorised payment request, and there is no dispute that Mr N 
authorised the payments.  
Banks and other payment services providers do have a duty to protect customers 
from the risk of financial loss due to fraud. But there is no duty or obligation to protect 
a customer from bad investments choices, or to stop them from loading money onto 
a legitimate platform to use at later date to buy cryptocurrency. Put simply, if there is 
no fraud or scam, there is no duty or obligation for a bank to intervene in a payment. 
Im therefore not persuaded that Barclays ought to have intervened when Mr N made 
his payments to B. 
It appears from what Mr N has told us that he lost the money he loaded onto Bs 
platform as a result of a system error or glitch. I dont find any reasonable basis on 
which Barclays could or should be held responsible for what happens on another 
partys platform. That is a matter for B. I appreciate Mr N hasnt had much luck with 
getting a response from B, but that also isnt a matter for Barclays, nor is it something 
we can look into either (as B doesnt fall within our jurisdiction). That is something Mr 
N will need to pursue further with B, through whatever avenues might be open to him. 
Finally, Barclays records show it contacted the recipient account to try and recover 
the funds on 20 May 2021.  The recipient didnt reply until late June 2021 to explain 
that no funds remained in the account to recover. Whilst Mr N might doubt that took 
place, he hasnt provided us with any persuasive evidence in support of his belief. I 
find Barclayss records more persuasive than Mr Ns unsupported belief. 
Overall, I dont find Barclays did anything wrong and so I wont be asking it to 
reimburse Mr N. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman