DRN-3260606
The complaint
A business, that Ill refer to as P, complain that American International Group UK Limited 
(AIG) declined their claim for business interruption.
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
These restrictions had a significant impact on P, and they experienced loss of revenues, 
cancelled orders, falling demand and staff absence. They had to continue to pay expenses 
whilst the business wasnt operational. 
P held a business insurance policy with AIG. This included business interruption cover, so 
they made a claim. But AIG declined it. It said the policy primarily covered P for business 
interruption arising from damage. And that Covid-19 couldnt be considered damage by the 
policy definition. 
It said there was cover for manifestations of certain kinds of diseases at, or within 25 miles of 
Ps premises. But that Covid-19 wasnt one of the specified diseases the policy covered.
P complained to us, but our investigator thought the policy terms had been applied fairly. 
P didnt agree, noting in particular that the policy covered SARS. Ive therefore been asked 
to make a final decision. They provided documents in support of their argument that:
Covid-19 is caused by a virus called SARS-Cov-2 (severe acute respiratory 
syndrome coronavirus 2); 
The virus is genetically linked to the coronavirus which causes SARS. The two 
viruses share more similarities than differences;
The World Health Organisation (WHO) said it chose to refer to SARS-Cov-2 as the 
Covid-19 virus to avoid creating fear for some populations, especially in Asia which 
was worst affected by the SARS outbreak in 2003;
The WHO has said that use of the term Covid-19 virus is not intended to replace the 
official name (SARS-Cov-2);
Various official sources refer to the virus as SARS-Cov-2;
P feel that, as the virus that causes Covid-19 is genetically related, and shares a number of 
similarities with, the virus that causes SARS, and is itself called SARS-Cov-2, their claim 
should be accepted.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the government restrictions had a considerable financial impact on P. With that in 
mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether AIG should have met 
their claim. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in full, Ive only addressed the elements of cover 
most relevant to Ps claim below. The burden of proof initially rests with P to show, on 
balance, theyve suffered a loss their policy covers. 
Damage
Both the core business interruption cover in Ps policy, and many of the extensions to that 
cover (including Denial of Access), are based on an interruption to the business which has 
been caused by Damage or an Incident. These words are defined in the policy.
Damage is defined as physical loss or destruction of or damage to Property. An Incident 
is defined as an Event of Damage to insured Property In summary, P would have to 
show there had been physical loss or destruction of or damage to property.
I havent seen anything to indicate Covid-19, or the Governments response to it, caused 
physical loss or destruction of or damage to the types of property mentioned in either the 
core business interruption cover, or the extensions to that cover requiring damage. 
Of the non-damage extensions to Ps business interruption cover, the only one Ive identified 
that could potentially be of relevance here is the cover for Infectious Diseases, which Ive 
addressed below. 
Infectious Diseases
This extension covers P for:
interruption of or interference with Your Business in consequence of closure of the 
Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local 
authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an ADS-related condition) manifested by any 
person whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises
Disease is defined in the policy to mean:
any of the following diseases sustained by any person acute encephalitis acute 
infectious hepatitis acute meningitis acute poliomyelitis anthrax botulism brucellosis 
cholera diphtheria enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid) food poisoning haemolytic 
uraemic syndrome(HUS) infectious bloody diarrhoea invasive group A streptococcal 
disease legionellosis leprosy malaria measles meningococcal septicaemia mumps 
plague rabies rubella SARS scarlet fever smallpox tetanus tuberculosis typhus viral 
haemorrhagic fever (VHF) whooping cough and yellow fever 
Ive considered Ps arguments about the inclusion of SARS in this list. I think its important to 
distinguish between the relevant viruses, and the diseases they cause. SARS is a disease 
(severe acute respiratory syndrome) caused by a virus called SARS-Cov, whereas Covid-19 
is a disease caused by a virus called SARS-Cov-2. 
SARS-Cov and SARS-Cov-2 are genetically related coronaviruses. Im satisfied though that 
the disclaimer set out on the WHOs website (while related, the two viruses are different) is 
a credible representation of a consensus that they are two different, albeit related, viruses.  The definition of Disease sets out a list of diseases, not viruses. In that context, SARS is 
the name of a disease (severe acute respiratory syndrome), not a categorisation of viruses, 
nor an umbrella term for any disease caused by a SARS coronavirus. I dont think Covid-19 
is covered on the basis that SARS is listed under the definition of Infectious Disease. 
SARS and Covid-19 are two different diseases, as supported by the fact that they appear 
separately in the Governments list of notifiable diseases, and by the WHOs description of 
Covid-19 as a new disease in February 2020. As above, they are caused by two different, 
albeit related, viruses. They arent two different names for, or outbreaks of, the same thing. 
The passages P have highlighted regarding the preference of the WHO to refer to the virus 
as the Covid-19 virus, and which clarify that the intention is not for this to replace the official 
name (SARS-Cov-2), refer to the virus, not the disease. They dont mean that SARS-Cov-2 
is the official name of Covid-19 (the disease), or that Covid-19 is SARS by another name. 
As Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases included in the list of diseases set out under 
the definition of Disease, Im satisfied this extension wouldnt cover interruption caused by 
the restrictions introduced to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
I recognise Covid-19 wasnt something AIG might have known about when the policy was 
drafted and have considered this point carefully. But there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which does now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that 
subsequently became notifiable. 
In contrast, Ps policy includes a list of specific diseases. And theres nothing in the policy 
which implies that cover will be provided for diseases not on the list, including any new 
diseases which emerge, and / or that become notifiable at a later date. Im satisfied the list 
has the purpose and effect of limiting cover to manifestations of those diseases mentioned in 
the list. 
Whilst I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to P, as this is a matter they 
feel strongly about, I havent found that theyve demonstrated, on balance, theyve suffered a 
loss that their policy covers. Im therefore not directing AIG to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman