DRN-2684565
The complaint
Ms W complains about the advice she received from Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
when she sent money abroad.
What happened
Ms W says she went to a Halifax branch in July 2020 to transfer £20,000 to her sons 
account in Thailand. She says asked Halifax staff which currency she should send the 
money in and says she was told most people send in US Dollars. Ms W says she followed 
this advice, but the money ought to have been sent in Sterling and as a result there was a 
loss of about £700 which she would like refunding.
Halifax doesnt accept making a mistake and says Ms W selected the currency and asked it 
which currency most people used.
Ms W brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Ms W decided to select the currency and it was her responsibility to make sure it 
was the correct one.
Ms W doesnt accept that view and says she was advised which currency to us and that 
meant greater profit for Halifax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms W will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Ms Ws letter of complaint and can see she made clear she asked 
Halifax what currency should I send?. I think that was in response to the three currency 
options she was given. Ms W has also told us that Halifax staff told her most send US 
Dollars. Im satisfied in those circumstances that Ms W wasnt given any actual advice by 
Halifax and was simply told which currency most customers use. I find Ms W then selected 
the currency choice herself. So, it follows I dont think Halifax made a mistake or acted 
unfairly.
Im satisfied Ms W authorised the transaction in the currency she selected. I also think that if 
Ms W had any doubt about the correct currency, she could have contacted her son as I think 
that Halifax staff would not be aware of the currency he wished to receive.
I appreciate Ms W says she lost about £700. But I dont think that loss was due to a mistake 
by Halifax and so I cant fairly order Halifax to pay for that loss. I also dont think Halifax has 
benefited from the currency choice or that it matters here and think on balance that any 
exchange rate costs would have been applied in Thailand by other banks and not by Halifax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman