DRN-4134268
The complaint
Mr K complains about what happened when he asked The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc 
(TMW) to transfer the buy to let mortgage on a property formerly owned by him and his ex- 
wife, into his sole name, as part of his divorce settlement.
What happened
Mr K told us hed asked TMW to consent to a transfer of the mortgage on his buy to let 
property, from the joint names of him and his ex-wife, to him alone. He said this took an 
unacceptable length of time  going well beyond the deadline set in the court order. He said 
during this time, TMWs procedures changed, meaning he got an alarming request to pay 
£100,000 before the mortgage could be transferred.
Mr K said all his attempts to get in touch with TMW were fruitless - it took a long time to 
contact TMW and when he did get through, staff couldnt help. Mr K said TMWs delays cost 
him a significant amount, with over £600 in solicitors costs alone. He wanted TMW to pay 
for that, and to pay him compensation. He said the refund of the administration fee TMW had 
charged, an amount of £150, didnt make up for what had gone wrong.
TMW said it did think it had caused some delays. It had sent one email to the wrong 
address, and its underwriters were particularly busy at the time, meaning there were delays 
in responding to Mr Ks responses to their requests. TMW said it was sorry about that, and it 
paid Mr K £150.
Our investigator said she thought this complaint should be upheld in part, but TMW didnt 
have to pay as much as Mr K wanted. She said TMW had told us most of the delays in this 
case werent its fault.
Our investigator said TMW wasnt a party to the court order, and wasnt bound by it, so she 
wouldnt say TMW did anything wrong by completing the transfer in around six months as 
opposed to the three to four months recommended by the court.
Our investigator said the evidence shed seen was that TMWs procedures hadnt changed 
during the course of this application. The money it had asked Mr K to pay, at one point, 
wasnt a mistake, and wasnt due to any change in policy.
But our investigator did think TMW had contributed to the confusion and miscommunication 
here. When Mr K called TMW for clarification, hed told us the advisers werent helpful and 
confused the matter further. So, she did think further compensation should be paid.
Our investigator said Mr K did have to pay TMWs administration fee of £150. She didnt 
think TMW had refunded that, what it had done was pay the same amount, £150, in 
compensation. It was just coincidence that the compensation TMW had paid to date was the 
same amount as the fee Mr K had paid.
Our investigator also didnt think TMW had to pay Mr Ks solicitors bill. She thought those 
were fees that Mr K would have paid anyway. Shed seen no evidence of additional work 
that the solicitors had done, which was attributable to something TMW did wrong.
Our investigator said TMW should pay an additional £150 for the trouble and upset its delays 
had caused Mr K. But she didnt think it had to do more than this.
Mr K didnt agree. He said his solicitors had confirmed that hed been charged £621.60 for 
extra work solely due to TMW, and wed ignored this evidence. He said he shouldnt be left 
out of pocket. Mr K wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold a small part of this overall complaint. This is what I said then: 
Ill start with Mr Ks solicitors bill. That bill is for £500 plus VAT in fees, and £18 plus 
VAT in disbursements. I think its most likely that the disbursements are not payable 
because of any errors arguably made by TMW, but that they are an ordinary part of this 
transaction. So I think this part of Mr Ks bill must be disregarded from the outset.
Mr K said the work on this bill was solely due to TMWs mistakes. But I note that this 
isnt clear from the bill itself, or from the covering email, which simply refers to this as 
additional work spent on the file in obtaining the Consent from the Lender and the 
continued chasing. The email doesnt clarify whether this work was additional to other 
work the solicitors had done for Mr K on his divorce, or additional to the work they 
expected to have to do, in a simpler transfer. So I think this evidence unfortunately does 
not resolve the question of whether TMW caused extra legal work in this case, which Mr 
K had to pay for.
Mr K also says TMW hasnt paid compensation. But, like our investigator, I think it has 
paid £150. I havent been able to see any reason why the administration fee of £150 
would not be due in this case. So I think that a payment by TMW to Mr K of this amount 
has been made as a way of making up for the complaint. Mr K says that isnt enough, 
and Ill return to this below.
Mr K said TMWs procedures changed, which meant he was asked to pay £100,000. But 
TMW said there was no relevant procedure change during this period. It has shown us 
that it asked Mr K for a large capital payment towards the mortgage debt, because the 
rent was less than it was expecting. Mr K then told TMW about a rent increase, and 
TMW reconsidered. I dont think this was a mistake, or was due to any delays in this 
case, however caused.
Like our investigator, I dont think TMW was bound to comply with the court order in this 
case. But I would still say it ought to have acted reasonably promptly to process Mr Ks 
request. There clearly were delays, the process took around seven months in total. The 
delays TMW has accepted it caused  in sending a wrong email, and in waiting for 
underwriters to be available to consider Mr Ks application  seem to me to account for 
only a very small proportion of this time. So I need to see what the cause of the 
remaining delays was.
Our investigator suggested Mr K could have done more to complete this transfer, and 
said that was why she didnt think TMW needed to pay more. I think it might help to set out a timeline, to help decide if there was more Mr K could have done. So Ive put 
together a timeline from TMWs contact notes.
If Mr K or his solicitors wish to dispute this, they may offer more evidence in response to 
my provisional decision. This is what I currently think happened. The timeline starts in 
late 2021, and continues into 2022.
28 October  TMW got Mr Ks application to move this mortgage into his sole 
name.
10 November  TMW requested additional information from Mr K.
17 November  TMW received some requested documents.
25 November  TMW recorded the details of Mr Ks solicitor.
30 November  TMW said it still needed the tax Calculation and Overview for tax 
year 20/21. TMW accepts it sent this email request to the wrong address.
10 December  TMW resent the request for the tax Calculation and Overview, to 
the right address. Mr K replied right away to say it wouldnt be available until 
February 2022.
14 December - TMW emailed Mr K to say this request was a mistake, and it 
forwarded this case to its underwriters.
21 December  the underwriters raised a query, asking for the tax Overview for 
20/21. They pointed out that Mr K had already supplied his tax Calculation for 
that period, so must also have an Overview. They also asked for property 
details.
22 December  TMW asked Mr K for the Tax Overview and property details.
11 January  TMW got a reply with some documents.
20 January  TMWs underwriters asked again for the tax Overview for year 
20/21, they said Mr K had sent 19/20, and they wanted the up to date Overview.
25 January  TMW asked again for the tax Overview for 20/21, requested on 10 
December; and for an estimated value for the property, first requested on 21 
December.
2 February  TMW received the property valuation, but not the tax Overview. It 
replied to Mr K, to say hed sent the wrong tax document, not the Overview it had 
asked for.
4 March  TMW received the requested information.
10 March  TMW referred the case to underwriters again.
22 March  TMWs underwriters replied, and TMW told Mr K he would need to 
repay £96,255 to take on this mortgage.
29 March - Mr K contacted TMW and said the rent had since increased, and he 
wanted TMW to reconsider.
11 April  TMW received further information, presumably proof of Mr Ks 
increased rental income.
18 April  TMW provided its consent to the transfer of equity into Mr Ks sole 
name. There is no mention of a capital repayment here, so this appears to be a 
different decision. Mr K is asked to pay the £150 amin fee.
21 April  Mr K complained about how long this had taken.
6 May  TMW received Mr Ks administration fee of £150.
12 May  Mr K says documents were sent to TMW by his solicitors.
30 May  Mr K follows up on documents sent on 12 May. TMW says these were 
not received, and it hadnt heard from Mr Ks solicitors since it approved the 
transfer on 18 April.
1 June  TMW said the transfer to Mr K was complete.So Mr Ks remortgage and transfer took from 28 October 2021 to 1 June 2022, just over 
seven months. But, during that time, it appears there was a request outstanding for Mr 
Ks tax Overview for 20/21. This request does appear to have reached him on 10 
December, if not before, and it wasnt fulfilled until 4 March, almost three months later.
Whilst I accept Mr K was at some points told his application could go ahead without the 
requested tax Overview, I think that was because hed said it wasnt available, when 
TMW has explained why it considered it was. So my current view is that Mr K is 
primarily responsible for that delay.
Similarly, Mr K appears to have been asked for a property valuation on 22 December 
2021, and that doesnt appear to have been supplied until 2 February 2022
Additionally, TWM approved the transfer request on 18 April 2022, but says it didnt 
receive the fee until 6 May, and didnt get the documents until the very end of May or 
start of June, almost a month and a half later.
I dont think, on the evidence Ive seen to date, that TMW caused the delay in actioning 
the transfer, which happened around six weeks after it was approved.
So, four and a half of the seven months that this process took, does currently appear to 
me to be attributable to delays which are not primarily the responsibility of TMW.
Ive noted that Mr K hasnt seen this timeline before, and I understand that either he or 
his solicitors, or perhaps both, may wish to challenge it. However, on my current 
understanding of this complaint, and for the reasons set out above, I think that an 
additional payment of £150, which our investigator proposed and which TMW has 
agreed to pay, would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So thats 
what I currently propose to award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TMW said that it accepted my provisional decision, and it would pay the additional 
compensation I suggested. Mr K replied to disagree.
Mr K started by taking issue with my comments on his solicitors bill. He said that the 
disbursements Id pointed to were the cost of searches, which he said had to be repeated 
because of the delays TMW caused. And he said that this solicitor only did this 
conveyancing for him, no other work on his divorce. He said that the extra work shown on 
this invoice was solely attributable to the mortgage, and he felt the invoice itself made that 
clear. He said if we didnt agree, we should contact his solicitor. 
I havent contacted Mr Ks solicitors about his complaint. I wouldnt expect that firm to be 
comfortable discussing the billing on Mr Ks account with our service, without having heard 
directly from him that they may do so. Thats why our service usually invites further evidence 
from the parties themselves, in circumstances like this. However, here, before I could decide 
that extra work had been caused by TMWs delays, as Mr K suggests, I would have to see 
that TMW was the cause of those delays. So I think its helpful to consider Mr Ks response 
to the timeline I sent. Ill turn to that below.Mr K also challenged my view that there was no evidence of a change in procedure or policy 
which meant he was asked to pay off some of the outstanding mortgage before TMW would 
transfer the borrowing to his sole name. He said if there was no such policy change, then 
how could he previously have borrowed that much money? Mr K said there must have been 
a change since that lending was agreed (which I note was in 2015) and when the new 
application was considered by TMW. Fortunately, the rental income had recently increased, 
and he didnt have to make this payment. 
Mr Ks initial complaint was understood by our service to have been that TMWs delays were 
so long, that there was a change in policy during the time that his application was being 
processed. Ive reviewed his original complaint to TMW, where he said this  
You changed your lending criteria during your delays
Had the information been processed in a timely manner I would not have been 
subject to the change in criteria and had a demand of £100k placed on me.
Ive also reviewed his original complaint to our service, where he said this  
TMW flim flammed and delayed responses for 5 months until I was forced to raise a 
complaint about them in Feb March 2022. During this time TMWs own mortgage 
criteria had changed to my detriment and they alarmed me (without any explanation - 
demanding an instant £100k mortgage repayment).
I dont think our service has made a mistake about the complaint Mr K originally made, and I 
still dont think theres any evidence TMWs procedures changed during the time that Mr Ks 
most recent application was under active consideration by it. 
I dont think I can consider now Mr Ks new contention, that the procedures had changed 
unfairly in the time between his previous joint application and this application in his sole 
name, because I cannot see that this has been put to TMW. Our service cant investigate 
complaints unless the business involved has had a chance to respond to them. So I wont 
look at that now. 
Mr K then commented on the timeline I set out in my provisional decision. He noted that 
TMW had repeatedly asked for a tax Calculation and Overview, for the tax year 20/21. Mr K 
said he couldnt possibly have supplied this  it would have been impossible to provide 
something to TMW that wasnt yet available to the tax authorities. The tax filing for that year 
wasnt due until the end of January 2022, 10 months after the year end. 
Mr K said that was why TMW had accepted on 14 December 2021 that this request was a 
mistake. But Id got this wrong, he said, and attributed this delay to him. He repeated this 
comment in response to TMWs further requests for the same document on 20 January and 
on 2 February. (Its not clear why, if tax documents had to be filed by the end of January 
2022 at the very latest, Mr K would also say these documents still werent available on 2 
February 2022.)
I do think TMW made two mistakes when it asked Mr K for his tax Overview. I noted the first 
in my provisional decision, where I said that TMW sent the initial request to the wrong email 
address. It corrected this mistake, and I didnt think this contributed substantively to the 
length of time it took to consider Mr Ks application. And I also noted the second, where 
TMW said on 14 December 2021 that it had requested Mr Ks tax overview by mistake. That 
was wrong. It hadnt. Its underwriters then pointed out that Mr K had already provided a tax 
Calculation for 20/21. He would only have that calculation if he had already filed his returns 
for 20/21. So if hed already filed his 20/21 return (which people are free to do as soon as the 20/21 tax year has ended in April 2021) and received a tax Calculation, he must also have 
the tax Overview. 
However, I noted in my provisional decision that this didnt mean TMW caused the delay 
between Mr K saying that the Calculation wasnt available, on 10 December 2021, and TMW 
asking for it again on 21 December. I explained I thought that delay was caused because Mr 
K said he didnt have a document which the underwriters reasonably believed he must have. 
So I dont think TMW did make a mistake in asking Mr K repeatedly for his tax Overview, or 
in waiting until this was eventually supplied before making any decision on his application. 
Mr K said that it was simply not true to say that his solicitors hadnt sent documents to TMW 
in mid-May 2022. But hes offered no evidence to support what he says about this. And 
TMW has shown us its contemporaneous notes. Those dont show the receipt of any 
documents in mid-May. And they do show TMW had checked again in late May, and was 
confident that nothing had been received. So I still think its most likely that nothing was 
received by TMW from Mr Ks solicitors on or shortly after 12 May 2022.
Mr K has invited our service to contact his solicitors if we didnt accept its billing was due to 
TMWs delays. But before I could ask TMW to pay for additional costs caused by delays, Id 
have to be able to see that those delays were TMWs fault. And, for the reasons set out 
above, Ive still not been able to see that the bulk of the delays in this case were TMWs 
fault. So I dont think additional evidence from his solicitors would assist in this case.
Mr K has also invited me to contact him directly if I was unclear. I havent done that, as I 
dont think there is a lack of clarity in this case. Rather, I think that Mr K and I unfortunately 
have not agreed. Ive reviewed this case in full, and I still dont think that the majority of the 
delays I can see here are due to TMW. So Im sorry to have to tell Mr K that I havent 
changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc must pay Mr K £150 in compensation, 
in addition to the £150 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman