DRN-4048659
The complaint
Ms B complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk
(MoneyBoat) gave her loans she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Ms B was advanced three instalment loans by MoneyBoat, and a summary of her borrowing 
can be found in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £400.00 19/11/2019 12/02/2020 4 £140.35
2 £600.00 10/03/2020 24/07/2020 5 £194.10
3 £600.00 07/09/2020 24/08/2022 6 £191.31
Ms B had some problems repaying her final loan and she says that she was told that she
would receive a County Court Judgment if she didnt agree to pay £210 per month towards
it. Ms B says the final loan balance has now been fully repaid and she has provided emails 
from MoneyBoat to show this.
Following Ms Bs complaint MoneyBoat wrote to her explaining why it wasnt going to uphold
her complaint. Ms B didnt agree, and she referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was reviewed by an adjudicator, and he didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint about
loan 1. But he thought loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been granted. For both loans, the
adjudicator reviewed the credit search results MoneyBoat had received and concluded that 
Ms B was left with very little money each month after the repayment of these loans.
Ms B responded to confirm the final loan had been repaid and she provided us with an
extract of a spreadsheet showing loan repayments up to August 2022.
MoneyBoat didnt agree with the proposed outcome because it said the adjudicator included
payments to a loan which had been defaulted and the repayments towards this loan were
set periodically (not monthly). And in MoneyBoats view this loan ought to not be
recorded as part of Ms Bs monthly repayment assessment.
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Ms Bs complaint 
about loan 3 only. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller text and forms 
part of this final decision.
Both Ms B and MoneyBoat were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon 
as possible, but in any event, no later than 24 March 2023. 
MoneyBoat didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
Ms B responded to the provisional decision by providing copies of emails between her and 
MoneyBoat about the repayment plan she was on. The email from MoneyBoat dated 
24 August 2022 confirms Ms B made her final repayment and the loan would be closed. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Ms B could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Ms Bs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms B. These factors include:
Ms B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms B. The adjudicator didnt think this
applied to Ms B complaint.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Ms B could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms B was able to repay
her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Bs complaint.
Ms B appears to have accepted the outcome the adjudicator proposed for loan 1 and
MoneyBoat only queried the figures the adjudicator used for loans 2 and 3. So to me, it
seems there is no longer a dispute about loan 1 and so I say no more about it.
Loan 2
Although Ms B repaid loan 1 earlier than planned, it does seem she had some problems
repaying, as her December 2019 and January 2020 payments were made late.For this loan, Ms B declared her income was £2,270 per month. In the final response letter
MoneyBoat says this income wouldve been checked with one of the credit reference
agencies  it also says a copy payslip was taken  but it hasnt provided a copy of it.
Ms B declared outgoings of £1,350 covering her rent / mortgage, credit, food and other
costs. In addition, MoneyBoat explained:
On your loan applications we increased the monthly expenditure that you input, on
the basis that your credit report highlighted different expenditure than you had
disclosed, and/or to bring you in line with the average expenditure listed
on the Common Financial Statement.
Following these additional checks, MoneyBoat increased Ms Bs expenditure by an extra £4.
This left Ms B with £915 a month disposable income, which was enough to make her
commitments of around £194 per month.
Before this loan was approved, MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and its provided
a copy of the results that it received. Its worth saying here that MoneyBoat wasnt required
to carry out a credit search and even thought it did do one, there isnt anything that says it
has to be done to a particular standard or ask for specific information. But what MoneyBoat
couldnt do is carry out a credit search and not react to the results  if necessary.
Having reviewed the credit check results provided by MoneyBoat it knew she had debts of
just over £8,100 and was utilising 96% of her available budget / revolving credit.
MoneyBoat was also aware of one unsatisfied County Court Judgement for £4,241  this
was recorded in July 2017, and I think it was long enough before this loan not to have
caused MoneyBoat concern that Ms B was having immediate financial problems. Albeit it is
evidence that Ms B would need to repay this.
It also knew that Ms B had defaulted on a credit account in February 2019  so around a
year before this loan was approved, but Ms B had been able to satisfy the debt. In addition,
there were two other defaults recorded on Ms Bs credit file. One from December 2015 and
another from June 2016. Neither of which appeared to have been satisfied and so had
balances. But given how many years it had been since the defaults were recorded; I dont
think MoneyBoat needed to set aside some of Ms Bs money to cover the cost of servicing
them.
From the credit report I can see that in February 2020 Ms B opened two new accounts. A
mail order account which had a zero balance and a Finance House loan where she was
committed to paying £115 per month towards. The Finance House loan was opened on the
day that loan 1 was repaid, so its possible, as the adjudicator explained that this loan was
used to settle loan 1.
Ms B also had a couple of credit cards that she was servicing  both of these cards were
very close to their credit limits; these were costing her around £200 in total. In addition, she
also had a mobile phone contract of £17 per month and an existing home credit loan costing
£250 per month.
Ms B, as part of her application to MoneyBoat, declared her existing credit commitments
were £200 per month and MoneyBoat ought to have been aware that this figure was wrong
from the credit check results it had. At a minimum I think her costs per month for existing
commitments were at least £582 per month.
By substituting the above figure for the one Ms B declared as part of her application this
meant her total living costs came to around £1,737 (an increase on the £1,350 she
declared). This left £538 each month to repay the MoneyBoat loan of around £194. So even
if MoneyBoat had used what I consider to be the correct credit commitment figure it wouldve
still believed the loan was affordable.There also wasnt anything else in the credit search results that wouldve indicated Ms B was
having current difficulties. For example, there wasnt any indication that Ms B was regularly
opening new high cost credit accounts or was behind with any other payments.
I am therefore proposing to not uphold Ms Bs complaint about loan 2 as the loan appeared
affordable.
Loan 3
Ms Bs second loan was repaid on time and without any obvious difficulties. For this loan,
Ms Bs declared income had dropped to £1,811 per month  which is a decrease of around
£350. Again, MoneyBoat may have checked the validity of this income with a credit
reference agency, but it hasnt supplied the results of that check. But MoneyBoat had no
reason to believe this income figure was incorrect.
Ms Bs declared monthly outgoings came to £1,550 and as before MoneyBoat checked this
and felt that it needed to increase Ms Bs expenditure by a further £21 per month. After doing
this, it left Ms B with £239 per month in which to make her loan repayments of £191.
Just on its own checks, MoneyBoat was on notice that it was only leaving Ms B £48 after all
her costs in which to cover unexpected expenditure. This is quite a small amount
considering that Ms B was committed to repaying MoneyBoat for six months.
Credit check results have also been provided and Ive considered those in the same manner
as I did for loan 2. Ms Bs overall indebtedness had increased slightly from loan 2, it was
now up at around £8,600. But MoneyBoat was told she was using 106% of her available
credit  indicating that Ms B was over her agreed credit limits on one or more accounts.
The remainder of the credit search results show, in my view, a deterioration in Ms Bs
finances and knowing this MoneyBoat ought to not have approved the loan.
Ms B was above her agreed credit limits on her mail order account and her two credit cards.
All these accounts were in arrears  which were showing on the credit report, and it seems
that Ms B hadnt made her May, June or July 2020 payments. So, Ms B was now
demonstrating that she was struggling to repay the existing credit commitments which she
already had. This alone, is probably enough to uphold the complaint, but Ive explained
below, why the loan was also unaffordable for Ms B.
On top of this I can see outstanding Finance House loan of £115 per month, a home credit
loan of £166 plus, two telecommunications account costs £37 per month. These accounts
appeared to have been maintained but even then, these credit commitments came to £318.
And Ms B still needed to service her two credit cards and her mail order account which were
over their limits and therefore likely incurring further interest, fees and charges.
Looking at what Ms B declared, if I substitute the £318 monthly credit commitment figure into
the rest of her declared outgoings, she declared to MoneyBoat then shed have been left
with disposable monthly income of £193  after the loan repayment this wouldve left her
with around £1.70 per month to cover any other costs. Ive not included the repayments that
Ms B ought to have been making to her two credit cards and one mail order account. So
clearly, this loan was unaffordable for Ms B.
I am therefore intending to uphold Ms Bs complaint about this loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither Ms B nor MoneyBoat provided any new comments or evidence about the 
outcome that was intending to be reached, I see no reason to depart from the findings that 
were made in the provisional decision. 
I still think MoneyBoat made a reasonable decision to provide loans 1 and 2. However, the 
results of the credit check MoneyBoat carried out for loan 3, as well as the information Ms B 
provided as part of her application ought to have made it realise the loan wasnt affordable 
for her. 
Ive set out below what MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right for Ms B. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent loan 3 to Ms B at all, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Ms B loan 3. 
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms B towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 3, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. MoneyBoat should pay Ms B the total of A plus B. 
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Bs credit file in 
relation to loan 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for 
one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Bs 
complaint about loan 3 only.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Ms B as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman