DRN-3012812
The complaint
Ms S complains that Studio Retail Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms S applied for credit with Studio on in November 2017. The catalogue shopping account 
was opened with a credit limit of £100. 
Ms S says Studio should never have given her any credit as she wasnt working and was 
already in financial difficulties. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. She didnt think Studio had done anything 
wrong when offering Ms S credit.
 
Ms S disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Ms Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I dont think Studio 
acted unfairly and lent to Ms S irresponsibly.
 
Studio needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms S could afford 
to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much credit was being offered, the 
repayment amount, Ms Ss borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Studio has provided details of the checks it completed when opening Ms Ss account. Given 
the low credit limit it offered Ms S, I think these checks were proportionate. Studio says 
these checks show it was reasonable to lend to Ms S in the way that it did.
I can see from the checks Studio completed that the information it obtained about Ms S did 
show some negative information about her financial situation, which might suggest it she 
could find it difficult to afford to repay any credit. But there were also some indications that a 
small amount of credit would be affordable for her. I dont think there was enough negative 
information there to say Studio acted unfairly when it opened an account for Ms S with a 
very low credit limit. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the checks Studio completed were reasonable and proportionate in 
the circumstances and it didnt make an unfair lending decision here.
I appreciate that after the account was opened, Ms S went on to use most of the available 
credit limit straightaway and then struggled to make the repayments  only paying £16.31 in 
total towards the debt. But based on the checks Studio did (which as Ive said, were 
proportionate to the credit being offered), I dont think it could have known Ms S wouldnt be 
able to afford the repayments of £10 a month.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman