DRN-1767241
The complaint
Mr O complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) has
unfairly charged for damage when his car was returned on early termination of an 
agreement.
What happened
Mr O returned his car in January 2020 after he requested an early termination. Following
an inspection VWFS sent Mr O an invoice which it said was in respect of damage
to the car that was outside fair wear and tear standards.
Mr O complained and VWFS agreed to waive some of the charges as it didnt think the 
photographs showed that the damage could be fairly charged for. But it said that damage to 
the bumper, two of the wheels and a scratch to the rear of the car remained chargeable. 
These charges amounted to £163.20 excluding VAT.
Mr O didnt agree with these charges and brought the complaint to our service. He thought 
the damage charges were excessive and didnt reflect the loss of value to the car. He said 
that the car was returned 8 days early, even though he had paid for a full month. In addition, 
the car was below the contracted mileage which meant that VWFS would get more for the 
car so he didnt think he should pay for the damage.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our
investigator thought that the damage that was evident outside what would be considered 
normal wear and tear and VWFS had properly charged for it. The investigator thought that 
the fact that Mr O returned the car early and under the agreed mileage didnt mean that the 
charges were unfair. 
Mr O didnt agree and replied to say in summary that he didnt accept the charges were fair 
and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire agreement signed by Mr O states as follows;
You will be responsible for any damage to or deterioration of the Vehicle which is in excess 
of fair wear and tear commensurate with the age and mileage of the vehicle.
I dont think these are unfair or unusual terms and Mr O accepted them when he signed his
agreement.
I have looked at the photographs of the damage and I can see that this would be outside 
what would be considered fair wear and tear. 
I dont think Mr O disagrees with the damage but says that because the car was returned 
early and under the agreed mileage then it is unfair to charge him for this damage because 
the car is worth more.
I can see the point Mr O is making but I cant say that the charges are unfair in these 
circumstances. The charges are in line with the terms of the agreement signed by Mr
O and I cant say that the charges are excessive or unreasonable.
There is no provision in the agreement for a credit if the car is returned early or under the 
agreed mileage or for any damage charges to be waived in these circumstances and so I 
cant say that VWFS has acted unfairly. It has offered to reduce the charges further which I 
consider is fair and reasonable and I cant ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 
13 November 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman