DRN-1693291
Complaint
Miss K complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Miss K took out a credit card when she applied for it through the post in February 2002. At 
the same time, she took out a PPI policy.
The PPI would have cost 89p per £100 of the outstanding balance on her card. It would have 
paid out 10% of that balance if Miss K couldn't work because she had an accident, if she 
was too ill or if she lost her job, for up to 12 months at a time per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold this complaint. Miss K disagreed with this view and asked that 
an ombudsman look at the complaint again and make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ks case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Miss K has told us that the PPI wasn't explained to her and it must have been added without 
her consent. So, the first thing Ive thought about is whether Miss K had a fair choice about 
buying the policy. She took out the PPI when she applied through the post. Capital One has 
been able to provide me with a copy of Miss Ks credit card application form. On it Miss K 
has completed her personal details and theres a section on the form headed Additional 
Information. I can see Miss K has ticked the box yes next to the request to please enrol me 
in Capital Ones Payment Protection scheme. Theres an equally prominent box no. So, if 
Miss K didn't want the cover, she could have ticked this no box instead.  I can also see that 
Miss K didn't select other optional services in the same section. Miss K completed this form 
as a postal application, so I think she likely completed it in her own time and at her own 
pace, and she would more likely have read through the form she was signing. And I think the 
PPI likely would have appeared on her credit card statements, so if she didn't want the 
cover or didn't realise shed taken it out she could have questioned the PPI at any time with 
Capital One. I havent seen evidence that she did this. Taking all this into account, I think its 
more likely Miss K chose the PPI at the time knowing she could decline it if she didn't want it, 
even if its understandable if she cant remember now after such a long time.
Capital One didn't recommend the PPI to Miss K. That meant it didn't need to make sure it 
was suitable for her. But it still had to give her clear enough information, so she could decide 
for herself whether she wanted it and make an informed choice.Miss K says no information was given to her and nothing was explained about the PPI. Its 
possible not all the information was as clear as it should have been. But even if Miss K had 
been given clearer or better information, I still think she would have bought the PPI. I say this 
because I think she chose the cover and more information would have confirmed she was 
eligible for the policy. And she wasn't affected by any of the main limitations and exclusions 
that might have meant it would be harder to make a successful claim, such as an unusual 
employment situation or a pre-existing medical condition.
Miss K says she cant remember if she got sick pay from work or how much that would have 
been, and she had no savings she could fall back on if things went wrong. So, I think this 
policy would have been useful to her as it would have paid out for up to 12 months if things 
went wrong. 
The cost of the policy was based upon the amount Miss K spent on her credit card so theres 
nothing to make me think this policy was unaffordable.
Overall, I dont think Miss K lost out as a result of anything Capital One did wrong. I realise 
Miss K will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope the reasons Ive given, explain why I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman