DRN-1456123
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) referred his credit card account to a debt 
collection agency whilst he had an ongoing complaint on a separate issue. He would like 
Halifax to remit his debt and to instruct the debt collection agency to stop chasing him. 
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr L and Halifax, so there is no need for me to repeat it all again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr L made a complaint to Halifax regarding a PPI issue, which was referred to this service 
and has been dealt with under a separate complaint. Whilst that complaint was being 
investigated Halifax referred his credit card debt to their external debt collection agency with 
instructions to recover it.
Mr L is unhappy that Halifax took that action and feels it was morally wrong. He complains 
that he was harassed by the agency and Halifaxs behaviour has been unacceptable. Halifax 
said that it followed its own procedures for recovering the debt and had acted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. It did not accept that it had acted unfairly.
Mr L was unhappy with Halifaxs final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that Halifax 
had done anything wrong.
Mr L didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Halifax acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I have 
to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what 
Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that Halifax has done anything wrong. Ill 
explain why.
The starting point in this complaint is that Halifax did not agree to suspend recovery action or 
otherwise stop it. That said they followed their usual process for recovering debts and acted 
in accordance with the terms and conditions on the account which say;We may transfer any or all of our rights or duties under this agreement to another 
organisation (including organisations outside the European Economic Area). If we do 
this, we may let them have any information about you or an additional cardholder. We 
may also arrange for any other person to carry out our rights or duties under this 
agreement. Your rights under this agreement and your legal rights (including under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974) will not be affected.
 
So in considering the reasonableness or fairness of Halifaxs actions I need to take account 
of the fact that they were owed a fair amount of money which they wished to recover, and 
that Mr L had agreed to the passing of his account to a debt collector, as evidenced by the 
terms and conditions. 
If Halifax had made a subsequent separate agreement not to pass the account to a debt 
collector, but had then done so, that would be a different issue, but they didnt. And they also 
didnt make any agreement not to pass the account to a debt collection agency during the 
currency of his separate complaint. 
I appreciate Mr L feels Halifax ought not to have done this anyway, but I cant see that there 
is any good reason for them not to, since the money was owed and due. So I cant say 
Halifax have acted unfairly, since they have abided by the agreement.
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures, or indeed punish them. We only look at what 
happened in the circumstances of the individual complaint and check that Halifax follow its 
rules and procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers. And here they did.
As Mr Ls complaint is purely about Halifax passing the credit card debt to debt collectors I 
have not looked at anything else.
So, although Mr L will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Halifax has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman