DRN-2446565
The complaint
Mr P has complained that One Sure Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled his commercial 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
One Sure arranged a motor trade policy for Mr P. It asked him to send it some information to 
validate his policy. Mr P sent One Sure some of that information. But it said it still hadn't 
seen everything it needed. It wrote to Mr P and told him that it would cancel the policy in 
seven days if it hadnt received all the information. It then spoke with Mr P on the phone, it 
told him that he needed to authorise his previous insurer to speak to One Sure about his no 
claims discount (NCD). It also told him he would need to provide his driving licence summary 
from the DVLA. Mr P sent One Sure an email to say that he was struggling to get the licence 
summary from the DVLA website. Around nine days later One Sure cancelled Mr Ps policy. 
It refunded Mr P its fees and the only amount it kept was the insurers charge for the time on 
cover. 
Mr P didn't think One Sure had dealt with him fairly and brought his complaint to us. One of 
our investigators looked into it. She noted that One Sure took some actions on behalf of 
another company, which I'll call T. She contacted T. T confirmed that One Sure had 
cancelled the policy itself under its own process. So T wasn't responsible for the 
cancellation. But it said it could have done more to question the cancellation itself. So it said 
it would send Mr P a letter to reflect that the cancellation wasnt adverse and, wouldn't go 
against him.
Our investigator didn't think One Sure had dealt with Mr P fairly. So she said it should pay 
him £100 compensation. Neither One Sure nor Mr P were happy with our investigator's 
assessment of the complaint so it's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it. My award to put things right will be the same as 
our investigator recommended.
One Sure asked Mr P to provide some information in order to validate his policy. That 
information included proof of trading, proof of NCD, copies of his driving licence and either a 
DVLA summary of his licence or his national insurance number. Mr P sent One Sure his 
national insurance number. On 8 June 2020, One Sure sent Mr P an email asking him to 
provide his NCD proof. Later that day Mr P sent it copies of his driving licence and proof of 
trading.
The same day, 8 June 2020, One Sure sent Mr P a letter by recorded delivery. It said that, 
as he hadnt sent it everything it needed, it would cancel his policy in seven days, which was 
15 June 2020. It repeated that Mr P needed to send it his DVLA driving licence summary or 
copies of his driving licence and his national insurance number. Royal Mail didn't deliver that 
letter until 15 June.
In the meantime on 12 June 2020 - a Friday - having sent Mr P a text, One Sure phoned 
him. Ive listened to that call. The majority of it is about Mr P giving authorisation for 
One Sure to contact his previous broker to verify his NCD. Mr P said he would do that 
straightaway. One Sure then said it would look to check if anything else was outstanding. It 
told Mr P it hadn't been able to access his driving licence summary from the DVLAs website 
using his national insurance number. So it asked Mr P to do that and send it a screen-shot of 
the result, which he said he would. 
Mr P sent One Sure an email on the following Monday morning (15 June 2020) to say he 
was having problems accessing the DVLA licence summary and asked for advice. One Sure 
sent him an automated acknowledgement saying it would respond within seven days. The 
acknowledgment also gave its customer service phone number. Later that morning 
Royal Mail delivered One Sures recorded delivery letter of 8 June 2020. One Sure didn't 
reply to Mr Ps email of 15 June and on 24 June 2020 it cancelled his policy.
Ive thought very carefully about whether One Sure cancelled Mr Ps policy fairly. And when 
considering that I've noted there were things Mr P could have done to prevent the 
cancellation himself, such as ringing One Sure after he received the recorded delivery letter. 
But I also think One Sure could have taken other action, so I don't think it dealt with Mr P 
fairly. In particular, during the call of 12 June 2020 One Sure did tell Mr P that it couldn't 
access his licence summary from DVLAs website. So it asked Mr P to do that himself. But it 
didn't tell Mr P it had sent him a letter warning that his policy might be cancelled or check if 
hed received that. Nor did it tell him that he needed to provide the policy summary 
information by the next working day (Monday 15 June 2020) otherwise it would cancel his 
policy. I think if it had made that clear Mr P would most likely have taken additional steps to 
provide that information by the deadline. And that could have prevented the cancellation. 
It appears Mr P suffered the same problems that One Sure did in trying to access his licence 
summary from the DVLA website. He emailed One Sure to let it know about this on 
15 June 2020. One Sures automated message advised Mr P that he could ring it. But Mr P 
said there were long wait times on the phone. And given his previous conversation with 
One Sure hadn't indicated there was any urgency in providing the licence summary 
information I can see why he might not have thought this was needed urgently. 
Further, One Sure didn't actually cancel Mr Ps policy until 24 June 2020. And by that time it 
had Mr Ps email telling it that he was having the same problems it did in accessing the 
DVLA summary information. So it could have tried contacting Mr P again before cancelling 
his policy but it didn't do so and I don't think that was fair. That said, I accept that Mr P could 
also have provided the licence summary information in the meantime, which could have 
prevented the cancellation.
But as I don't think One Sure dealt with Mr P fairly, I've thought about what it should do to 
put things right. I've noted the replacement policy Mr P bought was slightly more expensive 
than the policy One Sure cancelled. And I've thought about that when considering 
compensation below.
T has already written to Mr P to confirm that it didn't consider the cancellation adverse and 
so shouldnt go against him. So that action should address any issues the cancellation could potentially have caused in the future.
Mr Ps also told us he suffered two days loss of income because he couldn't trade while 
sorting out the replacement insurance. But he hasn't provided us with any evidence, beyond 
his comments, of that loss of income. And without that evidence I don't think it would be fair 
to instruct One Sure to compensate him for that loss. 
Mr Ps also said that One Sure should refund him the full premium he paid to it. But 
One Sure has refunded all of its charges. So the only amount hes had to pay is the premium 
for his time on cover, before the policy was cancelled. And that sum is charged by the policy 
underwriter and not One Sure. Further, Mr P did have the benefit of the cover until the policy 
was cancelled. So I don't think it would be fair to instruct One Sure to reimburse Mr P for the 
premium he paid for the cover he received.
Mr P told us that, because the policy cancellation affected his insurance history, he couldn't 
afford fully comprehensive insurance and so his replacement policy was only third party 
cover. And, since our investigator issued her assessment of the complaint, hes told us that 
his van was stolen. It was recovered but returned with damage. And as he only had third 
party cover he couldn't claim on his new policy for repairs to the van. He thinks One Sure 
should cover those costs. I note this isn't a point One Sure has had a chance to respond to. 
But in any event I don't think it would be fair to ask One Sure to cover those costs. Before 
Mr P's van was stolen T had already written to him to say that the cancellation shouldnt go 
against him. So, if he didn't think his current third party insurance was suitable for his needs 
he could have cancelled it and replaced it with a comprehensive policy. But he didn't do that. 
So I don't think it was One Sures fault that Mr P wasn't covered for the damage to his van 
caused in the theft.
But, as Ive said above, I do think One Sure could have done more to help Mr P avoid some 
of the distress and inconvenience he suffered because of the policy cancellation. And in 
order to address that, and some of the additional costs hes incurred, I think its fair and 
reasonable that One Sure should pay him £100 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require One Sure Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr P £100 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman