DRN-3238674
The complaint
Mr K complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim under his landlord 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K has a landlord insurance policy which includes cover for loss of rent in certain 
situations. Hes a private landlord and rents out several rooms at the risk address. 
In 2019, there was a fire at an adjoining property which caused damage to several rooms of 
Mr Ks property. Mr K had a long-term tenant in one of the rooms who, due to the fire 
damage, moved out. The rooms on the top floor were empty at the time of the fire, but Mr K 
had a prospective tenant due to move in. Because of the damage, this tenancy didnt go 
ahead. So Mr K made a claim to Amtrust for his loss of rent and the damage caused to the 
property. 
Amtrust settled the claim for loss of rent of the long-term tenant and for property damage. 
But it declined the claim for lost rent for the top floor rooms. This was because, whilst there 
had been interest in these rooms, there was no tenancy agreement in place with the 
prospective tenant. So Amtrust wasnt satisfied that Mr K had evidenced his loss.
Mr K wasnt happy, so he raised a complaint. But Amtrust didnt change its position. It did 
acknowledge that there had been some delays, and it paid 8% interest on the claim 
settlement plus £100 compensation. 
Mr K remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He also complained that 
Amtrust hadnt paid for a damaged mattress and HiFi system.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she was satisfied Amtrust had declined the 
loss of rent claim for the top floor rooms in line with the policy terms. She also found that 
Mr K hadnt raised the claim for the mattress to Amtrust so she said she couldnt consider it. 
And she didnt think the HiFi system fell within the policys definition of landlords contents.
Mr K accepted what our investigator said in respect to the mattress and HiFi. But he didnt 
agree with the outcome regarding the loss of rent, so this part of the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks landlord insurance policy says:
We will pay for your loss of rent receivable if your buildings cannot be lived in or access to 
them is denied as a result of damage insured under Section 1 Buildings. The amount we will 
pay will be the:
a) amount by which the rent receivable during the indemnity period, as a direct result of 
damage, falls short of the rent receivable which would have been received during the 
indemnity period had no damage occurred.
As such, in order to satisfy the policy terms, Mr K is required to show that he wouldve 
received rent for the top floor rooms had it not been for the fire. If he can do so, he has a 
valid claim under the policy. Ive considered the evidence to determine whether Mr K has 
done that. 
Mr K says he had a prospective tenant that wanted to rent all rooms on the top floor. The 
tenant paid a deposit of £300 to secure the rooms, but this was paid in cash and Mr K has 
only been able to provide a handwritten receipt on blank paper. 
The prospective tenant hadnt signed a tenancy agreement yet, so theres nothing formal to 
say this tenancy would go ahead and the prospective tenant wouldve had the option to 
change their mind regardless of the fire. 
Amtrust asked Mr K to provide evidence to show the rooms were occupied before the fire. 
But it wasnt satisfied with the information Mr K provided, which appears to be an email from 
a tenant that occupied one of the top floor rooms in 2014.
Ive also asked Mr K to provide information to satisfy me that the rooms were occupied, 
which would support his claim that the rooms wouldve been rented had the damage not 
occurred. But the information Mr K has provided has been insufficient. 
Mr K has only been able to provide names of tenants from memory. And the dates provided 
appear to overlap; with one tenant being there between January 2017 to October 2019, and 
another from August 2017 to February 2018. Ive asked for clarification on whether these 
relate to separate rooms, as two tenants cant rent out the same room at the same time, but 
this information hasnt been forthcoming or clear. 
Furthermore, Mr K has been unable to provide any tenancy agreements which clearly show 
what room they relate to. And he hasnt provided any proof of rent payments. Mr K has 
provided a court document to show he pursued a tenant for unpaid rent in 2019, but again 
this doesnt show what room it relates to. And Im mindful that there are many rooms in this 
property over several floors.  
As a private landlord, Id expect Mr K to have clear and sufficient records of his tenants, 
including who was in what room and when. The information hes provided isnt clear and I 
dont think hes done enough to prove he has a valid claim under the policy.
I should be clear that its not my role to make a decision on Mr Ks claim. Whilst Ive tried to 
assist the situation by gathering more information from him, I only need to decide whether 
Amtrust acted correctly and fairly based on the information it had at the time. Im satisfied 
that Mr K hadnt evidenced his claim to Amtrust and nothing Ive seen since has altered this.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Amtrusts decision to decline the loss of 
rent claim for the top floor rooms was incorrect or unfair. So I dont uphold the complaint. 
Should Mr K have any new information that he believes sufficiently proves his claim, he can 
provide this to Amtrust for it to reconsider. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman