DRN-3369132
The complaint
Mr T complains that Oplo PL Ltd (Oplo) planned to change the date of his loan repayment 
for the month of December 2021 and that he had to contact it to avoid this happening.
What happened
Mr T has a loan account with Oplo, which he repays by monthly direct debit payments. The 
direct debit is set up to collect payment on the 28th of each month. In October 2021, Oplo 
sent an email to Mr T saying that it intended to collect his December payment early, on 17 
December. The email said that the reason for this was to help Mr T budget during the 
Christmas period, as many employers change the date they pay their staff in December. It 
said that payments would revert to Mr Ts original schedule from January 2022. The 
message said that, if Mr T preferred to keep his current payment date, he should email Oplo. 
An email address was provided for this.
Mr T sent an email back to Oplo the same day, saying that he didnt want his payment date 
to change. He raised a complaint at the same time, saying that the decision to change 
customers payment dates was ill-conceived. He said hed had to go out of his way to keep 
the payment date which he had agreed with Oplo when he took out the loan. 
Oplo didnt uphold the complaint because it said that Mr T was able to (and did) opt out of 
the date change. But Mr T remained unhappy about the situation and brought the complaint 
to this service. He said that, if he hadnt seen the email, Oplo would have taken the 
December payment early, without his consent, which would have caused him problems.
Our Investigator didnt think Oplo had acted unfairly. But Mr T didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ts loan account, which Mr T agreed to when 
he took out the loan. They include the following provision:
We will not, without your consent change the payment dates without giving you two months 
prior written notice. Any request from you to change the payment dates shall be at our 
absolute discretion.
Oplos email was sent on 27 October 2021. The December payment was due to be collected 
on 28 December 2021. The amended collection date proposed by Oplo was 17 December 
2021. So Oplo notified Mr T of the proposed change two months before his regular payment 
date but less than two months before the proposed new collection date. Its not clear to me 
whether the notice under the terms and conditions has to be given two months before the 
regular payment date or two months before the amended date being proposed. But, as Mr T 
didnt consent to the change and told Oplo this, Oplo didnt change the payment date. So I 
dont find that Oplo breached the terms and conditions.
Mr T is unhappy that he had to go out of his way to contact Oplo in order to keep his original 
payment date. He did have to take some positive action to avoid the change and I can 
understand why hes unhappy about that. But I dont think the inconvenience to Mr T was 
significant or disproportionate here. He had to send an email to Oplo, which he did straight 
away. Within four days, Oplo confirmed that his direct debit would not be changed. I dont 
think thats unreasonable. I understand that Mr T has since spent a considerable amount of 
time on this matter. But that was time spent pursuing the complaint, not opting out of the 
payment date change.
Mr T says that Oplos decision to change the December payment date was ill-conceived as it 
couldnt have known whether customers would have been paid by the date it chose. He says 
he wouldnt have been paid by then and, if he hadnt seen Oplos email, the payment being 
taken early would have put him in financial difficulty. He says that lots of customers could 
have been negatively impacted if theyd missed the email. I understand Mr Ts concern. But 
it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold a complaint on the basis of what might have happened, 
either to Mr T himself or to other customers. Im looking at what happened in Mr Ts case 
specifically and deciding whether Oplo acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
As I said above, I dont think Oplo breached the terms and conditions. It didnt change the 
payment date because Mr T didnt agree. The December payment was collected under the 
usual direct debit arrangement, so I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr T suffered any 
loss here. I realise hes unhappy that he had to engage with Oplo, but I dont think the level 
of engagement required was unreasonable. Overall, I dont find that Oplo acted unfairly.
I know Mr T feels strongly that Oplos approach was ill-judged. But its not the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to tell Oplo how to manage customers accounts or what 
procedures to have in place. What we look at is whether it acted fairly and reasonably in all 
the circumstances of the case. For the reasons above, I think it did here. So, Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr T, but Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman