DRN-4256610
The complaint
Mr D complains that the loan he had from Oplo PL Ltd was unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr D had one loan from Oplo in July 2022 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 12 Jul 2022 £15,000 60m £425.93 1 July 2027 Sold
Mr D says Oplo didnt carry out appropriate checks and the lending caused him to be in 
further financial difficulty. He says Oplo didnt even request bank statements and he is now 
behind with priority bills.
Oplo says it checked Mr Ds credit file and conducted an income and expenditure 
assessment using Mr Ds declared income, which it had verified. It says he had sufficient 
disposable income and there was nothing to suggest the loan was unsustainable, especially 
as some of the money was being used to repay existing credit commitments. Oplo adds that 
all repayments were initially made on time, and it had not been informed that Mr D was in 
financial difficulties until his complaint. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She was not satisfied that 
Oplo had carried out proportionate checks and said that, had it done so, it would have found 
that Mr D already had a negative monthly disposable income so further lending was 
unaffordable. Our investigator recommended that interest should be refunded on the loan 
and any negative information should be removed from Mr Ds credit file once the outstanding 
balance had been repaid.
Mr D responded to say that Oplo had now applied a default to his account and that it was 
unfair for this to stay on there until the capital had been repaid.
Oplo responded to say, in summary, that:
It did not agree that Mr D had an unusual level of credit commitments and three new 
accounts in six months did not suggest he was in a cycle of borrowing;
Its calculations showed a monthly disposable income of £935, and Mr D had no 
adverse information on his credit file;
It was unsure why using Office for National Statistics (ONS) data to estimate 
household expenditure was inappropriate;
The calculated level of disposable income was above the level that this service 
considered acceptable in another case;
Mr Ds income was verified via a third-party verification check and, even taking the 
slightly lower figure found in his bank statements, the loan remained affordable;
It was entitled to rely on the information provided by Mr D, including his testimony 
during the calls prior to lending;
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ds case, I have considered the following:
Did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ds loan 
application to satisfy itself that hed be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Oplo make a fair lending decision?
Did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Mr D applied for the loan, Oplo verified his declared income, checked his credit file 
and asked about the purpose of the loan. These checks showed:
Mr D said the purpose of the loan was partly debt consolidation and partly to invest in 
a work incentive scheme;
oOplo agreed to directly consolidate one loan with a balance of £2,835 and 
repayments of £123;
oMr D agreed to also pay off two further loans with a combined balance of 
£5,097 and repayments of £222;
oMr D said hed use further funds to reduce the balances on his credit cards;
His declared income of £4,407 monthly was verified;
Mortgage payments of £1,334 monthly;
11 other active credit accounts:
oSeven loans with a total balance of £58,753 and combined payments of 
£1,340  this included a £7,500 loan that was taken out just a month earlier;
oThree credit cards with a balance of £7,423 and an £8,440 combined limit;
oAn overdraft of £1,895 with a limit of £2,000;
Mr Ds credit record showed no arrears, defaults or County Court Judgements;
The ONS estimate for other monthly expenditure was £659.
However, Im not satisfied that these checks went far enough in the circumstances. I say that 
because:
The loan was for a term of 60 months and Oplo needed to be satisfied the 
repayments were sustainable for that period;Mr D was already committed to spending almost 37% of his declared income on 
credit repayments and this increased following the new loan:
oTo almost 44% only taking into account the loan that was directly 
consolidated;
oTo over 38% assuming Mr D used some of the money to repay the additional 
two loans;
Given the large proportion of his declared income that was committed to credit 
repayments each month (up to 74% including his mortgage), I consider Oplo needed 
to fully understand his other regular expenditure, rather than using ONS data.
Although Ive calculated that Mr D had almost £800 of disposable income before the lending, 
using Oplos ONS expenditure estimate, this reduced to less than £500 with the new loan 
(taking into account the direct loan consolidation only). So, Ive had a look at Mr Ds bank 
statements from the time as a reasonable proxy for what proportionate checks may have 
shown. I can see that:
Mr Ds income was actually £3,877 per month in the lead up to the loan;
Mr D took out an additional loan at the end of April 2022 which was not reflected in 
his credit file  the repayments on that were £87 per month;
Mobile phone and television costs were around £460 per month;
Mr D was making regular £350 payments to the council;
Utilities, including water, cost Mr D about £300 per month;
Insurances totalled about £90;
There were other regular payments of over £100, excluding food and travel;
As Mr Ds income was £500 less than hed declared, his credit costs were £87 higher than 
calculated, and his other regular expenditure was significantly more than the £659 estimate, 
it is clear that Mr D could not afford the new lending, even with the debt consolidation. 
Indeed, Mr D has also forwarded later credit files that show he did not use any of the loan 
money to repay the two further loans and, instead, he took out another loan with the same 
company just three months after repaying the directly consolidated loan.
In summary, I find that, including his mortgage, Mr D needed to pay over 86% of his income 
towards his borrowing  a situation that was clearly not sustainable for the 60-month term of 
the loan.
Finally, I note that Mr D has said it is unfair that the default will stay on his account until the 
balance of the loan has been repaid as he feels it was unfairly applied. He has now raised a 
separate complaint about that so I will not address that here.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that proportionate checks would have shown Mr D was already 
struggling financially. So, I find it was irresponsible to have approved the loan, given what 
Oplo should have known about Mr Ds financial circumstances, although I cant see Oplo 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Oplo PL Ltd should buy the loan back if it is able 
to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back, then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
Add up the total amount of money Mr D received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr D made should be deducted from this amount.
oIf this results in Mr D having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement);*
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Oplo should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr D;
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to the loan 
once any outstanding balance has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to deduct tax from this interest. Oplo should give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman