DRN-4374208
The complaint
Y, a limited company, complains about Funding Circle Ltds actions in connection with a
commercial lending arrangement it entered into. This complaint is brought by Mrs I, owner
and sole director of Y.
What happened
Funding Circle provides a peer-to-peer lending platform and administers loans on behalf of
both corporate and individual investors, who are the lenders in these arrangements.
Y contacted Funding Circle in 2017 seeking to raise funds of £120,000 to open a second
retail outlet. Funding Circle agreed and advanced Y the sum of £127,200 (inclusive of a
set-up fee of £7,200), to be repaid over five years at £2,734.03 a month. One of the
borrowing conditions was that Mrs I stand as guarantor, meaning if Y didnt keep up the
payments, Mrs I could be pursued for recovery.
Y accepted the loan terms and Funding Circle issued the funds of £120,000 in
October 2017.
Due to payments not being made by Y Funding Circle defaulted the loan in May 2019 and 
was, prior to transferring the loan to a company that I will call A, seeking recovery of the 
sum recorded in its books as owing and due under that loan from Y.
Mrs I complained to Funding Circle that it had acted irresponsibly in approving the loan and it
didnt conduct appropriate checks on Ys ability to repay it. Mrs I provided Funding Circle
with various documentation which she considered shouldve prompted it to reach a different
outcome in terms of its lending decision.
Funding Circle responded to Mrs I. It didnt agree with what Mrs I had said. It said that in
considering Ys application it had undertaken affordability checks. These included an
assessment of the 2017 business accounts, bank account statements, a credit check and a
turnover/net profit projection for 2018. It said none of this indicated signs of a business under
stress, and that the loan payments were thus deemed affordable.
Mrs I remained unhappy with the position and on behalf of Y referred matters to us.
Ys complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He looked at the steps Funding
Circle had taken in considering the loan application. In doing so, he took into account
guidance set out by the Lending Standards Board (LSB) in respect of lending to
business customers. While Funding Circle wasnt a subscriber to the LSB, the investigator
considered that guidance representative of good industry practice.
Based on the evidence Funding Circle provided, our investigator was satisfied it had taken
appropriate steps to assess Ys ability to repay the loan in a sustainable manner without
incurring financial difficulty. And he noted the financial information and credit checks
Funding Circle had looked at were in line with the factors suggested by the LSB guidance.
He was also satisfied that Funding Circles decision to lend was a fair one and it had done
nothing wrong in its management and administration of the loan before or after it was
defaulted.
Mrs I didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for a review. In doing so, she 
reiterated and expanded on her previous submissions and to say that the investigators 
conclusion/assumption that the proposed second retail unit would be making a similar net 
profit to the existing retail unit immediately was both unfounded and unsound.
In April 2023 I issued a provisional decision on this case. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties, especially Mrs I, that Ive read and
considered everything on file.
I accept that Mrs I might like me to, but Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point
raised to fairly reach my decision. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I
havent considered it. Its because Ive focused on what I think are the key issues. And my
approach in this respect is in line with the rules we operate under.
Our investigator set out in some detail the information Funding Circle took into account when
reaching the decision to approve Ys loan application. I dont consider it necessary for me to
repeat that information here; theres no real dispute over what Funding Circle took into
account, or what the LSB guidance suggests are relevant factors affecting a commercial
lending decision. For the avoidance of any doubt, Im satisfied that in obtaining information
relating to Ys financial position and about how Y had handled previous and existing credit
commitments, Funding Circle got appropriate information on which to base its lending
decision.
The key question is whether there was anything in that information that suggested
Funding Circle ought to have done more investigation into Ys ability to sustain the loan
payments. Mrs I clearly feels that this is the case. Shes provided examples of areas where
she feels the financial documents indicate further enquiry would have been appropriate.
Funding Circle, on the other hand, says that there were no obvious signs of financial stress
that would have prompted it to ask for more evidence or to make further enquiries.
I accept there were some indications that Y might have found it difficult to meet the loan
payments. But I must also bear in mind that the purpose of the commercial borrowing was to
expand the business by opening a second retail outlet operating in exactly the same field as
Ys existing retail outlet.
I must also bear in mind that Y had, in 2017, been trading for seven years and had made a
net profit in 2014 (£23k), 2015 (£43k), 2016 (£34k) and 2017 (£19k) and was projected to do
so in 2018 (£44k) and a reasonable explanation had been given (by Mrs I) for the fall in net
profits in 2017.Its not unusual for an enterprise to borrow money in order to invest and grow its business. A
key aspect of business lending involves basing lending decisions not solely on the past
position, but on the growth proposition. It would be unreasonable if I were to say that firms
should only approve lending where the underlying commercial venture is guaranteed to
succeed. There is inevitably an element of risk involved.
Of course, a responsible lender (or lending platform) should be considering that risk. They
can do this by assessing a business plan, or making other enquiries about the purpose of
the borrowing and how the investment might translate to increased turnover or sales.
Funding Circle established that Mrs I intended to expand her business by opening a second
retail outlet operating in exactly same field as its existing retail outlet. The proposition doesnt
appear to have been one that was entirely without merit. And in being asked to consider a
borrowing proposal, a lender or lending platform isnt required to advise on the wisdom of the
applicants proposed course of action. It doesnt automatically adopt the role of advisor
simply by virtue of being asked to lend money or other support for a business venture.
I accept what Mrs I says about the size of the loan when measured against Ys balance
sheet position in 2017 (and 2016) and the cost of the loan repayments when measured
against Ys net profit for 2017 (and 2016). I also accept what Mrs I says about a second
retail outlet (on its own) not making a net profit immediately, something that the investigator
suggested would be the case.
But in my view Funding Circle was entitled to rely on Mrs Is projected net profit for Y of
£43,700 for 2018 and it wasnt necessary for it to enquire about how this sum was split
between the two retail outlets (current and proposed), or whether the existing retail outlet
was projected to make a net profit of more than £43,700 with the proposed retail outlet
projected to make a loss equal to the projected net profit of the existing retail outlet less
£43,700.
It also needs to be remembered that as well as having regard to the accounts provided by
Mrs I in respect of Y for 2017 (and by default 2016) when deciding whether to lend,
Funding Circle also had regard to Ys bank account balance and turnover and a credit risk
report provided by one of the major credit reference agencies, none of which caused
Funding Circle concern. And for the record Ive seen nothing in any of these documents that
would or should have caused Funding Circle concern or anything that meant it should have
made further enquiries.
Taking all of this into account, while I understand Mrs Is strength of feeling Im satisfied that
Funding Circle undertook reasonable and proportionate checks before it agreed to lend to Y.
Its of course regrettable that things didnt work out as Mrs I intended. But I dont think thats
attributable to Funding Circles actions in approving the loan.
I would add that like the investigator Im satisfied that Funding Circle has done nothing
wrong in its management and administration of Ys loan (to the date of this decision) and this
includes the recovery action it has taken against Y since the loan was defaulted.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would like to make it clear that I make no finding
in this decision (nor am I able to) on the fairness, or otherwise, of Funding Circles recovery
action taken against Mrs I personally after the loan was defaulted.
Funding Circle didnt respond to my provisional decision.Mrs I responded to my provisional decision to say that she, on behalf of Y, didnt agree with 
it. In summary she said:
our investigation failed to take into account Funding Circles actions against Y after 
May 2019, in particular its decision to transfer the loan to A
Funding Circles actions since May 2019 has been, amongst other things, unfair, 
unreasonable, unprofessional, harassing, and in breach of one or more legal and 
regulatory obligations
In response to my provisional decision Mrs I provided a number of documents including, but 
not restricted to:
correspondence between her and Funding Circle between May 2019 and April 2021
correspondence between her and our service between May 2021 and August 2023
correspondence from A (and its agents) dated June 2021 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to make it clear, for a second time, that Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every point raised by Mrs I (on behalf of Y) to fairly reach my decision. And if I dont 
comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive focused on 
what I think are the key issues. And my approach in this respect is in line with the rules we 
operate under.
I accept that Mrs I doesnt agree with my finding that Funding Circle undertook reasonable 
and proportionate checks before it agreed to lend to Y or with my finding that Funding Circle 
did nothing wrong in granting the loan to Y that it did on the terms that it did. But Mrs I has 
provided nothing materially new in her response to my provisional decision on this point. 
So, although I dont underestimate Mrs Is strength of feeling, I see no good reason to depart 
from my provisional findings on this point and I now confirm them as final.
Mrs I submits that our services investigation failed to take into account Funding Circles 
actions against Y after May 2019, in particular its decision to transfer the loan, along with 
any outstanding balance owed by Y under it, to A.
First, I think its worth pointing out that Funding Circle took the decision to transfer the loan to 
A in June 2021, after Mrs I (on behalf of Y) complained to our service. This means that this 
particular point didnt form part of Ys original complaint.
Secondly, I would also point out that in my provisional decision I said that: 
I would add that like the investigator Im satisfied that Funding Circle has done nothing
wrong in its management and administration of Ys loan (to the date of this decision) and this
includes the recovery action it has taken against Y since the loan was defaulted.
So I dont agree our service failed to take into account Funding Circles actions against Y 
after May 2019. However, in light of Mrs Is response to my provisional decision, I would 
make the following comments and observations:most of the correspondence Mrs I has submitted, as part of her response to my 
provisional decision, is correspondence between Funding Circle and her in her 
capacity as guarantor and not in her capacity as owner and sole director of Y
as pointed out in my provisional decision, and as I understand Mrs I accepts, I make 
no finding in this decision (nor am I able to) on the fairness, or otherwise, of Funding 
Circles recovery action taken against her personally after the loan was defaulted
Having regards to everything that has been said and submitted, including Mrs Is 
response to my provisional decision and the loan terms and condition Y agreed to, I 
remain of the view that Funding Circle has done nothing wrong in its management 
and administration of Ys loan and this includes, but isnt restricted to:
odefaulting the loan when it did
oseeking from Y, in the manner that it did and when it did, the sum it says was 
due and owing to it following the loan being defaulted, remembering I make 
no finding (nor am I able to)  on the fairness, or otherwise, of Funding Circles 
recovery action taken against Mrs I personally in her capacity as guarantor
otransferring the loan to A
I appreciate Mrs I, as owner and sole director of Y, will be disappointed by my decision but 
for the reasons given Im satisfied that Funding Circle undertook reasonable and 
proportionate checks before it agreed to lend to Y, it did nothing wrong in lending to Y when 
it did and on the terms that it did and it did nothing wrong in its management and 
administration of Ys loan following its decision to default it.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman