DRN-3457872
The complaint
Miss G and Mr S complain about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE has settled a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2019, Miss G and Mr S booked a trip abroad to a country Ill call A. They were due to 
travel between 28 February and 27 March 2020. They took out an annual travel insurance 
policy through a broker, which was underwritten by Great Lakes. They flew abroad as 
planned.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) 
advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad.  On 19 March 2020, Miss G and 
Mr S were informed that their return flights had been cancelled by the airline. And on 23 
March 2020, the FCDO advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK.
Miss G called Great Lakes to discuss the situation. Great Lakes call handler told Miss G to 
submit a claim for any additional expenses she and Mr S incurred after theyd returned 
home.
Ultimately, Miss G and Mr S were able to book return business class flights and flew back to 
the UK on 26 March 2020. They made a curtailment claim for the significant additional costs 
theyd incurred.
Great Lakes said that the circumstances of the claim werent covered by the curtailment 
section of the policy. It also said that strictly, the circumstances werent covered by the 
catastrophe section of the policy either. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it settled Miss G 
and Mr S claim in line with the catastrophe cover, up to the policy limit of £750 per person.
Miss G and Mr S were unhappy with Great Lakes settlement and they asked us to look into 
their complaint. They said that when theyd called Great Lakes, theyd been told that their 
claim would be paid.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think it had been 
unfair for Great Lakes to conclude that the claim wasnt covered by the curtailment section of 
the policy. And he thought Great Lakes had acted fairly and reasonably when it acted 
outside of the policy terms and settled the claim in line with the applicable catastrophe cover 
limit. He wasnt persuaded that Great Lakes call handler had indicated to Miss G that any 
claim would be paid.
Miss G and Mr S disagreed. Miss G said her recollection was that the call handler had told 
her that she should have a claim and advised her and Mr S to get back to the UK. Thats 
why theyd flown home, rather than remaining in the airport hotel.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss G and Mr S, I think Great Lakes has 
settled their claim fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Miss G and Mr S policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Great Lakes 
handled their claim fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Miss G and Mr S found themselves was completely 
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the insurance was 
purchased in February 2020, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 
couldnt have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers. However, no insurance 
policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish 
to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, Great Lakes obligations 
under its contract with Miss G and Mr S are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions 
which are set out in the policy.
Should Great Lakes have paid the claim under the curtailment section of the policy?
Miss G and Mr S travelled home earlier than theyd planned because of the pandemic. So I 
think it was appropriate for Great Lakes to consider the claim under the Cutting Short Your 
Trip section of the policy. This says that Great Lakes will cover a policyholders pre-paid, 
unused expenses if they have to curtail their trip for one of the following reasons:
a) an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling companion or 
any person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip.
b) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional, or 
advisory capacity).
c) complications of pregnancy of you or a travelling companion.
d)  you being unable to continue your trip, as detailed in your travel itinerary, due to loss 
or theft of your passport, or that of a travelling companion.
e) your home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable, due 
to fire, lightning, explosion, earthquake, subsidence, storm, flood, falling trees, riot or 
civil unrest, malicious damage, burst pipes, impact by aircraft, the Police requesting 
your presence following a burglary or attempted burglary.
Theres no dispute that Miss G and Mr S trip wasnt cut short for any of the above reasons. 
This means their claim isnt covered under the Cutting Short Your Trip section of their 
policy.
Ive noted that the policy doesnt cover policyholders if they travel against FCDO advice. 
There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for 
changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think it 
was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions.
However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Great Lakes to do so 
here. I say that because the curtailment section of Miss G and Mrs S policy includes a specific list of things Great Lakes doesnt cover. This list includes the following term:
prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment of the 
booked trip due to Government action.
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Miss G and Mr S claim. But 
Miss G and Mr S airline cancelled their original flight, due to operational reasons which may 
have been linked to government restrictions in a country they were due to transit through. On 
19 March 2020, As government announced domestic restrictions. And on 23 March 2020, 
the FCDO advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK. I think then that a 
combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, the airlines cancellation of their flight, 
FCDO advice and government restrictions both in A and the UK  are all likely to have 
impacted to some degree on Miss G and Mr S decision to cut short their trip. So not only are 
the reasons for the curtailment of Miss G and Mr S holiday not covered as listed, insured 
events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above would apply to the 
circumstances of their claim anyway.
Should Great Lakes settle the full claim under the catastrophe section of the policy?
Great Lakes agreed to settle Miss G and Mr S claim under the catastrophe section of the 
policy up to the policy limit of £750 per person. So Ive considered whether this was a fair 
response from Great Lakes.
The policy says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown on the table of benefits for the cost you pay, or 
agree to pay overseas, for similar travel expenses and accommodation to allow you to 
continue with your holiday or journey. We will only do this if you cannot reach or cannot live 
in your booked accommodation because of a fire, flood, earthquake, storm, lightning, 
explosion, hurricane or a major outbreak of an infectious disease.
In this case, Miss G and Mr S didnt incur additional costs to continue with their holiday or 
journey. They incurred costs because they had to cut short their trip. So on a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms, their claim isnt covered by this section either. However, 
Great Lakes decided to settle the claim under this section of the policy outside of the 
contract terms. And in my view, this was a fair and reasonable response from Great Lakes. 
As its settled the claim in line with the policy limit applicable to this section, I dont find that it 
needs to pay Miss G and Mr S anything more.
The phone call
Like our investigator, Ive listened carefully to the call between Miss G and Great Lakes call 
handler. I appreciate Miss G feels strongly that the call handler told her that she should have 
a claim and should get back to the UK. However, while the call handler did tell Miss G that 
he thought Great Lakes would take a common sense approach to claims, he specifically 
stated on more than one occasion that Miss G would need to submit a claim upon her return 
to the UK for assessment. I think he made it clear that the claims team would need to deal 
with any claim Miss G and Mr S put in upon their return. He did not say that claims would be 
paid.
And the call handler specifically mentioned that he could not give Miss G any advice. He 
didnt tell Miss G to return to the UK. So I dont think the call handler misled Miss G in any 
way. Even if I had thought the call handler had given any wrong information though, I still 
wouldnt have directed Great Lakes to pay the claim on this basis. Thats because while Miss 
G says that but for the call, she and Mr S wouldve stayed abroad in an airport hotel, given the evolving situation; the imposition of restrictions abroad and in the UK, and the FCDO 
advice, I still think theyd likely have chosen to return to the UK. And even if theyd chosen to 
stay in A until restrictions were lifted, I dont think any section of the policy wouldve covered 
the additional hotel costs they wouldve inevitably incurred during that period before borders 
reopened. 
In summary then, I find that Great Lakes settled this claim fairly. So Im not telling it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman