DRN-3394285
The complaint
D complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) avoided its commercial 
premises buildings insurance policy and refused to pay its claim.
Ms S brought the complaint on behalf of her company, D.
What happened
D bought a tenanted commercial property. At the end of the tenancy in July 2020, D bought 
commercial buildings insurance with RSA via a broker. A new tenant took over the property 
in August 2020 but, because of a national lockdown, said he wouldnt be trading to begin 
with and would instead carry out a major refurbishment. During that time, the tenant paid D 
his rent in cash.
In February 2021, shortly after D and the new tenant signed the lease agreement, police 
raided the property and found it was being used as a cannabis farm. The premises had 
suffered significant damage, including dangerous electrical alterations. So, D claimed under 
the policy for the malicious damage caused to the property.
RSA looked into the claim but it thought D had misrepresented the facts when it bought the 
policy. RSA said D presented the risk as an operating commercial business, but its 
investigation revealed it hadnt traded since policy inception. RSA said if it had been aware 
of the true circumstances  that the tenant was carrying out renovation and wouldnt be 
trading - it wouldnt have offered cover. RSA considered the misrepresentation careless, so it 
avoided the policy from the date of inception, refused to pay the claim and returned the 
premium to D.
D complained that RSA hadnt taken into consideration that the national lockdown had 
prevented smaller businesses from operating, so it didnt think RSA treated it fairly by 
avoiding the policy. However, RSA said the business couldve opened during the period 
when the policy was taken out and trading wasnt restricted.
D brought its complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. He didnt think D had made a fair presentation of the risk, so it was reasonable for 
RSA to avoid the policy and return Ds premium.
D didnt agree. It said the premises was to be used as a trading commercial property, as 
declared, so thered be no other way of describing it when it purchased the policy. D didnt 
think RSA had considered the national restrictions giving rise to the opportunity taken to 
renovate.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome D would want, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015 (The Act). This requires commercial 
policyholders to volunteer information about the risk when taking out or renewing a policy  
that is, they have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. A fair 
presentation means telling the insurer everything they know or ought to know about the risk 
address that might influence the insurers decision to offer cover, and to provide enough 
information so the insurer can make enquires about potentially material facts.
Here, Ive thought about whether RSA fairly concluded that D hadnt given a fair presentation 
of everything it ought to have known about the property (the risk) it wanted to insure.
RSA said that when responding to the statement of fact, D said it wanted to insure a 
tenanted commercial property. Its here that RSA said D shouldve told it that the property 
would be undergoing renovation, so it wouldnt be trading. Ive looked at the statement of 
fact and the policy schedule which confirm that D bought the policy for a tenanted 
commercial property. 
Looking at its witness statement, D confirmed it knew the tenant planned to renovate and 
wouldnt be trading, so it had a duty under The Act to tell RSA. D owned other commercial 
premises and I think its reasonable to conclude that it ought to have known about its duty 
under The Act. Therefore, I think RSAs decision that D didnt give a fair presentation of the 
risk was fair.
Moving on, Ive looked at whether it wouldve made a difference if D had given a fair 
presentation. RSA said if it had known the true circumstances, it wouldnt have offered 
cover. Ive looked at the underwriting criteria and Im satisfied that RSA wouldve declined to 
offer a new policy if the property wouldnt be occupied for trading. 
If an insurer wouldve done something different had it been made aware of the facts, The Act 
describes this as a qualifying breach. Given that RSA wouldnt have offered cover if D had 
made a fair presentation of the risk, Im satisfied D's misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
RSA classed the breach as careless. Treating the breach as careless, rather than deliberate 
or reckless, provides the most favourable outcome for D. So I think it was fair for RSA to 
treat Ds qualifying misrepresentation as careless.
The Act sets out what should happen in the event of a careless misrepresentation. The 
insurer is entitled to avoid the policy (treat it as if it never existed) and return the premium. I 
see that RSA avoided the policy, refused to pay Ds claim, and returned the premium. As this 
is in line with The Act, Im satisfied its actions were fair and reasonable. 
Overall, the evidence shows that D didnt make a fair presentation of the risk when it bought 
the policy. If it had, RSA wouldnt have offered cover. Therefore, I think it was fair to avoid 
the policy, refuse to pay the claim and return Ds premium in line with The Act. I wont be 
asking RSA to do anything more in respect of Ds complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman