DRN-2400932
The complaint
Mr H is a sole trader. He is unhappy that he is required to apply online and provide an email 
address in order to apply for a Bounce Back Loan with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mr H was looking to apply for a Bounce Back Loan with Santander. But after finding that the 
only way to apply was online and that an email address had to be provided, he raised a 
complaint. 
Mr H says these requirements are discriminatory and an infringement of his rights under 
data protection and human rights legislation. So he wants Santander to facilitate an 
application in some other way.
Santander says that the online application is a requirement of the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme, which all applicants have to use. It has offered to support Mr H with an 
application  for example by attending him in a local branch. But ultimately it says an email 
address will always be required. 
Our investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. She thought that the online 
application was part and parcel of the Schemes design. And she noted that Mr H had an 
email address and that hed previously provided this to Santander. So she didnt think the 
bank needed to do anything differently.
As Mr H didnt accept our investigators view, his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Santander isnt responsible for the Bounce Back Loan Schemes design. It was launched by 
the government to help small and medium-sized businesses deal with the impact of the 
coronavirus pandemic. 
It is a requirement of the Scheme that an application be completed online and that an email 
address be provided. This is evidently with the aim of helping as many businesses as quickly 
as possible. Demand for borrowing under the Scheme has been unprecedented, while 
lenders themselves are also dealing with the difficulties posed by the pandemic. So I dont 
think Santander acted unreasonably in requiring Mr H to provide an email address as part of 
any application for a loan under the Scheme.
Mr H has an email address, and he has previously provided it to Santander. So I dont think 
he is being discriminated against; rather it is a matter of Mr Hs choice not to provide the 
information thats been requested. I appreciate that Mr H has concerns over the use of his 
personal data, but taking all of the above account I dont think theyre enough for me to 
require Santander to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman