DRN-1800158
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays bank plc will not refund some disputed transactions.
What happened
Mr C complained to Barclays on 29th November 2019 about three transactions on his 
account which were made on the previous two days.  He said he hadnt made these 
payments and had discovered them shortly before he had rushed to the branch to report 
them.
Having reported the matter to the branch, he spoke to the fraud team over the telephone.  
He was told the investigation would take approximately ten working days and Barclays would 
write to him with an outcome.  Mr C re-iterated how concerned he was.  He said he had lost 
his life savings.  He had not received his card for the account and was concerned no-one 
had informed him of the money leaving his account.
When Barclays wrote to him with its final response, it said it would be holding him liable for 
the funds for the following reasons:
-The payment of £39,000 had been blocked pending a confirmation from Mr C.  
Barclays contacted Mr C via the registered mobile number it held for him  and a text 
confirming the transaction was genuine was sent back;
-Mr C had said he had not received his card or PIN through the post  yet Apple Pay 
had been set up on 13th November which indicated he had received them (the 
account had been opened on 24th October 2019);
-The cookies used to make the disputed transactions matched the cookies used by Mr 
C to log onto his online banking.
But Mr C was not happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think she could ask Barclays to do anymore.  
So Mr C made further submissions including the following:
-He did not regularly have wifi so had used his friends wifi to log onto online banking 
on 29th November2019;
-He did not have a working SIM on his phone at the time and had replaced it some 
weeks after the disputed transactions;
-He had not responded to the text message from Barclays and had not set up Apple 
Pay on his account  and had not authorised anyone else to do so;
-He had not received the card and PIN for the account;
-Barclays had refunded smaller amounts which had been made using Apple Pay  so 
it just needed to check who had been using his card and it would find the fraudster;
Following his submissions, our investigator asked for further evidence in support.  This was 
in the form of documents showing he had issues with his phone and SIM  and more 
precisely, the dates of these issues.
Mr C was not able to provide the relevant documents  so the matter was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for Barclays to hold Mr C liable for these transactions, it not only needs to show that 
the payments were authenticated  but that Mr C consented to the payments too.  If it cannot 
satisfy both stages, the payments must be returned to him.
From the evidence provided by Barclays, I am satisfied the transactions were authenticated 
 in that the genuine card was used, inserted into the reader and the correct PIN entered.  
So, what I then need to decide is whether Mr C consented to these payments being made 
from his account.
Based on what I have seen and heard, I think he did consent and so I wont be asking 
Barclays to refund them to him.
I say this for the following reasons:
-Mr C had opened the account over a month before the disputed transactions  yet he 
says he had not received his card and PIN and not chased Barclays for them. I find 
that explanation implausible.  I have seen evidence from Barclays that his card and 
PIN were dispatched on separate days.  So, either someone with whom Mr C lives 
with was intercepting his post  or it was a fraudster from outside his home.  I dont 
think either is a possibility for the other reasons which I set out below;
-The cookies used to log onto the Barclays website during the application to open Mr 
Cs account were the same cookies used to log on multiple times thereafter  
including the times when the disputed transactions were made.  I think this means it 
was more likely than not Mr C logging on;
-In order to set up a new payee, Mr Cs card would need to have been inserted into a 
PIN sentry device and his correct PIN entered.  Barclays has confirmed such a 
device was ordered on Mr Cs account on 6th November 2019 and would have been 
delivered a few days later.  However, it has also confirmed - in the event Mr C says 
he did not receive this device -that they are not customer specific and that devices 
belonging to other customers can be used;
-When the payment of £39,000 was made, it was blocked whilst Barclays confirmed it 
was a genuine payment.  It sent a text message to the phone number it held for Mr C 
 the same number this service holds for him.  It received a Y in response 
confirming the payment was genuine.  Mr C submits he was having issues with his 
phone - but I have seen nothing which suggests he was the victim of a SIM swap or 
anything which would suggest his texts messages were being sent to a handset other 
than the one Mr C was in possession of.  I think it was more likely than not that Mr C 
responded to the text message himself;
-A few days after the disputed transactions, a payment of £5 from the beneficiary of 
the transactions credited Mr Cs account.  I can see no reason why a fraudster would 
do this;
-Finally, Mr Cs account as to how he discovered these transactions has changed 
from what he told Barclays on day of his complaint to what he filled out clearly in his complaint form to us over a month later.  He told the fraud team he had discovered 
the transactions when he had logged onto his online banking and had rushed to the 
branch to report them.  In his complaint form to us, he said he was at the branch in 
order to withdraw money when it was Barclays staff who told him. I dont think in such 
a short space of time Mr C would be confused as to what happened. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman