DRN-2951311
The complaint
Ms C and Mr W complain solicitors fees were wrongly paid by HSBC UK Bank Plc out of 
their mortgage account.
 
What happened
Ms C and Mr W have a mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) which is secured over 
their property.
In September 2020 a county court judgment was made against Ms C and Mr W for non-
payment of service charges due on their leasehold property.
Ms C and Mr W were living away from the property for some months and didnt know about 
the judgment. When they didnt pay what was owed, the solicitors acting for the leaseholder 
asked HSBC to pay the judgment debt and additional solicitors fees of £720. HSBC debited 
the total amount, including the solicitors fees, to Ms C and Mr Ws mortgage account in 
November 2020.
Ms C and Mr W first became aware of what had happened when they saw the charges on 
their mortgage statement in late December 2020. 
Ms C and Mr W understood HSBC had to pay the judgment debt to protect their security 
over the mortgaged property. But they were unhappy HSBC also paid the solicitors fees. 
They said they were for work that hadnt become necessary yet, they werent part of the 
judgment and there was no legal basis for HSBC to pay them  so HSBC had made a 
mistake. 
HSBC rejected their complaint about what had happened, so Ms C and Mr W brought their 
complaint to this service. Our investigator thought HSBC was entitled to pay the fees under 
the terms and conditions of Ms C and Mr Ws mortgage contract and it was reasonable for 
HSBC to have made it.
Since Ms C and Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view, Ive looked at everything 
afresh to come to a final decision about their complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Ms C and Mr Ws strength of feeling about what happened. And, whilst I may 
not mention everything they and HSBC have said in this decision, Id like to assure the 
parties Ive taken it all into account in coming to my decision. As well as considering the legal 
and contractual issues, Ive also thought about whats fair and reasonable for both parties in 
the circumstances of the case, in line with this services approach to resolving disputes. I 
address only the circumstances of Ms C and Mrs Ws complaint. Theyve raised some wider 
issues, but they are a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I think its helpful first to summarise in a bit more detail what happened.
The leaseholder of Ms C and Mr Ws property got a judgment against them for service 
charge arrears they owed and legal costs  the judgment debt - on 29 September 2020. 
When Ms C and Mr W failed to pay the judgment debt, the leaseholders solicitors contacted 
HSBC in mid-October. They enclosed a draft forfeiture notice and asked HSBC to pay an 
amount which, broadly, included the costs associated with preparing that notice  the £720. 
The letter implied if HSBC didnt pay the total amount requested, the notice would be sent to 
Ms C and Mr W and forfeiture action would go ahead. 
HSBC wrote to Ms C and Mr W on 22 October asking them to pay straight away. They said if 
they disputed the amount claimed, they should let HSBC know immediately; if they didnt pay 
straight away HSBC was entitled to make the payment on their behalf to protect their 
security and Ms C and Mr Ws title to the property; and the amount would be debited to their 
mortgage account and interest would be charged on any money paid.
By 11 November Ms C and Mr W hadnt responded to HSBC or paid the amount owing. So, 
HSBC paid it as theyd said they would. They wrote to Ms C and Mr W letting them know. 
I understand Ms C and Mr W were away from the property and werent aware of what had 
happened until December 2020. I havent seen any evidence Ms C and Mr W gave HSBC 
another address to use. So, its reasonable HSBC wrote to them there.
Ms C and Mr W say HSBC were wrong to pay the £720 fees for reasons which Ive 
summarised as follows:
The solicitors legal costs for obtaining the judgment were included in the judgment
The £720 is additional legal costs incurred after the judgment was obtained
The £720 was for preparing the forfeiture notice in anticipation of HSBC not paying 
the judgment debt
Since HSBC paid the judgment debt, the notice was never used and was 
unnecessary. HSBC should have realised that and refused to pay it
Theres no legal basis for HSBC paying the £720 - HSBCs interests would have 
been protected by paying just the judgment debt 
Its not right for HSBC to say it was appropriate for them to pay the fee because it 
appears reasonable. That would mean third party solicitors could get away with 
adding any costs if they looked reasonable 
HSBC should have looked at the legal basis for making the payment more carefully -
they made the payment in error
It is not the level of the fees charged for preparing the forfeiture notice that concerns 
them, but the fact they were charged at all  although they have said they consider 
the costs to be high
HSBC say they were entitled to pay the full amount the solicitors asked them to pay to 
protect their security.
Under the terms and conditions of Ms C and Mr Ws mortgage contract they must pay the 
service charges under their lease. 
They must also pay all fees, expenses, liabilities and legal and other costs reasonably 
incurred by or charged to [HSBC] relating tothe administration, protection and enforcement (including the costs of any legal proceedings) of the Mortgage. HSBC are entitled to add 
any such costs to the mortgage and charge interest on them.
The terms of the mortgage dont say that Ms C and Mr W must pay only those costs that 
have been ordered by the court. HSBC are entitled to add the costs to Ms C and Mr Ws 
mortgage account provided they are reasonably charged to HSBC and reasonable in 
amount, even if they are incurred after judgment.
I take on board Ms C and Mr Ws argument that it wasnt right for the solicitors to charge the 
additional fees because they were for work done in case HSBC didnt pay the judgment debt 
and the forfeiture action had to go ahead. Theyve also argued that, technically, it wasnt 
necessary for HSBC to pay the £720 to protect their security. But, even if thats right, I dont 
think that means it was unreasonable for HSBC to pay them in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
The court order required Ms C and Mr W to pay the judgment debt straight away. The 
solicitors waited around two weeks before taking further action and writing to HSBC to 
persuade them to pay instead. The draft forfeiture notice was widely drafted - it said fees 
could be charged under the terms of the lease for costs of and incidental to preparing and 
serving notice, whether or not forfeiture was avoided. Given Ms C and Mr W hadnt made 
payment as the court had ordered, I think it was reasonable for HSBC to think the further 
work the solicitors had carried out was fair and should be paid for.
HSBC didnt pay straight away. They told the solicitors theyd written to Ms C and Mr W 
asking them to make payment immediately and would contact the solicitors again two weeks 
later to check if they had.
HSBC asked Ms C and Mr W in their letter of 22 October 2020 whether they disputed the 
amount being claimed. And they gave them 14 days to pay themselves before HSBC paid 
and added the amount to their mortgage account. 
I think HSBC took appropriate steps to delay any further action against Ms C and Mr W while 
they gave them the chance to make the payment themselves and to check whether they 
agreed the amount the solicitors were asking HSBC to pay. Unfortunately, Ms C and Mr W 
werent there to receive their letter. But, on balance, I think HSBC did enough and it was 
reasonable at that stage for HSBC to go ahead and make the payment. 
Ms C and Mr W mentioned they thought the fee of £720 was high for the work they 
considered would have been needed to prepare the notice. In general terms, and when 
considered against the estimate of £3,000 for concluding forfeiture proceedings, I think it 
was fair for HSBC to think it was a reasonable amount. 
Ms C and Mr W say its up to HSBC to dispute the £720 with the solicitors who raised the 
fee. I disagree. The fee relates to legal proceedings taken by the leaseholder against Ms C 
and Mr W. The payment HSBC made was to protect their security over the property. They 
werent involved in the proceedings. If Ms C and Mr W wish to dispute things further, they 
can do so with the solicitors or leaseholders direct or with the appropriate regulatory body.
I understand this will be a disappointing outcome for Ms C and Mr W, particularly since the 
situation arose when they were away from their property and didnt know about the court 
action or what happened afterwards until December 2020. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably and I dont uphold Ms C and Mr Ws 
complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms C and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman