DRN-3802346
The complaint
Mr B is a sole trader. He complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined his 
application for a loan under the government-backed Recovery Loan Scheme. 
What happened
Mr B approached Barclays with a request to borrow £26,000 under the Recovery Loan 
Scheme in February 2022. 
Barclays declined Mr Bs application. It said this was because it didnt think the repayments 
would be affordable for Mr B.
Mr B appealed the decision, but it remained unchanged. Believing Barclays position to be 
unfair, he then referred the matter to us and it was reviewed by one of our investigators. He 
didnt think Barclays was acting in accordance with the rules and expectations of the Loan 
Scheme. In particular, he thought the bank had unfairly based its decision on past 
performance  and discounted the future profit that his business could generate by utilising 
the prospective loan.
Our investigator said, in summary, that the decision to lend ultimately rested with Barclays 
and he didnt think it had exercised its discretion unfairly in choosing to decline Mr Bs 
application. Having reviewed the basis of the decision, he thought it had reasonably 
concluded that the proposed loan wouldnt be affordable for Mr B. 
As Mr B didnt accept our investigators view, his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Recovery Loan Scheme, lenders were entitled  and expected  to 
assess the viability of the lending proposition. Applications were still subject to affordability 
and creditworthiness assessments in a similar way to conventional loans, with lenders 
retaining the discretion to consider requests in line with their usual underwriting policies.
Barclays has explained and evidenced that Mr Bs application didnt meet its affordability 
requirements. Ive looked at the basis of its decision and think it was reasonable, based on 
the information Mr B provided about his businesss income and expenditure. It also reviewed 
the application a second time on appeal, but reached the same decision for the same 
reason. It also gave Mr B a clear and timely explanation of its decision, on both occasions, in 
as much detail as was required. So I dont think it treated Mr B unfairly.  
I appreciate why Mr B would be unhappy with Barclays decision, and why he believes the 
bank should look at the possible profit he could make on receipt of the loan. But I dont agree 
that the banks criteria or process contravene the rules or expectations of the Loan Scheme 
in any way. Lenders were entitled to overlook concerns about short-to-medium term 
business performance owing to the pandemic, but werent obliged to do so. And they 
certainly werent expected to disregard past performance altogether. Barclays had a level of 
discretion as to how it would assess applications, and factoring in the past performance of a 
business to assess whether a new loan is affordable is common practice and, in my view, 
reasonable. 
Mr B has also highlighted that holding a Bounce Back Loan wasnt a barrier to accessing a 
further loan under the Recovery Loan Scheme. Thats correct. But its reasonable for any 
repayments due under any other loan  including a Bounce Back Loan  to be factored into 
a lenders affordability assessment. Ive not seen that this was decisive in Mr Bs case, but  
even if it had been  it wouldnt lead me to think Barclays had acted unfairly.
As Im satisfied that Barclays decision to decline Mr Bs application was made in line with 
both the expectations of lenders under the Loan Scheme and the banks standard criteria, 
there is no basis on which I can say it acted unfairly. 
Ive taken into account everything Mr B has said and provided to us, including his comments 
on what he believes to have been Barclays requirements under the Basel Framework. That 
framework does not, in my view, mean that Barclays ought to have handled Mr Bs loan 
application any differently (rather, it sets out the much broader prudential regulatory 
requirements on banks, that have no bearing on the matters at issue here).
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B as I understand he feels very strongly about this matter and 
given his strong belief that he wouldve been able to service the loan if given the opportunity. 
I hope that an independent assessment of the matter will, at least, offer him some comfort 
that his application wasnt handled unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman