DRN-3282615
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc unfairly charged interest on a credit card account.
What happened
Mr P had a Sainsburys Bank credit card. When he took out the account, it included an 
interest free period.
From January 2021, interest was added to the outstanding balance. Mr P complained about 
this. He said it was unfair because the end date of the interest free period hadnt been clear 
in correspondence and also that his vulnerability due to health conditions hadnt been taken 
into account.
When Sainsburys Bank rejected his complaint, Mr P referred it to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think Sainsburys Bank had acted unreasonably. Mr P didnt agree and 
has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has provided our service with a large amount of information, particularly since our 
investigator gave her opinion on his complaint. While I dont intend to address or refer to 
everything hes provided, I have reviewed everything hes sent us as part of my 
considerations for this complaint. Having done so, I think that Mr Ps complaint can be 
broken down into two distinct elements  that Sainsburys Bank werent clear when the 
interest free period would end, and it didnt properly assess his vulnerability when charging 
interest. Ill address these separately.
The interest free period end date
Some important points which are relevant to my considerations here dont seem to be in 
dispute here: 
The credit agreement Mr P entered into with Sainsburys Bank began in April 2018. 
The credit agreement included an interest free period which was stated within the 
credit agreement as lasting for 33 months. 
On the credit card statements sent to Mr P by Sainsburys Bank, the expiry date of 
decision the interest free period was consistently given as 5 January 2021. 
The statement sent to Mr P in December 2020 (the last one before 5 January 2021) 
included reference to the end date for the interest free period as 5 January 2021. 
The terms and conditions of the account are clear in saying that interest will be applied at the 
stated rates after the end of the interest free period on any outstanding account balance.
Mr P refers to the credit agreement and that this was stated to expire at the end of June 
2021. This was the expiry date of the credit card. He says that he mistakenly misinterpreted 
this as meaning that the interest free period ended in June 2021. Having looked at the credit 
agreement, I cant agree that the expiry date in June 2021 was linked, or suggested to be 
linked, to the interest free period. 
I dont think theres sufficient ambiguity in anything sent to Mr P to infer or indicate that the 
interest free period ended in June 2021. The credit agreement (which included the expiry 
date of June 2021) was started in April 2018 and stated within this that the interest free 
period was 33 months. June 2021 was more than 33 months from April 2018. I dont think it 
would be reasonable for me to conclude that the account expiry date and end of the interest 
free period could be the same. 
Im also conscious that Sainsburys Bank had been regularly informing Mr P when the 
interest free period would end. This date was consistent and always given as 5 January 
2021. If Mr P was unsure of the end date for the interest free period at any time after April 
2018 and believed it to end in June 2021, despite what was stated in correspondence from 
Sainsburys Bank, he could have contacted it to discuss the matter. It isnt disputed that he 
didnt do so. 
Mr P says the reason he was unaware that the interest free period was ending was because 
family members were removing his post before he could open it to limit the possible 
transmission of Covid-19. He was shielding due to underlying health conditions. I understand 
that this may have meant he didnt see himself that the interest free period was ending. But 
Sainsburys Bank had fulfilled its obligations to send him the statements and highlight within 
these that the interest free period was ending. I cant reasonably say it could have done, or 
should have done, anything more to make Mr P aware of this. 
Sainsburys Bank is entitled to charge interest on the outstanding balance once the interest 
free period had ended. Im satisfied that the end date of interest free period was made clear 
in the correspondence sent to Mr P by Sainsburys Bank. It cant be held responsible if, for 
reasons outside of its control, this correspondence wasnt received or reviewed by Mr P 
himself. It also seems that payments were being made on the account during that period so I 
cant conclude that Sainsburys Bank could have, or should have, been aware that its 
correspondence wasnt being reviewed by Mr P.
Mr Ps vulnerability and the fairness of applying interest
Mr P says that his health conditions mean that its unreasonable for Sainsburys Bank to 
apply interest to his account. He doesnt seem to dispute that Sainsburys Bank wasnt made 
aware of any health issues prior to it applying interest on the account. As Ive concluded that 
it acted fairly in applying interest at the end of the interest free period, and it hadnt been 
made aware of any vulnerabilities or other matters related to Mr Ps health before that date, I 
think it was fair to apply the interest in line with the account terms and conditions.
I have considered whether Sainsburys Bank acted reasonably by declining to remove the 
interest charged on the account once Mr P had made it aware of his health conditions. Mr P 
hasnt suggested that his health conditions meant that he experienced financial difficulties 
which meant he was unable to pay off the account balance. He also hasnt made us aware 
of any exacerbation of a condition, or new health problem, which occurred around the time 
that the interest free period ended which prevented him from paying off the account balance 
at that time.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ps health conditions were such that the application of interest by 
Sainsburys Bank in line with the terms and conditions of the account was unreasonable. 
Those conditions havent impacted (from what Ive seen) his financial situation during the relevant period meaning he was unable to make the necessary payments to avoid interest 
being charged, or he was physically unable to do so. It seems to be his contention that his 
health conditions meant he was prevented access to correspondence which highlighted the 
end date for the interest free period. As Ive said above, Sainsburys Bank had fulfilled its 
obligations by sending the correspondence highlighting this end date. 
I conclude that Sainsburys Bank acted fairly when it applied interest charges to the account 
in accordance with the terms and conditions.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman