DRN-3384547
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the quality of a boiler she financed through a fixed sum loan with 
Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision about this complaint in February 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im expecting to uphold this complaint, but I dont think the investigator has considered the 
use Mrs O has had from the boiler and the redress Im expecting to order is therefore 
different: Ill explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs O made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
I think there has been a breach of contract here. In 2018 a report from the service company
explained that the boiler hadnt been fitted to current standards and that remedial action was
required. Its not disputed that that was the case.
The relevant legislation explains that a business has one opportunity to repair a fault that is
present at the point of supply and I think its clear this boiler hadnt been fitted properly and
therefore had a fault at the point of supply. The faults that were reported in 2018 have yet to 
be fully rectified. Ikano say that attempts have been made to attend the property and that 
Mrs O hasnt provided the quotes she promised to get the work done.
Ive considered Mrs Os testimony as well and I find it persuasive. It had been agreed that 
the supplier would repair the boiler on 11 August 2021. Mrs O says she and her husband 
were in all day. She emailed this service in the morning to explain that the supplier had still 
not arrived, and I think that suggests she was in and had been waiting.
Mrs O explained that she spoke to the supplier the next day and they explained that a 
plumber had attended. Mrs O says she asked for the engineers company name and 
telephone number, but the supplier didnt provide that. By this point the seriousness of the 
situation must have been very clear to the supplier. Mrs O had been complaining for over 
three years and had already referred her complaint to this service. Had they attended and 
not been able to gain entry I think its likely they would have contacted Ikano to explain and I 
would have expected to see evidence of phone calls to Mrs O and/or emails on the day the 
visit was planned. Im persuaded it's likely the plumber didnt attend as scheduled and I think 
the repair has therefore failed.
And, even if Im wrong about that, the relevant legislation says a repair should be completed 
in a reasonable period of time. Mrs O has now been waiting for nearly four years and I dont 
think that could be considered a reasonable period of time. I understand Ikanos arguments 
that Mrs O hasnt provided evidence she sent quotes to the supplier, but those quotes 
werent discussed until July 2018 and by then the supplier had already failed to attend on 3 
July 2018. I think its reasonable for a consumer to expect a business to be more proactive 
when trying to resolve a problem.
Im persuaded by Mrs Os consistent testimony that its likely appointments were regularly
missed and that also persuades me that a repair hasnt been provided in a reasonable time.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation says the consumer should be entitled to 
reject the goods and thats what our investigator said should happen. She thought Ikano 
should end the finance agreement and return all monies paid including the deposit.
But the relevant legislation says that in these circumstances the business should be entitled 
to withhold some of the payments that have been made in respect of the use the consumer 
has had from the goods.
Here, Mrs O has been able to use the boiler although its not been serviced and has 
problems. So, I think its fair she pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that the monthly 
repayments of over £48 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. This is 
because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest and servicing.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement,
Mrs Os likely overall usage of the boiler, the impact to the boilers efficiency that may have
resulted from a lack of servicing, and the likely cost of servicing. In doing so, I think a fair
amount Mrs O should pay is £25 for each month she had use of the boiler. This means that 
Im expecting to tell Ikano they can only retain £25 of each monthly payment Mrs O has, or 
will, make up until the end of March 2022, the point at which I think this complaint should 
reasonably be settled by. Anything Mrs O has paid including any deposit (although I dont 
think one was paid in this instance) in excess of that amount should be treated as an 
overpayment.
Wed usually tell the business to take ownership of the goods in those circumstances. But 
here that may present some problems as Ikano may not wish to incur the costs to have the goods removed, the boiler will have depreciated in value, and I think its unlikely to be 
economically viable for them to do so.
Mrs O may also not want the added hassle of having to replace the boiler and she may not
wish, or be in a position, to take out a new credit commitment for a replacement if the boiler 
is removed. Although, if Mrs O keeps the boiler the repair work will still need to be completed 
and, in the absence of the credit agreement that was supposed to fund the service plan, 
shell be without a plan.
Taking all that into account Im not expecting to suggest Ikano take ownership of the goods. I
think Mrs O should be allowed to keep them but to compensate Ikano for that loss Im not
expecting to ask them to pay any compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience
Mrs O has experienced.
I can see that an independent inspection of the boiler system was completed in August 
2018. Its not clear from our file notes who paid for that inspection, although I note that Ikano 
have suggested the supplier would reimburse the cost. If Mrs O did pay for that inspection 
and hasnt received a refund I think it would be fair for Ikano to reimburse her on provision of 
the receipt.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Ikano 
Bank AB (publ) to:
End the agreement.
Refund all the payments Mrs O has made, less £25 per month for each month from
the date of the agreement to the end of March 2022 for fair usage.
If Mrs O has paid more than the fair usage figure, Ikano should refund any
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
If Mrs O has paid less than the fair usage figure, Ikano should arrange an affordable
and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
Once Ikano has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse
information recorded on Mrs Os credit file regarding the agreement.
Refund the cost of any independent inspection Mrs O has paid for and hasnt been
reimbursed for if she can provide a receipt. Add 8% simple interest per year to any
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Ikano to take off tax from this interest. Ikano must give 
Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mrs O asks for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O didnt provide any further information but Ikano did. They didnt dispute my provisional 
decision but asked about the fair usage calculation. They explained that they had suspended 
payments during the s75 claim as a gesture of goodwill and wanted me to clarify if the £25 
per month I was suggesting they retain was to be calculated against what should have been 
paid or what had been paid.As that amount is to recompense Ikano for the use Mrs O has had from the goods it should 
be retained for every month Mrs O has had the goods regardless of whether payments were 
suspended. 
Putting things right
I havent been given any additional information that has led me to change my provisional 
decision and that now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell Ikano Bank AB (publ) to:
End the agreement.
Refund all the payments Mrs O has made, less £25 per month for each month from
the date of the agreement to the end of March 2022 for fair usage.
If Mrs O has paid more than the fair usage figure, Ikano should refund any
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
If Mrs O has paid less than the fair usage figure, Ikano should arrange an affordable
and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
Once Ikano has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse
information recorded on Mrs Os credit file regarding the agreement.
Refund the cost of any independent inspection Mrs O has paid for and hasnt been
reimbursed for if she can provide a receipt. Add 8% simple interest per year to any
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Ikano to take off tax from this interest. Ikano must give 
Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mrs O asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman