DRN-2778231
The complaint
Mr S complained about some damage he said was caused by British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas).
What happened
Mr S contacted British Gas under his home emergency policy because he found a leak 
coming from a pipe joint in the cupboard housing his boiler, which caused damage. British 
Gas sent an engineer, who carried out a repair. 
Following the visit, Mr S complained to British Gas because he said the leak was the result 
of faulty work carried out by British Gas several years ago. When British Gas replied it said 
there was nothing to suggest there was an issue with the way the pipework was installed.
When Mr S complained to this service, our investigator looked at what happened and didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt evidence to show the leak and damage was the 
result of the work previously carried out.
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require British Gas to do anything further. I will explain why.
Several years ago, Mr S had work carried out to relocate and install a new boiler. When Mr S 
had a smart meter fitted, he checked whether the boiler had been switched on and found a 
leak from a pipe joint, which had caused damage to his property.
British Gas sent an engineer under Mr Ss HomeCare policy. The engineer carried out a 
repair and Mr S said the engineer told him the leaking joint hadnt been properly soldered 
and that the damage looked like it was the result of an ongoing leak over many years. British 
Gas said that when it spoke to the engineer, he said that if he had thought it was poor 
workmanship he would have reported it and that he couldnt give a reason for why it had 
happened as there wasnt anything obvious that it could have been. So, I think its difficult to 
take the evidence from the engineer about the cause as conclusive either way. This doesnt 
mean that Im ignoring what Mr S said he was told, but the engineer seemed to revise his 
position on why the leak might have happened. 
Mr S has also said photos showed the damage was long term. Looking at the photos, I think 
these indicate that there might have been an issue for a while, but I dont think they give an 
indication of how long or whether that dated back to around the time the original work was 
carried out. Mr S has also said the damage hadnt been found earlier because it was in an 
area that wasnt easy to access. But, again, that doesnt tell me when the leak most likely 
started or why.
Mr S also said he spoke to a plumber who said that a solder joint done correctly would last 
forever and that on the rare occasions the plumber had seen them fail, it was very shortly 
after the work was carried out. I accept this is the plumbers professional opinion. However, 
Im also aware that British Gas has said that if the leak was a longstanding issue, potentially 
dating back to the time when the original work was carried out, there would have been other 
issues, including with the water pressure. I note that Mr S disagreed that there would have 
been a drop in pressure and said that if British Gas had investigated properly that it would 
have found the leak was from the cold-water feed pipe and not the heating circulation 
system. But looking at British Gass record of the visit, these said the issue was with the hot 
water feed.
Mr S also said British Gas refunded his £60 excess because the damage looked like it was 
caused by the original work it carried out and that the issue would be referred to its insurer. 
Ive looked at British Gas records and these confirm that the excess was refunded because 
Mr S had said he didnt feel he should have to pay it due to previous work failing and the call 
handler could see the previous work in its records. The call handler also said the complaint 
would be sent to British Gas insurer if a manager felt it was liable. I think Mr S and British 
Gas accounts of what happened are very similar. I think the call handler refunded the 
excess based on Mr Ss description of what had happened, which I think was reasonable, 
and that he explained about referring the matter to insurers. Beyond that I think its difficult to 
say what happened.
The damage then seems to have been referred to British Gas insurer to investigate. Mr S 
said he was told to make a home insurance claim and, in Mr Ss words, let the two insurers 
work it out between them. In the circumstances, I think that was reasonable, including 
because there seems to be no agreement between British Gas and Mr S on what the 
engineer found, which pipe had leaked or the amount of time that the pipe had been leaking. 
This enabled Mr S potentially to get the damage dealt with and for British Gas to discuss any 
liability with the insurer if that turned out to be relevant.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think it was reasonable that British Gas carried out a 
repair, investigated what happened and, having done so, suggested that Mr S make a home 
insurance claim. As a result, I dont require British Gas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman