DRN-1697148
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs U complain that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined a 
terminal illness claim they made on their life insurance policy.
What happened
In 2003 Mr and Mrs U took out a decreasing life insurance policy with L&G with a term of 25 
years. The policy provided cover in the event of the death of the first life assured or, upon 
the diagnosis of a terminal illness at least 18 months before the policy expiry date.
Mr U was diagnosed with left ventricular systolic dysfunction (heart failure) in 2016. And in 
early 2020 he was admitted to A&E due to suffering from shortness of breath and diagnosed 
with dilated cardiomyopathy. 
Mr U made a terminal illness claim in January 2020 but this was declined by L&G. They said 
his condition didnt meet the definition of a terminal illness under the policy. And so, while 
they would consider any further medical information he could provide, they couldnt support 
the claim at that time. 
The matter was referred to our service but our investigator didnt think L&G had unfairly 
declined the claim. She said Mr U hadnt provided the required medical evidence to show his 
life expectancy was no greater than 12 months. And that this was required to meet the policy 
definition of a terminal illness. So, although the medical evidence he had provided shows his 
treating physicians consider him to be at risk, she didnt think this was enough for a 
successful claim to be made.
Mr U disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons as the investigator. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr 
and Mrs U as this has been a difficult time for them. But Id like to take some time to explain 
how Ive reached my decision.  
Id like to firstly say that I dont underestimate the impact Mr Us health condition is having on 
him. And that I appreciate why he feels, given the seriousness of his condition, it should be 
covered under the policy as a terminal illness. But what Ive got to consider is whether L&G 
has acted fairly by declining the claim, based on the information available to them at the 
time, and in line with the terms of the policy. 
The policy conditions say:
If either Life Assured has an advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness where, 
in the opinion of an attending Consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, the life expectancy is no greater than 12 months, Legal & General will make an advance 
payment of the Sum Assured payable for the policy year in which the Terminal Illness 
Benefit is paid
Ive considered the medical evidence Mr U has provided as part of his claim and it doesnt 
confirm, or suggest, that he has less than 12 months to live. And so, Im satisfied that he 
hasnt met the policy condition required for the terminal illness benefit to be paid.
Mr U says he didnt receive any policy documents when it was set up and that he thinks L&G 
has only recently made up this definition. While I cant be sure what documents Mr and Mrs 
U received, L&G has confirmed they were sent. So, if they werent received, then I think its 
reasonable to have expected Mr and Mrs U to have contacted L&G about this or for them to 
have spoken to the financial advisor who recommended the policy. 
Im also satisfied the condition L&G is relying upon to decline the claim is part of the policy 
conditions Mr and Mrs U agreed to when the policy was set up. So, Im not persuaded L&G 
has changed the terminal illness benefit claim requirements of the policy. I also think its 
worth noting that this type of condition  requiring medical evidence to support the 
policyholder has less than 12 months to live - is relatively common in these types of policies. 
And so, I dont think its inherently unfair or unreasonable for L&G to require Mr and Mrs U to 
provide it.
Mr U has also mentioned that he wants all the premiums theyve paid returned. But I dont 
think that would be reasonable given Ive not seen anything to suggest L&G has managed 
the policy incorrectly, or outside the terms of the contract they agreed to. If, however, Mr and 
Mrs U have any concerns in respect of how the policy was sold then they will have to direct 
these to the financial adviser who recommended them the policy.
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr U was hoping for but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think L&G has unfairly declined the claim. If they have any further evidence to support their 
claim, then they should provide that to L&G. They could also make a new claim to L&G, any 
time before the policy ends. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman