DRN-3811730
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against his private 
medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr J had a private medical insurance policy underwritten by  
Aviva which he first took out on 1 November 2020. 
In January 2021, Mr J became unwell and on 1 February 2021 he made a claim against 
his policy. Aviva authorised certain consultations and Mr J saw a vascular surgeon and, 
subsequently, a cardiologist. When Mr J claimed in relation to further consultations, 
Aviva said that it required further medical information from Mr J. It asked Mr J to 
complete a consent form for access to his health and medical information. Mr J declined 
to do so. 
Mr J wants Aviva to accept the evidence hes provided and compensate him for its 
delays. 
In response to Mr Js complaint, Aviva maintained its position but apologised for its 
inconsistent approach  it had explained that further information was required but then 
agreed to cover some further appointments. It offered Mr J compensation of £100 in 
relation to that. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Aviva had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in seeking further medical information. The investigator 
said Avivas offer of compensation of £100 in relation to its handling of Mr Js claim was 
reasonable.  
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator. He responded in some detail. Essentially, Mr J 
said that the delays in providing authorisation for treatment and consultations had a 
negative impact on his health. He seeks substantial compensation from Aviva. Mr J says 
that hes provided sufficient information to Aviva. He says that Avivas request that he 
sign a consent form for access to his medical records amounts to a criminal offence. 
Mr J has funded some treatment himself and is on a waiting list for some treatment in the 
NHS. He has stopped paying his premium in relation to his policy with Aviva. 
Mr J asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr J has strong feelings about this matter. His submissions are detailed and 
comprehensive. Ive summarised the basic facts of the case and presented them in a lot less 
detail. No discourtesy is intended by that. Were an informal alternative to the courts. We 
have no power to find that a criminal offence has been committed  thats for the courts. 
Our role is to consider all of the evidence we receive, decide whats relevant (and what isnt) 
to reaching a fair outcome, and come to a conclusion on how we think the dispute should be 
settled. So, I wont be addressing all of the points Mr J has made. That doesnt mean Ive 
ignored what hes said. Ive considered everything Mr J and Aviva have said and provided 
but I confine my findings to the issues on which the outcome of the complaint turns. 
the relevant terms and conditions 
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which says 
as follows:
Moratorium (this is sometimes known as mori)
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, if you had:
 symptoms of
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition in the five years before you joined the policy.
However, we will cover that condition if you do not have:
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition during a continuous two year period after you join the policy.
With mori underwriting the claims process may take a bit longer, as each time you make a 
claim we look at your medical history, and may ask for information from your GP, to 
understand if your symptom or condition is new or pre-existing.
How to claim
[]
We may ask for more information to assess your claim, such as:
 medical reports relating to your treatment
 previous medical records
 a doctor's report if we need one, and
 original bills and receipts where appropriate (not copies).
[]
has Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Mr Js complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. Mr Js policy is on a moratorium basis. That means that it doesnt cover pre-
existing medical conditions he had in the five years before the policy first began 
until he has been a member for two years in a row and had a period of two years in 
a row trouble-free from the condition which led to the claim.  
Mr Js policy provides that Aviva may ask for previous medical records. Based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think that Aviva was at fault in asking Mr J to complete a 
medical consent form. Its necessary for Aviva to see Mr Js medical records in 
order to assess his claim. 
Ive thought about whether Aviva treated Mr J unfairly or unreasonably in failing to 
proceed on the basis of the information provided by Mr J, but I dont think it did.    
Mr J provided Aviva with medical reports and copies of parts of his medical 
records. He redacted information before April 2017. The effective date for the 
moratorium is 1 November 2020. So, Aviva wishes to see medical information from                       
1 November 2015. I dont think that Aviva treated Mr J unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining to proceed on the basis of the information he provided. And its not 
unreasonable for Aviva to require information direct from Mr Js GP, rather than 
redacted notes from Mr J.
I can see from Avivas notes that its initial approach to Mr Js claim was somewhat 
piecemeal. It was no doubt confusing for Mr J to have certain consultations 
approved and then be asked for access to his medical information. I think that 
Avivas offer of compensation of £100 in relation to that is fair and reasonable. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct 
Aviva to either authorise his claim or pay him compensation in excess of that which 
it has already offered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. If Mr J wishes to accept the 
compensation of £100 already offered by Aviva, he should contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman