DRN-3731962
The complaint
Mr E complained that HSBC UK Bank Plcs (trading as First Direct), on-line international 
payment service was misleading and gave inadequate warning of the high fees charged.
What happened
On 6 October 2021, Mr E used First Direct on-line banking to make an international 
payment. He wanted the recipient to receive a payment in Euros. 
First Directs online international payment set up enables the customer to select one of the 
following three options:
1) I want to pay the First Direct fees only
2) I want to pay all the fees
3) I want the beneficiary to pay all the fees
Mr E had previously used this system to pay the same recipient and on that occasion had 
selected I want to pay all fees, and the recipient received the full amount. On 6 October 
2021, Mr E decided to use the facility to insert pre-used payee details. However, it did not 
populate the same fees option. The system defaulted to I want to pay the First Direct fees 
only and, as the fees were a high proportion of the amount sent, the recipient received less 
than they expected. This meant it was necessary for Mr E to send another 80 Euros on 14 
October 2021, this time selecting to I want to pay all the fees. 
Mr E complained to First Direct. He says he didnt realise that the system had defaulted to a 
different option on this occasion, so there should have been an explanation or warning 
where the fees were so high. Furthermore, he questioned the appropriateness of First Direct 
facilitating services where the fees are so high.
First Direct could not see they had made any errors. They emphasised the best option was I 
want to pay all the fees and highlighted that banks may still pass their charges back, 
resulting in an account debit. They said that whilst payment account details will remain on Mr 
E's record for future payments, the fee preference needs to be updated each time a payment 
is made as they cant assume the same preference is required. They pointed out Mr E would 
have been notified of this on previous occasions. Also, that the option to change this and the 
impact is clearly stated and then further displayed on the confirmation page before the 
payment is sent. First Direct added they would consider his feedback.
Mr E complained to this service. Our investigator considered Mr Es complaint. Her view was 
that Mr E had been presented with a screen to review fees before making the payment and 
therefore she didnt feel First Direct can be held accountable.
As Mr E remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand both his frustration and concern, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es 
complaint for the following reasons:
It may help to start by saying that this service doesnt regulate business processes, 
procedures, or systems. So I cant tell First Direct to make the improvements he suggests. 
But what I can consider is whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint.
So Ive looked closely at screenshots of First Directs international payment system, 
including the setting up of fees and saving of beneficiary information. I also read Mr Es 
description of the transaction. I can understand Mr E thinking that the system would bring up 
the fees option he last used, and not realising this wasnt the case. But while I can 
understand why Mr E says he feels duped, I can also see that the fees and options were 
explained to him before he made the transaction. He also had the opportunity to fully check 
the transaction before making it. As Mr E proceeded to complete the transaction without 
doing so, it wouldnt be fair to hold First Direct liable for any losses here. 
Regarding Mr Es complaint about the level of fees and the appropriateness of First Direct 
facilitating services where the fees are so high. I can see why Mr E says that the 
international payment fees for this particular country are high. But I note that First Directs 
system states Fees applied by the beneficiary's bank and any other banks used to send the 
payment are not within our control. Also, their Account Terms and Conditions and Charges 
state If we send money outside the UK, we may use an intermediatory bank. The 
intermediatory and the bank receiving the money may apply their own charges. 
I recognise First Direct need to be able to provide global international payment services and 
Im satisfied that in providing such services they inform their customers that they cant 
control certain fees. Also, as mentioned above First Direct have said that even when 
selecting I want to pay all the fees this depends on overseas banks terms and conditions 
and they may still pass their charges back, which would result in an account debit. 
Regarding inadequate warnings for fees which are out of kilter with other foreign 
transactions, as Ive mentioned its not for this service to tell First Direct what its processes 
and systems should be. But in the circumstances and when looked at impartially, Im 
satisfied that these didnt have an unfair outcome here  even if I realise Mr E will see it 
differently. He was given the option to make the payment he wanted in the way he wanted 
to, but ultimately didnt select that. First Direct has said that it has taken his feedback on 
board, which is as much as Id expect here.
So, while I understand Mr Es frustrations here, I havent seen anything which suggests First 
Direct have acted unreasonably or unfairly and I dont think First Direct need to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman