DRN-3112525
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt offered him a fair settlement following a 
claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M bought a supercar for around £84,000 and insured it with Aviva. 
Shortly after taking the policy out, Mr M was involved in a road traffic collision and made a 
claim. Aviva declared his car a total loss. It offered Mr M £43,325.95 to settle his claim 
(minus his policy excess).
Mr M complained to Aviva about the offer and also about the service hed had from Aviva 
when handling his claim. 
Aviva upheld Mr Ms complaint about its service and offered him £150 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience this had caused him. I understand Mr M accepted this offer.
But Aviva didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint about the valuation of his car. It said Mr Ms policy 
covered him for its market value at the time of the loss and explained how it had assessed 
this. It said having looked at everything again, a senior technical engineer had confirmed the 
valuation.
More recently, Aviva has said it thinks its original offer was an overvalue because Mr Ms car 
had previously been declared a Category B write-off, shouldnt have been on the road and 
had salvage value only. It says this value is about £20,000 to £25,000.
So Mr M has brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it didnt uphold it. 
He said Mr Ms car had previously been declared a Category B write-off by another insurer, 
so shouldnt have been on the road. He said Mr M knew the car had been damaged and 
repaired in the past but hadnt carried out any checks on the cars history which wouldve 
told him about this. In these circumstances he thought Avivas settlement offer was fair.
Mr M disagrees. He says weve ignored a report from his engineer which valued the car at 
around £100,000, despite it being a previous Category B write-off. He also says the 
majority of people whod want to buy the car would have little regard to a previous Category 
B write-off, as long as they were satisfied with its authenticity and the standard of repairs 
carried out.
So Mr Ms complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Our approach to complaints about car valuations following an insurance claim is to look first 
at the policy. In Mr Ms case, this says if theres loss or damage to his car, the most Aviva 
will pay is its market value. And Mr Ms policy says this is the cost of replacing his car with 
one of the same make, model, specification and condition of his car.
From what Ive seen, Aviva initially followed the approach wed expect it to take and valued 
Mr Ms car at £155,000 based on two of the pricing guides that are commonly used to value 
second hand cars. It says it then deducted £111,674.05 from that amount, this being 50% of 
the retail cost to replace the cars damaged body shell. Once Mr Ms excess of £700 was 
deducted, this left a settlement amount of £42,625.95. 
Aviva says Mr Ms car wouldve cost £248,000 to repair. But Aviva hasnt been able to 
explain on what basis it made its deduction of £111,674.05.
In this particular complaint, however, not knowing how Aviva reached its settlement offer 
(which it has agreed still stands) doesnt affect my findings. Thats because I think the crucial 
thing here is that the car Mr M bought was a previous Category B write-off. The 
Association of British Insurers Code of Practice for the disposal of motor vehicle salvage at 
the time Mr Ms car was written off said this meant the car was to be kept off the road, but 
could be broken up for spare parts. So, for insurance purposes, the car Mr M bought actually 
only had a salvage value.
Mr M says he bought the car in good faith. I can see he had it checked over and serviced by 
a supercar dealership. He also had a log book and an MOT certificate for the car. And Mr M 
has a report from his own engineer valuing the car at just over £100,000. In that report, 
among other things Mr Ms engineer says if Aviva accepted the claim it should honour a 
reasonable settlement, especially since the car had a log book and Mr M bought it in good 
faith. 
I dont agree. From what he says, Mr M knew the car had been damaged and repaired 
previously when he bought it. He paid around £84,000 for it. This is well below the valuation 
Aviva gave of £155,000 (before deductions). So possibly the price Mr M paid was intended 
to reflect the previous damage and repairs. 
Mr M says his car is a prestige car and part of motor racing history. And yet he didnt check 
the cars previous history before he bought it. These checks are quick and easy to do. I think 
any prospective buyer exercising reasonable care would run such a check in this situation, 
knowing that the car had been damaged previously. And Mr M told our investigator that, if 
hed known the car was a Category B write-off, he wouldnt have bought it.
Both Mr M and his engineer have said that, since Aviva accepted the risk, it shouldve done 
its own investigations into the cars history. But its not standard industry practice for insurers 
offering the sort of car insurance policy Mr M bought to carry out these checks before it puts 
a car on risk. And we dont expect them to.
Mr Ms arguments about the resale value of the car dont change my conclusions on this 
complaint. Having been a Category B write-off, I think its value was only as salvage. I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Aviva essentially to bear the cost of Mr M not 
checking the history of the car before he bought it. 
Mr M has queried how his car could have a log book and MOT certificate when, as a write-
off, it shouldve been stripped for parts some years ago. Like our investigator, I dont know 
the answer to this. But I think these are matters for the seller from whom Mr M bought the 
car, the DVLA and the previous insurer who wrote it off, not for us.Aviva says its settlement offer to Mr M of £43,325.95 (minus his excess) still stands. It says 
that, in line with its salvage data, it would expect the car to achieve around £20,000 to 
£25,000 in the salvage market. And Avivas engineers report gave the car a market value of 
around £24,500, based on the previous total loss and what he describes as previous poor 
unsafe repairs to the body structure. Given that Avivas offer is considerably more than the 
likely salvage value of       Mr Ms car, I think its settlement offer is fair and reasonable and I 
dont think it should pay more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman