DRN-3599920
The complaint
Mr R complains that Gatehouse Bank Plc caused a delay in crediting his funds to his 
account and has breached its terms and conditions.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Below, 
I have highlighted some key dates I think are relevant to the complaint:
27 July 2021: Mr Rs account is opened online.
28 July 2021: Mr R sends deposits to credit his account.
29 July 2021: The account is credited. 
3 August 2021: Gatehouse receive an email from Mr R explaining that he is unable to 
view messages in his account inbox. 
Gatehouse didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint but later offered £25 compensation. It says this 
reflected the trouble and upset Mr R suffered as he expected his funds to be credited on the 
day he deposited them. Mr R didnt accept this and is seeking an increased amount of 
compensation.   
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons.
Mr R opened a one-year fixed rate account on 27 July 2021 and funded his account on 
28 July 2021 with £84,100. The funds didnt show in the account until 29 July 2021, because 
of this Mr R has said Gatehouse were in breach of the terms and conditions associated with 
the account. Hes said under the clause referring to payments, there is no mention of any cut 
off times or clearing banks. Gatehouse has said it wasnt in breach of its terms because 
Mr R sent over his funds after 1pm and so the payment wasnt processed until the following 
day.  
I dont agree that Gatehouse were in breach of its terms and conditions, Ill explain why. Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions in detail, the condition I think is most relevant to this 
complaint states: 
5.1 Subject to your account being opened in line with this agreement, your funds to open the 
account will be credited to your account on the date we receive them (unless received after 
the payment cut-off time, which is 1pm), or the next business date.     
The terms and conditions required Gatehouse to credit Mr Rs account on the day it received 
them, subject to it receiving them before 1pm. Whilst I can understand the frustration and 
worry Mr R said this delay caused him I am satisfied that the clause allowed Gatehouse to 
credit Mr Rs account the following working day and so I cant say it has acted unfairly. 
Gatehouse has confirmed the maturity date was updated on the account within 24 hours to 
show the date of 28 July 2021. So, whilst I accept Mr Rs worry, Im satisfied the account 
was promptly updated. 
Mr R said he got in touch with Gatehouse when his funds didnt show on his account, but he 
wasnt able to view the replies to his queries. I understand this wouldve been frustrating, but 
Ive thought about if this was something Gatehouse couldve prevented. Gatehouse 
confirmed it didnt have any system issues at the time. I dont dispute that Mr R wasnt able 
to view his messages online, but Ive not seen anything to suggest this was as a result of an 
error by Gatehouse. 
Following Gatehouses investigation into Mr Rs concerns, Mr R requested copies of call 
transcripts  there was some back and forth before this request was fulfilled and Mr R 
complains about the delay in Gatehouse providing this information. From what Ive seen, 
Gatehouse received a Data Subject Access Request on 6 October 2021 and provided the 
information requested on 4 November 2021, within one month. 
But Mr R has provided evidence which suggests he made this request much earlier, in 
August 2021. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) regulates compliance to data 
protection laws in the UK. If Mr R wants to complain about the format Gatehouse did or 
didnt supply his information, he can direct this complaint to the ICO.
Overall, I think Gatehouse caused Mr R distress and inconvenience by delaying sending 
Mr R his information. Mr R chased this request several times and waited longer than he 
shouldve. Because of this I think Gatehouse should pay Mr R £50 compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint; Gatehouse Bank Plc should pay Mr R £50 for reasons Ive explained 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman