DRN-3422836
The complaint
Mr R is a sole trader. He complains that the hire agreement he entered into with 
Grenke Leasing Limited was mis-sold.
Mr R is represented in bringing the complaint by a third party, Mr W.
What happened
Mr R entered into a hire agreement with Grenke in September 2018. He hired a commercial 
LED display and some related technological equipment and services (which Ill refer to 
hereafter as the Goods). The agreement was to run for a term of 36 months, with payments 
of £299 due each month.
The hire agreement was sold to Mr R by a third party, who Ill refer to as V. Mr R says that 
the hire agreement was packaged as part of a cost neutral advertising arrangement that he 
entered into with V. Under this arrangement, Mr R was to use the Goods to run 
advertisements for local businesses, for which he would receive an income from V. That 
income would cover the cost of the payments that Mr R would have to pay to Grenke under 
the hire agreement. Mr R would also benefit from advertisements for his business being 
displayed by other vendors in the area, on the basis that other local businesses had entered 
into similar arrangements.
A few months later, Mr R stopped receiving the anticipated income from V. Shortly 
thereafter, V entered liquidation.
On Mr Rs behalf, Mr W complained to us about the agreement. In summary, he said:
The advertising arrangement was a scam, orchestrated by V but for which Grenke 
had some responsibility. Mr R had only entered into the hire agreement on the basis 
of Vs assurances that the advertising revenue would offset the monthly payments 
due. The advertising income had ceased, but Mr R was still tied into the hire 
agreement.
Mr R would end up paying a total of £11,000 under the hire agreement, when the 
value of the Goods was only around £500. He didnt have the option to end the 
agreement early.
Mr R wasnt provided with appropriate information before entering into the agreement 
and hadnt been offered a cooling-off period.
Believing the hire agreement to have been mis-sold, Mr W asked that it be cancelled and 
that all payments made be refunded to Mr R.
Grenke says that it didnt do anything wrong. In summary, it says:
Grenke was not connected to V, which had supplied the Goods and had sole 
responsibility for the separate advertising arrangement. V wasnt an agent of 
Grenkes and didnt have the power to make binding representations on its behalf. 
And this had been made clear in the hire agreement itself.
Under a hire agreement, the customer was responsible for the selection of the 
supplier and the equipment. Mr R had applied for the finance after deciding to obtain 
the Goods from V and Grenke had accepted his application.
Grenke set out the term of the agreement and the costs that Mr R would have to pay 
within the contract. And Mr R had signed the contract to accept those terms. These 
didnt include any mention of the cost neutral advertising arrangement, which was a 
separate agreement between V and Mr R. Any concerns about that should be 
redirected to V.
Following discussions with our Service, and while maintaining its position that the complaint 
was unfounded, Grenke offered to discount the outstanding balance under Mr Rs hire 
agreement by 50% (a reduction of just under £3,000) and forego its interest in the Goods. As 
Mr R didnt wish to accept the offer, one of our investigators reviewed the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. In summary, this was 
because:
Grenke couldnt be held responsible for the way in which V had sold or presented the 
hire agreement to Mr R. The terms and conditions of the agreement said there was 
no agency relationship between Grenke and V, and there was no other evidence to 
indicate that V had acted as Grenkes agent in the transaction.
Grenke had provided Mr R with clear information about how the hire agreement 
would work, setting out key details including the monthly payment amount and the 
length of the term. Mr R had signed to confirm his acceptance of the terms. It was 
also clear that the hire agreement was independent of the advertising arrangement. 
There was no mention of the arrangement within the hire agreement and Mr R had 
signed an acceptance certificate that confirmed the arrangement had no bearing on 
his commitments under the hire agreement.
Grenke didnt set the price of the Goods, which was as quoted by V and was 
comparable to the cost of similar commercial display offerings. The cost wasnt so 
unreasonable that it should have caused Grenke any concern in deciding whether to 
agree to finance the contract.
Grenke hadnt offered Mr R a cooling-off period but it hadnt been obliged to offer 
one. 
So, while sympathising with the position Mr R found himself in, our investigator didnt 
recommend that Grenke take any further action in response to the complaint. Grenkes offer 
to settle the matter remained open, but Mr R declined this. On his behalf, Mr W asked that 
an ombudsman review the complaint. In response to our investigators assessment, he said:
Mr Rs business had ceased trading, which was partly the result of the financial strain 
caused by the agreements at issue. 
The cost-neutral deal was part of a systemic fraud, which Grenke was either 
complicit in or ought to have recognised and intervened. Either way, it had unfairly 
profited from customers like Mr R and it wasnt fair to require that he honour the 
contract.There were discrepancies between the figures Grenke was purportedly quoted for 
the Goods by V, and their stated value on both Vs tax invoices and Grenkes 
records.
Our investigation had been unreasonably constrained to a review of the transaction 
between Grenke and Mr R alone, when other financial businesses had been involved 
and a number of other customers had been affected by the same alleged scam. 
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions overall as our investigator and for 
broadly similar reasons. Ill explain why. In doing so, I wont address each and every point 
that Mr W has raised. Id like to assure Mr R and Mr W that Ive carefully considered 
everything theyve said and provided, but Ill focus on the points that I consider most relevant 
to how Ive reached my decision in keeping with the informal nature of our service. 
Mr W says that Grenke knew that the hire agreements it was providing to customers like 
Mr R were being sold as part of a cost-neutral advertising arrangement. He says that the 
arrangement was a scam and that Grenke either knew or ought reasonably to have known 
what was happening and declined to proceed with the transactions. Ive thought about all the 
points that Mr W has made in this respect, but I dont think it was inappropriate or 
unreasonable for Grenke to proceed with the agreement. 
Grenke has acknowledged that it knew of the separate advertising arrangement, but didnt 
know of the cost-neutral basis that V allegedly presented to customers like Mr R. In any 
event, I dont think knowledge of this ought necessarily to have led Grenke to decline Mr Rs 
application. And I dont think it was obliged to conduct the level of investigation that would 
have been needed to determine that the arrangement was either part of a scam or such an 
inherently-flawed business proposition that it should not proceed. 
It has also been suggested that the cost of the Goods ought to have given Grenke cause for 
concern. But while accepting that the price Mr R paid may well have been higher than the 
Goods typical market price, I dont think the price was at such a level as to have reasonably 
led Grenke to intervene. Ultimately, it was a matter for Mr R to decide whether he was happy 
to pay the cost he was quoted for the Goods. Ive noted Mr Ws comments about the costs 
quoted on Vs tax invoice and Grenkes internal systems, but I dont think these suggest an 
error on Grenkes part that impacted Mr R. 
Grenke also took steps to underline the distinction between the advertising arrangement and 
the hire agreement. Mr R signed an acceptance certificate that confirmed, amongst other 
things, that he understood that the advertising arrangement had no bearing on his 
commitments under the hire agreement. He also confirmed his understanding of this on a 
telephone call with Grenke in which it outlined some key information about the hire 
agreement. 
Given the concerns as to how Mr R was sold the hire agreement  and, in particular, how it 
was presented as part of a broader cost-neutral advertising arrangement  Ive considered 
whether Grenke holds any responsibility for this. The hire agreement was sold to Mr R by V. 
V was independent of Grenke; a separate authorised and regulated firm in its own right. To hold Grenke responsible for Vs actions, Id need to find that V acted as Grenkes agent in 
the transaction. But I dont think it did. The terms of the hire agreement explicitly stated that 
the supplier of the Goods (V) was not an agent of Grenke and wasnt authorised to make 
binding representations on its behalf. And Ive not seen anything that leads me to think 
otherwise. 
As Mr Rs agreement is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Ive also thought about 
whether Grenke could be held responsible for Vs actions under Section 56 of the Act. But 
the relevant provisions only apply to debtor-creditor-supplier agreements, whereas the 
agreement at issue here was a hire agreement. So while I can see that Mr R wouldve been 
drawn into the hire agreement on the basis of representations made by V, I dont think 
Grenke can be held responsible for these.
While not responsible for selling the hire agreement to Mr R, Id still expect Grenke to have 
provided him with clear information so that he could make an informed decision as to 
whether to proceed with it. I think it did that. In addition to what Ive said above as to the 
clear distinction between the hire agreement and the advertising arrangement, the hire 
agreement documentation itself set out key details of the agreement in a standardised 
format that complies with the requirements of the Consumer Credit Act. This clearly 
explained that:
The agreement was between Mr R and Grenke for the hire of the Goods (with no 
mention of the advertising arrangement);
Mr R was required to pay 36 monthly payments of £299; and
The agreement was not cancellable.
This information was all presented on one page, which Mr R signed to confirm his 
acceptance.
There was no cooling-off period or a right to cancel the agreement contained within the 
terms of the contract and there wasnt required to be. 
Mr W has also made a number of points about the involvement of a UK franchise of Grenke 
(that Ill refer to as G), that he said had earned substantial commission from its role in 
setting up transactions like Mr Rs. But Mr Rs agreement  the subject of his complaint  is 
with Grenke Leasing Limited. So under our rules, that is the financial business about which 
he is eligible to refer a complaint to us. And in considering that complaint, I have no 
jurisdiction to make findings about the actions of G or any other separate legal entity 
involved in the transaction  even if I thought Mr R had been unfairly impacted. 
As Ive found Grenke didnt treat Mr R unfairly, I dont think any incentivisation for any third 
parties would lead me to a different conclusion on that. Similarly, I can see how Grenke 
wouldve made a profit from entering into its agreement with Mr R  but Ive not seen that it 
did so by treating him unfairly.
I sympathise with the position in which Mr R finds himself and the impact that this matter has 
had on him and his business  particularly as I understand he has now ceased trading and 
given that recourse against V was made impossible following its liquidation. But given all Ive 
said above, there is no basis on which I could reasonably require Grenke to cancel the 
agreement and refund the payments Mr R has made, as Mr W has sought.Grenke has reinstated its offer (to discount the outstanding balance under Mr Rs hire 
agreement by 50% and forego its interest in the Goods). So the offer set out in Grenkes 
letter of 23 March 2021 remains open to Mr R should he wish to accept it.
My final decision
Grenke Leasing Limited has made an offer to settle Mr Rs complaint and for the reasons 
Ive explained above, I dont require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman