DRN-2976345
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as G complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) unfairly 
declined a claim under Gs business protection insurance policy.
Mr E who is a director of G brings the complaint on Gs behalf.
What happened
G holds a business protection insurance policy with Allianz. Mr E made a claim on that policy 
to cover G s losses arising out of the closure of G due to the national Government-imposed 
lockdown in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Allianz declined the claim because it said G didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming 
for. Mr E didnt agree and raised a complaint. He said he thought the wording of the policy, 
specifically the wording for specified illnesses, meant that Gs claim should be covered under 
this policy. Allianz didnt agree so Mr E referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered Gs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that, 
while he sympathised with Mr Es situation, he didnt think there was cover available under 
the policy for the situation G found itself in. Mr E doesnt agree so the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the Government-imposed lockdown had on G. 
But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding Gs complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
G is looking to claim on its business protection insurance policy. There are a range of these 
policies on the market covering a range of different risks; from basic perils like fire and flood 
to providing cover for additional perils  either as part of the policy or as an optional add on. 
When considering whether Allianz acted fairly in declining Gs claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy G took out. As such Ive considered the policy G holds with 
Allianz to determine whether there are any sections that would require Allianz to meet the 
claim. 
Mr E has told us that G closed its doors in March 2020 due to the Government-imposed 
lockdown, which meant it wasnt allowed to remain open. The policy provides cover for 
several perils, including specified illnesses, denial of access and loss of attraction. So Ive 
considered each of these below and whether the policy would provide cover under that 
section for these circumstances.
Specified illnesses
The Government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid-19 pandemic. So, the 
most likely section of the policy that could provide cover would be the extension in relation to 
specified illnesses. That section covers disruption to business activities as a direct result of 
any occurrence of a Specified Illness at the Premises, or any occurrence of a Specified 
Illness within a radius of 25 miles of the Premises.
Specified Illness is defined as:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:

b Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria,
Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps,
Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever,
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow
Fever an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to
them.
Having considered the list of illnesses in the policy, Im not persuaded this section provides 
G with cover in the circumstances as Covid-19 isnt one of the specified illnesses. I realise 
that Covid-19 wasnt something Allianz would have known about when the policy was 
drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for the 
present pandemic. These are usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set 
out and updated on a Government defined list. Whereas Gs policy sets out a specific list of 
the illnesses which are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there 
is nothing which implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses 
which might emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of 
the specific illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as 
covering any illnesses that arent specified in the list set out above.
Damage, Denial of access and loss of attraction
Ive also thought about the denial of access and loss of attraction extensions and I dont 
think the circumstances of this claim meet the definition of those. 
Damage is defined in the business interruption section of the policy as Destruction, damage 
or loss insured under Sections 1, 3, 4 and 7 of this Policy. Nothing in those sections extend 
to damage caused to the business itself by way of a specified illness or disease such as 
Covid-19, or even a government-imposed act.
Mr E has given an alternative definition for Damage, however as Damage is given a specific 
definition in the policy, which is clear, I think the policy is clear that it intends for the word 
Damage to be read as Ive described.
The denial of access extension covers:
Loss as insured by this Section resulting from interruption of or interference with the 
Business in consequence of Damage caused by any Event covered under Section 1 Trade 
Contents to property in the immediate vicinity of the Premises which shall prevent or hinder 
the use of or access to the Premises, whether the Insureds property or the Buildings at the 
Premises be Damaged or not.
It requires there to be Damage as defined above in the locality which prevents or hinders the 
use of or access to the business premises. Because Covid-19 doesnt fall into the definition 
of Damage, I dont think it can reasonably be interpreted as applying to the denial of access 
clause.Ive also considered whether the loss of attraction section of the policy would apply to this 
claim, as Mr E believes it does. The policy states that this section covers:
Any claim resulting from interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of 
accidental loss or destruction of or damageto property within one mile radius of the 
Premises which:
a) prevents or hinders the use of the Premises, or
b) causes a fall in the number of customers attracted to the Premises
Having considered this term, I think its clear that it requires there to be damage to property 
within a mile of the business in order for it to apply. And as G was closed as a result of a 
Government-imposed lockdown, I dont think this section of the policy covers this claim.
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think Allianz acted unfairly by turning down 
Gs claim for cover. I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr E but I hope Ive 
provided him with a thorough explanation of why Gs policy doesnt offer cover in the 
circumstances of Gs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Gs complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman