DRN-3132050
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited wont consider new evidence which
he says supports his claim for total and permanent disability (TPD).
What happened
In 2002 Mr G took out a level term life and critical illness policy with Aviva which included
TPD (I will refer to this policy as the policy in this letter.) In 2014 the policy lapsed due to
the premiums not being paid.
In 2017 Aviva considered a claim from Mr G for TPD but decided not to accept it. It said
Mr G hadnt met the following definition of TPD in the policy:
(e) Total Permanent Disablement (occurring prior to the policy anniversary before attaining
age 60)
Total Permanent Disablement can be defined in either of the following ways:
i. The life assured is unable to follow his/her normal occupation as a result of 
sickness or accident and will, in the reasonable opinion of the Companys medical 
adviser, permanently continue to be unable to follow his/her normal occupation, 
taking into account current medical knowledge and technology.
ii. The life assured is unable to independently perform three or more Activities of 
Daily Living as a result of sickness or accident and will, in the reasonable opinion of 
the Companys medical adviser, permanently continue to be unable to independently
perform three or more Activities of Daily Living, taking into account current
medical knowledge and technology.
The definition applied to your Policy will depend upon your occupation, and is
specified in the Schedule.
Mr G was unhappy that Aviva hadnt accepted his claim for TPD and made his first complaint
to this service. In March 2019 an Ombudsman at this service issued a final decision which
said Aviva hadnt unfairly declined Mr Gs TPD claim. In summary, this was because:
- The policy ended in 2014.
- Mr Gs claim had to be assessed on the basis of the medical evidence available to 
Aviva in 2014. Dr Ss report does mention Mr Gs ASD, but its dated 2017, which 
means it wasnt available to Aviva in 2014. 
- For a claim to be paid, the policy required Mr G to be totally and permanently 
unable to do his normal occupation in 2014. In 2014, there was no evidence to show 
that Mr G was permanently unable to follow his normal occupation.
In March 2020 Mr G received a final decision from another dispute resolution Ombudsman
(who for ease Ill refer to as A). As determination refers to Mr G using another initial but, for 
consistency, Ill continue to refer to Mr G as Mr G. In As determination, As Ombudsman 
said:
[Mr G] is of the view that his pension should be payable with effect from August
2010.... He has argued that [Dr S] concluded he was permanently incapable of
discharging his former duties because he had been diagnosed with ASD. [Mr G]
points out that this is a life-long condition and would have been present in 2010. I
acknowledge that this would be the case. However, [Mr G]s ASD was not the only
reason [Dr S] gave for concluding that he was permanently incapable of discharging
his former duties. For example, [Dr S] mentioned [Mr G]s diabetic neuropathy and
depressive disorder. [Dr S]'s view was that [Mr G]s incapacity was derived from a
combination of conditions and that it became permanent with effect from April 2017.
As determination went on to find that [Mr G]s deferred pension is payable from April 2017.
Mr G made a second complaint to this service. Mr G said that As Ombudsman accepted
that Mr Gs ASD would have been present in 2010. Mr G said that this was new evidence,
and that Aviva should accept his claim based on this new evidence. 
Aviva considered the information provided by Mr G. But it didnt think that As comments
were new evidence. Aviva said that the comments made by A were based upon a medical
report by Dr S which had already been considered by Aviva and by this service.
Our investigator agreed with Mr G that As acceptance that Mr Gs ASD would have been
present in 2010 was new evidence. However, our investigator didnt think that Mr Gs
complaint should be upheld. He said that the new evidence Mr G had provided from A didnt
persuade him that Mr G met Avivas definition for TPD before his policy expired in 2014.
Mr G disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He says he now qualifies for an
award based on the own occupation TPD definition in his policy because A has said his ASD
applies retrospectively and did exist in 2010. And because this service hasnt accepted this
new evidence, Mr G says that he has been discriminated against under the Equality Act
2010. Mr G added that there is a Memorandum of Understanding between this service and
A, and that he shouldnt be caught in the middle of the two services when they dont agree. 
I issued a provisional decision on 24 September 2021 explaining why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. I have attached my provisional decision below, at the end of this 
final decision. This is for ease of reference, because I refer to my provisional decision here 
and later on in this final decision. Overall, I didnt think Mr Gs new evidence satisfied me he 
met the TPD definition in his policy before it expired in 2014. 
Aviva accepted my provisional decision. Mr G didnt accept my provisional decision. He said 
I failed to mention a judicial decision between him and this service in relation to his previous 
complaint and that the notes in that judgement are important in showing he did meet the 
TPD definition before his policy expired. Mr G mentioned correspondence between Aviva 
and himself which mentioned medical evidence and his conditions and why this evidence 
also showed he met the policy definition. 
Mr G added that Avivas failure to get the opinion of its company medical advisor on the new 
evidence he supplied to it in 2020 meant he had been discriminated against under the 
Equality Act 2010 and Autism Act 2009. He said Aviva hadnt respected his human rights 
under Avivas own Human rights and Modern Slavery Act statement and that he hadnt been 
treated fairly.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know Mr G will be very disappointed with this, but I 
hope he understands why Ive reached this decision.
I dont intend to repeat my findings as per my provisional decision here, as Ive attached 
them below. But Ill address the points Mr G has raised in reply.
Mr G has said I didnt mention in my provisional decision a judicial decision at the high court 
he attended in 2019 in relation to his previous complaint. He says the notes in that 
judgement are important and show that he was suffering a total and permanent disability 
before his policy expired in 2014. He has then mentioned an occupational report and letters 
Aviva sent to him in 2017 which mention his conditions. And a further letter he sent to Aviva 
in April 2019 which provided evidence from a psychologist who assessed him in 2013  a 
year before his policy expired. Mr G added that this service and Aviva failed to properly 
recognise the own occupation definition of TPD previously and mentioned the issues he had 
with his bank at the time his premiums werent paid and his policy expired. 
Mr G has said that he was suffering from conditions as far back as 2009 which was 
mentioned by the reviewing judge. Im not disputing that Mr G was ill when the policy was 
active or that he had lost his job. Under the heading what happened in my provisional 
decision, I was summarising the key events that led to Mr Gs second complaint to this 
service. I didnt mention the previous judgement from Mr Gs judicial review because Im not 
able to revisit the merits of that determination here. 
As I explained to Mr G in my provisional decision, my role here is to assess whether the new 
evidence he has brought to this service from A supports his complaint that he was 
permanently and totally disabled in line with Avivas policy definition before his policy lapsed 
in 2014. Ive previously explained in my provisional decision that it isnt my role to revisit the 
merits of the complaint he previously brought to this service and which was decided by 
another Ombudsman. So, here, Im not going to comment any further on the previous 
complaint points Mr G brought to this service and in his response to my provisional decision. 
Mr G has said in his response to my provisional decision that his medical conditions, the 
occupational health report and the report by a psychologist in 2013 should be considered 
alongside the new evidence from Dr S because this was mentioned by A. But I dont agree 
because his medical conditions and previous reports have already been considered by Aviva 
and this service. And I dont agree that the evidence provided by Mr G indicates that As 
decision supports his claim for total and permanent disability in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy with Aviva before it expired in 2014.
Avivas actions in 2020. 
Mr G has asked whether Aviva sent the new information he had provided in early 2020 to its 
company medical advisor to be assessed. Aviva has said it didnt accept a claim from Mr G 
in 2020 because As determination referenced a medical report completed by one of Mr Gs 
doctors which had already been considered as part of his previous complaint. 
Mr G has said he doesnt think it should be up to him to show that he has met Avivas 
definition. He said that Aviva not providing his evidence to its company medical advisor 
means that his claim wasnt accepted. Mr G added that he was being discriminated against 
under the Autism Act 2009, the Equality Act 2010 and that Aviva should respect his human 
rights under its own Human Rights and Modern Slavery Act statement to have his claim fairly 
assessed. Id like to confirm to Mr G that when a consumer makes a claim, they are expected to 
provide evidence to show that they do meet the definition of the section of the policy they are 
trying to claim under. It would then be up to the insurer to assess this information and decide 
if more evidence is needed before deciding whether the evidence meets the definition within 
its policy. Here, Aviva has said that the evidence Mr G sent to it in 2020 was previously seen 
and assessed by a claims assessor. And it was decided that the evidence from A wasnt 
enough for Aviva to accept a claim for TPD before Mr Gs policy lapsed in 2014. And I agree 
with Avivas claims assessor here. So, I dont agree that Aviva not passing the evidence to 
the companys medical assessor means Mr G was treated unfairly. 
Ive considered all the relevant legislation and Acts Mr G has mentioned when reviewing this 
aspect of the complaint. Ive noted Mr G is protected by the Autism Act due to his ASD. But I 
dont agree this means Aviva shouldve accepted or passed his claim to the company 
medical advisor here. The purpose of the Autism Act 2009 was to increase awareness of the 
condition and improve the care provided by local health and local councils across the 
country for people with Autism. 
And for me to be satisfied Mr G was discriminated against under the Equality Act 2010 and 
the statements hes mentioned, Id need to see that he was treated differently or less fairly 
than other customers due to his protected characteristic. I can understand why he feels this 
way but having looked at all the evidence and bearing in mind what Ive explained above and 
in my provisional decision, I dont think Aviva has done so. Nor do I think Aviva has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
Here, Im satisfied Aviva reviewed the information Mr G provided but felt he didnt meet the 
necessary criteria to accept a claim. Aviva has said this decision was made by one of its 
claims assessors. And this is the same process Aviva will follow for all its customers when it 
first considers a claim for TPD. If Aviva doesnt feel Mr G met the policy criteria based upon 
the evidence he provided, I dont think its unreasonable for it to not accept a claim and to 
not request any further medical evidence or expert opinion. And because this is a standard 
process for Aviva to take, I dont believe it has treated Mr G unfairly here. 
So, Im not going to ask Aviva to take any further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im afraid I dont intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I know this will be very 
disappointing news for Mr G. I want to assure him that I didnt take this decision lightly. I 
understand this is a difficult time for him. While I dont want to add to his distress, I cant say 
Aviva has treated him unfairly. Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Firstly, Id like to make it clear that my role here is only to consider the new evidence that A 
accepted that Mr Gs ASD would have been present in 2010, and whether that evidence 
means that, in 2014, Mr G would have met the policy definition of TPD. Im not revisiting 
Mr Gs previous complaint to our service.  
Mr G believes this service has discriminated against him under the Equality Act 2010 
because the investigator didnt uphold his complaint. This service will make reasonable 
adjustments to our processes to ensure that the parties have a fair opportunity to put their 
case. We can also change the way we communicate with parties so that we meet their 
needs.  But I cant look favourably on the evidence provided by Mr G because of his 
personal circumstances. My role here is to consider the merits of his complaint against Aviva 
independently and impartially. In doing so, I need to weigh up and take into account the 
evidence both sides have provided as well as the relevant law, rules and regulations.
The new evidence
I should explain that in considering this complaint I have to consider whether the new 
evidence that Mr G has supplied satisfies me  on balance  that Mr G met Avivas TPD 
definition before the policy expired in 2014. 
Mr Gs policy says that Mr G will meet the TPD definition if he is:
unable to follow his normal occupation as a result of sickness or accident and will, in 
the reasonable opinion of the Companys medical adviser, permanently continue to 
be unable to follow his normal occupation, taking into account current medical 
knowledge and technology.
And because Mr Gs policy expired in 2014, Mr G needs to show that he met that definition 
in 2014 or before, whilst the policy was still active. In other words, in order to meet the policy 
definition of TPD, Mr G must fulfil three criteria:
1.A sickness or an accident
2. Which means that hes permanently unable to follow his normal occupation, in 
the reasonable opinion of the Companys medical adviser.
3. And these two factors must have existed in 2014 or before.
In his submission to this service, Mr G has said his ASD is a life-long condition and was 
present in 2010. Mr G relies on As comment that A felt that Mr Gs ASD was a life-long 
condition which was present in 2010. I accept that A made this comment in his 
determination, and I accept that this comment is new evidence. However, As determination was about Mr Gs complaint about his pension. A didnt make any comment at all on whether 
Mr Gs health was such that he met Avivas definition of TPD in or before 2014.
Nevertheless, I will consider whether As comment helps Mr G to meet the TPD definition. 
The TPD definition requires the reasonable opinion of a medical professional. But A isnt a 
medical professional, and A isnt offering the reasonable opinion of a medical professional 
on whether Mr G met the TPD definition in Mr Gs policy. So, even though A said that he 
feels that Mr Gs ASD would have been present in 2010, A is not a medical professional and 
As comment doesnt help Mr G to meet the TPD definition. 
I note A did refer to a medical report completed by a medical professional, Dr S, and As 
determination found that, There was no reason why [Mr Gs employer] should not have 
accepted [Dr Ss] advice. Dr Ss medical report is not new evidence and was considered by 
Aviva and by this service when responding to Mr Gs first complaint. For completeness, I 
summarise the findings of Dr Ss report here: Dr S said that Mr G had been able to perform 
his role in the past, despite his [ASD], and that Mr G first became permanently incapable of 
performing his role with effect from 2017, due to a combination of conditions, in addition to 
ASD.
In other words, even if As comments were sufficient to establish that Mr Gs ASD was 
present before the policy expired in 2014, that would not enable Mr G to meet the TPD 
definition, because Dr Ss medical opinion is that i) Mr Gs ASD did not prevent Mr G from 
fulfilling his role; and ii) Mr G only became permanently incapable of performing his role with 
effect from 2017, which is three years after Mr Gs policy expired. 
Therefore, I accept that As comments are new evidence. But As comments dont help Mr G 
to fulfil the policy definition of TPD. A has not commented on whether or not Mr Gs disability 
was such that he met Avivas definition of TPD in or before 2014. So, after carefully 
considering As determination, Im not satisfied it shows that Mr G  on balance  was 
permanently unable to follow his normal occupation when his policy was active. 
So, Im not going to ask Aviva to accept Mr Gs claim here. 
Mr Gs other comments
Mr G has said there is a Memorandum of Understanding between this service and A. And he 
shouldnt be caught in the middle if the two services dont agree with each other. I can 
understand why Mr G feels he is caught in the middle. I hope it will be helpful if I explain why 
we have the Memorandum of Understanding between A and this service.
The Memorandum of Understanding does not require me to follow As determinations, and it 
does not require A to follow the decisions of this service. Instead, the Memorandum of 
Understanding exists because theres some jurisdictional overlap between the two services. 
This means that there are some complaints where a complaint about one product could be 
dealt with by both A and by this service. In order to avoid confusion, the Memorandum of 
Understanding sets out which service will deal with those complaints. 
Mr G made complaints about two different products. Both complaints relate to Mr Gs ability 
to work. His complaints to this service were about his Aviva insurance policy, but his 
complaint to A was about his pension.  
This means that As comments and As determination relate to Mr Gs pension, not his Aviva 
insurance policy. And my comments and my decision relate to Mr Gs Aviva insurance 
policy, not his pension. My role is to reach an independent, impartial decision based on 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Gs complaint about his Aviva insurance policy. For the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont agree that As comment helps 
Mr G to meet the TPD definition in the policy, and the Memorandum of Understanding 
doesnt change my decision.  
Mr G said he can make a claim under his old Aviva policy under the Limitation Act 1980 and 
the Enterprise Act 2016 gives policyholders a legal right to enforce prompt payment of 
insurance claims. I understand why Mr G has cited these two acts. But I dont think either of 
these apply here because Aviva said it didnt consider As evidence to be new and this 
service has considered his complaint. And for the reasons Ive given above, I dont agree 
this complaint should be upheld. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given, my provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this 
complaint.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman