DRN-1420180
 
The complaint
Ms B says Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold her a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her credit card repayments.
What happened
Ms B applied for a credit card over the internet in 2003. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy to cover her credit card payments. The policy cost £0.74 per £100 of the balance on 
Ms Bs credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months per claim if Ms B was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld because he thought Ms B 
wouldve understood she had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit. 
Ms B disagrees. She says she didnt know she had PPI and would never agree to it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
The PPI was applied for online when Ms B applied for a credit card. Canada Square have 
given us a copy of the screen shots of the type of application form Ms B wouldve seen and 
completed when she applied for her credit card. 
I can see that theres a separate section on the application form that deals with PPI. Within 
this section it briefly explains what the cost of PPI is along with what it protects against. 
Directly under this it gives the option to either select:
Yes, I want to protect my repayments; 
or 
No, I understand it is my responsibility to keep up my repayments should I fall ill or 
lose my job. 
Canada Square say Ms B wouldnt have been able to continue with the application without 
selecting one of these options. I think because Ms B had PPI its likely she selected to take 
PPI. If Ms B didnt want to take out PPI she couldve selected not to take the cover. So I 
think its likely Ms B understood she had a choice in taking out the PPI and chose to take it 
because she wanted the cover. If Ms B hadnt wanted the cover or agreed to take it I think 
she wouldve questioned why it was showing up on her credit card statements.
Because the PPI was taken out over the internet I dont think Canada Square advised Ms B 
to take PPI. What this means is that Canada Square didnt recommend PPI to Ms B, they 
just gave her information about PPI and it was up to her to decide if the cover was suitable. 
This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she 
could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
Canada Square say that enough information wouldve been given to allow Ms B to make an 
informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. I can see the cost of the policy is 
shown on the application form. But I cant say whether all the proper information needed was 
given. That being said even if Canada Square did give all the information Ms B needed to 
make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy 
because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms 
and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
Ms B says she was entitled to sick pay and had savings which wouldve helped her 
make her repayments if she couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any 
work benefits and savings and for potentially longer. So I cant see how knowing this 
information wouldve put her off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Ms B and she could cancel 
the policy if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Ms B on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms B.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint against Canada Square 
Operations Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman