DRN-4151581
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society wont locate and release a charge held by 
them against his property in regard to an old debt. 
What happened
Mr W discovered there was a charge registered against his property by Nationwide. Mr W 
contacted Nationwide who referred him to a third-party debt recovery company (DRC) to 
whom the debt had been sold. Mr W contacted the DRC but was referred by them back to 
Nationwide. Unhappy with the lack of progress, Mr W raised a complaint with Nationwide. 
Nationwide responded to Mr W and explained that once a debt has been sold  as this debt 
had been  it was removed entirely from Nationwide, which meant Nationwide werent able 
to assist Mr W in the manner as he would like. Mr W wasnt satisfied with Nationwides 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During their review, Nationwide made 
further enquiries about the charge and discovered that it related to a credit card debt which 
had an outstanding balance of £2,637.25. Our investigator passed this information to Mr W 
with a telephone number to call Nationwide to arrange to pay the outstanding amount  after 
which the process to remove the charge could begin. 
However, our investigator felt that Nationwide could and reasonably should have found and 
provided the information about the charge to Mr W sooner. So, they recommended that this 
complaint be upheld in Mr Ws favour on that basis and that Nationwide should make a 
payment of £150 to Mr W as compensation for any upset and inconvenience the late 
provision of the information to him may have caused. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator and felt 
that Nationwide should be instructed to provide a written settlement figure to enable him to 
clear the charge and pay a larger amount of compensation to him. So, the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Nationwide have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
During our investigators review, information about the charge on Mr Ws property was 
located by Nationwide and forwarded to Mr W. This included that the charge was put in 
place in 2010 in relation to a credit card debt and that the outstanding balance of that debt 
was £2,637.25.
Mr W has said that he wants Nationwide to provide a written settlement figure to him. But the 
amount that Mr W needs to pay to have the charge removed - £2,637.25  has already been 
provided by Nationwide via our investigator to Mr W. 
If Mr Ws request is that Nationwide should be instructed to allow him to pay less than the 
currently outstanding amount, I can confirm that this isnt an instruction that Id consider 
giving to Nationwide. This is because I feel that Nationwide should fairly be entitled to want 
full payment of the debt from Mr W, and therefore that any arrangement to the contrary 
should be at the discretion of Nationwide and something that Mr W would need to request 
from Nationwide directly.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Mr W has been given all the information about the charge 
necessary for him to be able to repay the debt the charge was raised against to enable the 
charge to be removed. I therefore refer Mr W to the view of this complaint put forwards by 
our investigator for full information about the charge and the information he needs to provide 
to Nationwide to pay the related outstanding debt.
However, Im in agreement with our investigator that Nationwide could and reasonably 
should have conducted the further enquiries about the charge and the outstanding debt 
sooner that they did, and that Mr W has incurred a degree of worry and inconvenience that 
he reasonably shouldnt have incurred as a result. And I also agree that Nationwide should 
fairly compensate Mr W for that worry and inconvenience. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But the £150 compensation recommended by 
our investigator feels fair to me here, given the full circumstances of this complaint. These 
include that I feel Nationwide could have located the information about the charge sooner, as 
explained, but also that the charge relates to a debt incurred historically by Mr W, which I 
feel he also bears some responsibility for not keeping track of and which, given the length of 
time Mr W hasnt addressed the debt, I feel its reasonable for Nationwide to have had 
difficulty locating. And in consideration of these points, I feel that £150 is a fair amount.
Finally, Im aware Mr W has contacted Nationwide to repay this debt and is frustrated with 
the lack of progress hes made. However, my remit here is focussed on Mr Ws complaint 
about locating and understanding the charge held against his property, and so any 
dissatisfaction Mr W may have about his attempts to pay the now located charge would need 
to be raised by Mr W with Nationwide as a new complaint.
All of which means that while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ws favour, Ill only be 
doing so to instruct Nationwide to pay the £150 compensation for the late provision of 
information about the charge to him. I hope Mr W will understand, given what Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
Putting things right
Nationwide must make a payment of £150 to Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman