DRN-2755763
The complaint
Mr W complains that Valour Finance Limited (trading as Savvy.co.uk) didnt do enough 
checks before agreeing to lend to him and so the lending was irresponsible.
What happened
Mr W borrowed £1,200 from Savvy on 26 May 2020. The loan was due to be repaid by 12 
monthly instalments of £200.00 with the last payment due on 25 May 2021.
Mr W says Savvy didnt check his bank statements when he applied for the loan. He says 
they showed multiple other loans and a gambling problem and that Savvy should have seen 
that the figures he provided were inconsistent with his credit record. Mr W says he couldnt 
afford the repayments and, at the time of the lending, hed suffered a recent relationship 
break-up and was drinking heavily. He adds that it wasnt explained to him that hed have to 
pay off the full terms interest, even if he repaid the loan early.
Savvy says it conducted a credit check and asked Mr W about his income and expenditure. 
It says it validated Mr Ws income and there was nothing of concern on his credit file. Savvy 
says its affordability checks showed the repayments were affordable to Mr W.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Savvy carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available information to 
indicate Mr W was struggling to manage his money.
Mr W responded to say that he did not agree with the adjudicators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish 
whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
When Mr W applied for his loan, I can see Savvy asked him about his income and 
expenditure and checked his credit file. I have seen the results of Savvys credit check and it 
shows:
Mr W had two loans that were up to date;
He had five credit cards, all of which were within their limits;
There were a further two active mail order accounts;
Four defaulted accounts;
oThree were from 12 months ago or earlier;
oOne was from January 2020;
oAll four accounts are marked as settled.I cant see that there was anything in Mr Ws credit file that should have indicated to Savvy 
that he was in current financial difficulties  there were no very recent defaults and the 
historical ones had all been settled.
Im satisfied Savvys remaining checks were proportionate to the circumstances of the loan  
it was Mr Ws first loan, the monthly repayments were only around 8% of his income and his 
disposable income, including existing credit commitments, indicated the repayments were 
sustainably affordable. So, although I accept what Mr W says about what his bank 
statements would have shown, I cant conclude that Savvy was required to carry out that 
level of checks.
Ive also considered what Mr W said about having to pay the full terms interest, even if the 
loan was repaid early. I dont find that to be the case and Im satisfied interest was applied 
daily and the terms for early settlement were outlined on the loan agreement.
So, in summary, I cant conclude there was anything in the available information to show 
Mr W was struggling to manage his money, or that Savvy should have carried out further 
checks. I consider the checks were proportionate to the circumstances of the lending and I 
find it was reasonable for Savvy to find the loan was affordable and that it made a fair 
lending decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman