DRN-3426702
The complaint
Mrs M complains about problems she experienced when trying to register for a cashback 
reward scheme offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard.  
Mrs M is represented in making this complaint by her son. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
any submissions and comments he has made as being made by Mrs M herself.
What happened
Barclaycard introduced a rewards scheme for its credit card customers. But Mrs M incurred 
problems when trying to register for the scheme. So, she complained to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard acknowledged that some of its customers had encountered problems registering 
for the service. It apologised to Mrs M for the inconvenience caused and explained that the 
rewards scheme was hosted by a third-party with whom it was working with to resolve the 
technical issues. 
Unhappy with the response Mrs M referred the complaint to this service. She said while 
disappointed to learn of the system issues, her main concern was that Barclaycard hadnt 
treated all the affected customers the same. She said she was aware that other customers 
who had encountered similar problems had been paid compensation. And, as Barclaycard 
hadnt offered her compensation, it had treated her unfairly.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. But he thought Barclaycards apology 
was sufficient. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said that, by offering compensation to others, Barclaycard had set a 
legal precedent regarding the outcome of complaints relating to this issue. The investigator 
considered this, but he didnt think this altered the outcome he had reached. He explained 
that our service is an alternative to the courts, and that we consider what is a fair and 
reasonable outcome based on the individual merits of each case.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard hasnt disputed that Mrs M was initially unable to register for the new rewards 
system when it was first introduced. It has explained that this was due to technical problems 
with the third-party rewards scheme host. But Mrs M would like Barclaycard to pay her 
compensation for the inconvenience caused  particularly, as she is aware that other 
impacted customers received a compensation payment. So, my role here is to consider if 
Mrs M has suffered any material inconvenience - because of what went wrong, which would 
warrant a compensation award. 
Firstly, Ive thought about what Mrs M has said about Barclaycard setting a legal precedent 
when it offered compensation to other customers in the same situation as her. But as the 
investigator has explained, this service is an alternative to the courts. And we decide 
complaints based on what we consider to be a fair and reasonable when taking into account 
the individual circumstances of each case. 
Having taken that approach here, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
I accept that Barclaycard may have paid compensation elsewhere for what might, at face 
value, be the same circumstances  the delayed roll out of a new rewards scheme. In this 
case, Barclaycard explained the reasons behind the problems Mrs M had encountered and 
apologised for the inconvenience this caused. In doing so, Im satisfied it treated Mrs M 
fairly. I say this because Ive not seen enough to persuade me that Mrs M was personally 
materially inconvenienced by what happened to the extent that a compensation payment is 
due. 
I understand that when the problems arose Mrs M tried to contact Barclaycard via its SMS 
service and was unsuccessful. Barclaycard has explained this service wasnt available at the 
time as it was undergoing maintenance. 
But I dont think its unusual for a business electronic services to be temporarily unavailable 
for general updates and maintenance. And, as the investigator has explained, there were 
other reasonable communication methods available to Mrs M if she needed to discuss the 
problems she had encountered with Barclaycard. So, I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly 
here.  
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M - in the specific circumstances of this complaint, 
Im satisfied that Barclaycards apology for the problems Mrs M encountered is enough. So, I 
wont be asking Barclaycard to take any further action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman