DRN-3405219
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Wellington Court Financial Services Limited gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision which set out the background to this complaint and my 
provisional findings. This forms part of this decision and is set out below:
Mr G says that he searched google about taking his pension benefits, as he knew he could do this at 
age 55. He found a website following this search and filled in a form with his details. He was then 
contacted by a person called Max. This person took information about Mr G and his pension. Mr G 
says he was told by Max that he could get 45% of his pension as a lump sum but to do this he would 
need to transfer his pension twice. Mr G says he was told this was perfectly legal and that an adviser 
from Wellington Court would be in touch.
The adviser from Wellington Court called Mr G and following that a number of appointments in person 
also took place.
Wellington Court recorded Mr Gs details in an undated fact find document. According to the records, 
Mr G had an intended retirement age of 67, was employed, had limited financial knowledge, and had 
a risk attitude of 7/8 from a scale of 1 to 10.
Wellington Court wrote to the scheme administrators of Mr Gs OPS requesting that a cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) be sent to Mr G.
Wellington Court produced a transfer analysis report. The CETV was for
£50,404. The report stated that for Mr G to have the same benefits on retirement the CETV would 
have to grow by 13.1% each year until Mr Gs retirement age of 67. At the time Mr G was 54. A file 
note at the time confirmed that Mr G had around £6,500 of debt which he was trying to repay, and that 
he had left his employers scheme in March 2017 as he could not afford to meet the employee 
contributions.
Wellington Court summarised their advice in a suitability report. The recommendation was to transfer 
the scheme benefits to a Hubwise SIPP and for a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM) to manage the 
funds. The paperwork confirms an upfront charge of 4% with 1% ongoing fees. The DFMs fee was 
1.2% per year and the Hubwise SIPP fee was £114 per year. The report noted that Mr G may be 
better off transferring your benefits, mainly for the flexible access to benefits and the potential death 
benefits in retirement that may be available to your children.
The report also noted that you [Mr G] advise me that you have other pension funds of around 
£47,000 which are currently going through Court action
Wellington Court sent Mr G a prefilled Hubwise SIPP application form on 16 September 2017, and the 
application was submitted on 22 September 2017. The funds were transferred on 20 November 2017.
Mr G then signed a transfer out form on 12 February 2018 and £48,143 was transferred out of the 
SIPP on 21 February 2018. It was stated on the form that the decision to transfer out is my own and I 
have taken no advice on the transfer and its suitability from my adviser.
The funds were transferred to an unrelated (to Mr G) metal workers retirement scheme, this was a 
Small Self Administered Scheme (SSAS). The funds were invested into loan notes in a company 
which appears to be based in Gibraltar.
Wellington Court wrote to Mr G on 1 March 2018 about the transfer, saying:
I am writing regarding your Hubwise SIPP that was finalised in the first few days of December 2017, 
because I am concerned that in the very short time your new pension has been established, you have 
now transferred your funds out of this arrangement. My initial worry, therefore, is that you may have 
been persuaded to transfer your pension funds into a non-regulated investment arrangement or an 
outright scam, and I am surprised and sorry that you did not wish to discuss any thoughts with me first 
before taking this further action.
Mr G sent a text message to the Wellington Court adviser in March 2018. The text provided the two 
contact numbers for two individuals called Paul and Max, and another, Adam from a different firm. Mr 
G said in his text message these were the individuals who had dealt with the transfer.
In response to this the adviser at Wellington Court said:
To give you some background information Max and Paul no longer work together and havent done 
since before the end of 2017. I agreed to meet with you last year to discuss your pension options and 
provide you with regulated advice. However, I suspected (and this is corroborated by what you said to 
me) that once your pension through the Hubwise SIPP had been sorted out, without my knowledge, 
Paul was going back to some clients (including you) and suggesting a further change of pension 
arrangement. For this reason, both Max and I refused to have anything further to do with him and this 
was the reason that I wrote to you on 1st March 2018 expressing my concerns.
It seems Mr G received £9,000 but the remainder of his pension fund was lost. 
Our investigator looked into matters and upheld the complaint. But he didnt think Wellington Court 
should be held responsible for the loss relating to the transfer to the SSAS.
Mr Gs representatives disagreed and argued there was no break in causation. And had Wellington 
Court given suitable advice, Mr G wouldnt have suffered these losses.
Wellington Court responded to say that the advice wasnt unsuitable, Mr G needed money to pay off 
his debts. And he had been given the relevant warnings about the risk involved but had decided to 
transfer anyway. It says that Mr G needs to take responsibility for his choices.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Was the advice to transfer out of the OPS suitable?
Financial viability
The starting assumption when advising on a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. 
Wellington Court should have only considered a transfer if they could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Gs best interest (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, 
Im not satisfied it was. Ill explain why.
The Financial Ombudsman Service maintains records, for the purpose of reviewing pension transfers, 
of what rates of return are realistic from stock markets or Discount Rates. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the 
advice was given in this case.The documents from the time of advice show that Mr G was looking to retire at age 67 if possible. 
Wellington Courts transfer analysis showed that the average investment return required in the new 
pension to match the OPS benefits was 13.3% retiring at age 56, or 7.2% retiring at age 67, both with 
tax-free cash taken.
The most up to date discount rate that would apply to Mr G is 3.8% per year  far below the critical 
yield. This suggests it was highly unlikely that Mr G would be better off in financial terms, transferring. 
Where a pension transfer is recommended it should be clearly and unambiguously in the client's 
interests. Therefore, given the critical yields involved here, to still transfer there would need to be an 
extremely good reason to do so.
Im satisfied that by transferring his pension Mr G was unlikely to improve his benefits. Instead there 
was a big risk he would be worse off in retirement. So based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in 
Mr Gs best interest. Furthermore, the investment advice given and product selected was unsuitable 
for Mr Gs needs. Mr G had a small fund, and the recommended investment product came with 
considerable costs. Mr G was also paying a DFM which is usually an avenue prescribed to 
experienced investors with large funds, hoping for market beating returns that are required to offset 
the cost of the DFM. These extra costs will have been reflected in the critical yield.
Financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower or the same benefits.
Wellington Courts justification for the transfer
Wellington Court argue that:
Mr G was in debt and was uncomfortable with this
Transferring gave him the ability to clear this debt and provided him with flexibility
The death benefits on transfer were improved
It was difficult to balance his immediate needs against his longer-term requirements
It provided a service, but Mr G chose to accept its recommendation and should be 
responsible for his choices.
But I dont think these arguments justify the advice to transfer. Mr G doesnt appear to be financially 
astute; he wasnt good at managing his finances. He did have debt but there were no other 
alternatives put forward for managing this debt.  The OPS was the only guaranteed income (aside 
from state pension) that hed have in retirement, it shouldve been a priority to protect this. His OPS 
was extremely valuable to him when you consider his financial position. Mr G might have wanted to 
take money out of his pension, but I dont think he had a good understanding of the potential 
consequences of doing so. Suitable advice wouldve been to make it clear to Mr G that he should 
leave his benefits in the OPS as it would form the cornerstone of his retirement provision. And that his 
short-term needs didnt outweigh the benefits of retaining his guaranteed OPS benefits.
Wellington Court also said a transfer gave Mr G flexibility that he didnt have within his OPS. But as 
Ive noted above, I dont think this was a benefit to Mr G given his difficulty in managing his finances 
and likelihood of making poor financial decisions based on a lack of understanding. His benefits 
remaining within the OPS wouldve provided security against this. 
Mr G had an unmarried partner who wouldnt benefit from the occupational pension schemes 
spouses pension in the event of his death. But pension provision is intended to provide for an 
individuals retirement rather than a desire to leave a lump sum for family. The financial wellbeing of a 
partner and children would inevitably have been a priority for Mr G but the recommendation needed to 
be given in the context of  primarily - Mr Gs best interests in terms of his retirement needs. And 
given the critical yields here and Mr Gs circumstances (nothing to suggest death benefits were a 
priority) I dont think the possibility of more suitable benefits on death shouldve outweighed the need 
for income in retirement.
Wellington Court was meant to be the expert, giving expert advice that Mr G paid it to provide. It is not 
a defence to say it was Mr Gs decision and therefore it is not responsible. Mr G was not treated as an insistent client. And the adviser recommended that he transfer his benefits and put forward a number 
of reasons to say why Mr G might be better off. Mr G was reliant on the advice he was given by 
Wellington Court and so it is liable for any losses due to its unsuitable advice.
Ive fully taken into account that Mr G likely was keen to transfer out as he was worried about his debt 
and his finances were tight. However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the 
options for Mr G. He should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explain what 
he was giving up in the OPS scheme. For the reasons given above I think this advice should have 
been not to transfer out. On balance I think Mr G would have listened to the adviser and followed their 
advice if they provided the proper and clear reasons why he was better off keeping his OPS benefits.
I think the advice given was wholly unsuitable and therefore Wellington Court needs to redress the 
situation. But I also need to decide whether Wellington Court are responsible for Mr Gs losses 
suffered after transferring out of the SIPP and into the SSAS.
Is Wellington Court responsible for Mr Gs subsequent losses?
Ive considered this point very carefully and having done so I dont agree with the investigators view 
that Wellington Court is only responsible for losses up to the point of the transfer out of the SIPP and 
into the SSAS.
I think a responsible firm carrying out its due diligence and its requirements under the FCA's Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS) would have advised Mr G against the transfer and highlighted the 
risks he was undertaking taking instructions from unregulated introducers.
Mr Gs testimony, which Ive find to be convincing, was that on the initial contact the introducer told 
him he could receive 45% of his fund as tax free cash. But this would require two transfers. It appears 
Wellington Court had a relationship with these unregulated introducers and the adviser has admitted 
as much. I cant be sure that Wellington Court knew the introducer would take the course of action 
they did and essentially scam Mr G out of his pension. The evidence we have suggests it didnt. But in 
any event had it undertaken its responsibility under COBS, given suitable advice and got to know its 
client sufficiently, I dont think Mr G wouldve suffered the losses he has.
Had the adviser questioned Mr Gs motives for transfer and why hed reached out for Wellington Court 
for advice, I think its likely he wouldve discovered what Mr G had been told by the introducer. The 
adviser wouldve or shouldve known then that what Mr G was told about receiving 45% of his fund as 
tax-free cash, couldnt legitimately be achieved by two transfers. And a reputable adviser would have 
serious concerns about why a transfer to a SIPP was required to facilitate another transfer. 
I think its clear the unregulated introducers were the puppet masters of a plan to move Mr Gs money 
from the highly regulated and secure OPS environment and into a scheme where Mr Gs money could 
be taken from him. The scheme Mr G ended up in was supposedly a scheme for metal workers  
which bears no relation to Mr G. The role Wellington Court seemingly played was to provide a 
legitimate (it was regulated to give pension advice) way to get Mr Gs money out of his OPS. Without 
a regulated financial adviser, this likely couldnt be done. How much of this Wellington Court was 
aware of, as I said, is up for debate but it did have a relationship with these unregulated introducers. 
With this knowledge the adviser ought to have warned Mr G that what he had been told wasnt correct 
and that it sounded like a scam. The adviser also knew that Mr G had previously been scammed out 
of another pension. And had Mr G been warned of this (especially given his prior experience) I think 
he would have listened to the adviser. This of course, shouldve come alongside suitable advice 
regarding his OPS. Which wouldve been to explain the extremely valuable benefits Mr G had within 
his OPS and not to transfer them. Had this occurred I think Mr G wouldnt have wished to transfer. 
Even in the event Mr G wouldnt disclose what the introducers plans were, (I see no reason as to why 
he wouldnt have if properly questioned) had suitable advice been given, Mr G wouldve understood 
that his OPS was valuable to him and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring. And he 
wouldnt have then suffered the catastrophic loss of his entire retirement provision.
Following my provisional decision, Mr Gs representative responded to say that he accepted 
the decision. Wellington Court didnt respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there has been no new arguments or evidence submitted since my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to depart from the findings within it.
In conclusion, as explained in detail in my provisional decision and as set out above  
Wellington Court gave Mr G unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses he suffered 
that followed from this advice.
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr G, as closely as possible, into the position hed be in now but for 
Wellington Courts unsuitable advice. Mr G ought to have been recommended to keep 
his benefits within the OPS.
Wellington Court should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers. But the calculation should be run to date  and include the subsequent 
transfer. I understand Mr Gs pension now has a zero value.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the 
date of the actual calculation. 
Wellington Court may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) 
to obtain Mr Gs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future 
loss should if possible be paid into Mr Gs pension plan (if he has one available). The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Gs 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
In addition, Wellington Court should pay Mr G £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused him. Losing his entire pension fund wouldve caused him 
distress.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the 
date Wellington Court receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of that 90 day period, that it takes Wellington Court to pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint against Wellington Court Financial Services Limited in full and 
direct it to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman