DRN-2776160
The complaint
Miss S complains that there were errors in the valuation carried out on behalf of The 
Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) as part of a mortgage application. She has said that the 
delays caused, although put right, led to her incurring significant additional costs. 
What happened
Miss S applied, via a broker, for a mortgage with TMW. The mortgage was to be secured on 
a property she already owned, that she was going to let out. And the proceeds of the 
mortgage were to be used to buy her new home.
As part of the mortgage application TMW instructed a valuation of the property, to check that 
it was considered suitable security according to its lending criteria.
The surveyor needed an energy performance certificate (EPC) for the property and passed 
this request to TMW on 28 July 2020. TMW made an error and asked for an unrelated form 
from Miss S broker. On 4 August 2020 it acknowledged that this request was a mistake and 
the right form was requested and immediately provided and submitted.
A valuation was then provided. It valued the property and estimated rental income for it, at a 
lower level than Miss S expected. So, she appealed. As part of the appeal she was required 
to obtain and provide a lot of information about comparable properties. It came to light that 
the original valuation carried out on behalf of TMW had been based on incorrect property 
details  including a lower number of bedrooms and details of the roof construction. A 
revised valuation was then provided to TMW, based on the correct information. 
A mortgage offer was issued, and the mortgage went ahead. The purchase of Miss S new 
property also went through. But she has explained that, as a result of the delays caused 
during the valuation process by the appeals process, shed had to pay £10,000 more for her 
new property as exchange of contract and completion had taken place after the deadline to 
receive a discount.
TMW said it had made a mistake by asking for the wrong form at the end of July 2020 and 
acknowledged this had caused a delay. It offered Miss S £75 for the upset caused. In terms 
of the valuation, it referred the matter to its dedicated valuations department. It said that 
although the valuation had correctly been reviewed after the initial objection, this didnt mean 
that the original valuation was incorrect. So, it didnt think an error had been made.
Miss S asked our service to consider her complaint. One of our investigators looked into 
matters but didnt think TMW needed to do anything further. He said TMW was not 
responsible for completing the valuation so we couldnt reasonably hold it responsible for 
any errors made in it. We could only look at how it had acted. And he felt it had acted fairly 
as it had appointed a suitably qualified surveyor and informed the surveyor of Miss S 
concerns with the initial valuation once these issues were raised. TMW had made a mistake 
by asking for the wrong form, which had delayed matters a few days. But he felt the £75 
offered for this was fair and that we couldnt reasonably hold TMW responsible for Miss S 
not benefiting from the completion discount offered by the developers of her new property.
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She said that TMW had appointed the 
surveyors to act on their behalf, so she felt TMW was responsible for their errors. And she 
maintained these errors had caused the increase in the purchase price shed had to pay on 
her new property.
As Miss S did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of considering Miss S mortgage application, TMW needed to be satisfied that the 
property being mortgaged represented a suitable security in relation to its lending criteria. To 
do that, it instructed a surveyor to carry out a valuation. 
Miss S says that TMW should be responsible for the actions of the surveyor and any errors 
they mightve made. But I dont agree. The valuation was for TMWs purposes, so that it 
could determine if it was willing to lend. Essentially it has requested the independent opinion 
of the surveyor in order to decide this. I dont think TMW can reasonably be responsible for 
the independent opinion, in the form of a valuation report, given to it by a third party. So, I 
dont think TMW is responsible for the contents of the valuation or how the surveyor carried 
out the valuation. Rather I can only reasonably consider, and hold TMW responsible for, 
actions it has carried out.
TMW has provided information about the surveying firm it appointed to carry out the 
valuation. Based on what Ive seen they seem to be appropriately qualified. So, I dont think 
TMW acted unreasonably by appointing this surveyor or in accepting their opinion of the 
property.
Based on what Ive seen, TMW appointed the surveyor promptly as part of the mortgage 
application process, so didnt cause any undue delays. It also appears to have submitted the 
information in support of Miss S appeal to the surveyor quickly, once this was received, and 
taken on board the revised valuation and updated its mortgage offer promptly.
TMW did cause a delay of several days by requesting the wrong form at the end of 
July 2020. But it acknowledged this was an error in correspondence with Miss S broker 
shortly afterwards. And it offered £75 for the inconvenience caused by this error. Taking 
everything into account I think this offer is fair.
Miss S has said that if the valuation provided after appeal had been given at the outset, she 
couldve completed the purchase of her new property sooner and benefitted from a reduction 
in the purchase price. And she has provided evidence to show that, had exchange of 
contracts on her new property been completed sooner, the total purchase price wouldve 
been reduced. 
Although the information provided shows matters did progress promptly after the revised 
valuation was provided, it was still several weeks before everything was finalised  the 
mortgage with TMW and the purchase of the new property. And even if the valuation had 
been completed sooner, there could conceivably have been other issues that mightve led to 
the deadline for the discounted purchase price being missed.  
But anyway, as Ive explained above, outside of the issue with requesting the incorrect form, 
I dont think TMW has acted unreasonably or caused any undue delays. So, I dont think I can reasonably require TMW to compensate Miss S for the difference in the purchase price 
because I dont think its responsible for the purchase of her new property not completing by 
the deadline.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint as I think the offer already made 
by The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman