DRN-1143280
The complaint
Mr D is complaining that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) settled a claim 
a third party made on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D was involved in an accident with another driver in a car park. Mr D didn't make a claim 
for damage, but the third party did do so. Mr D contacted LV twice the day after the accident 
to report the incident. He says during the first call, he said he thought the other driver had 
driven into his car. During the second call he says he told the call handler there was potential 
CCTV footage and he says the call handler agreed that CCTV evidence could help confirm 
the circumstances and identify of who had caused the damage to both vehicles. He says the 
call handler said LV would seek to obtain a copy of the incident CCTV footage.
Mr D called LV again a few weeks later and LV told him it had accepted liability for the 
accident and it was settling the third party's claim. Mr D complained to LV and raised the 
following points:
1. LV didn't caution or inform him that it would treat his first notification of the incident as 
being sufficient to determine liability. He thinks LV should have sent him a claim form 
to complete.
2. LV holds him liable for the incident, and authorised repair of the other car without 
consulting him first. He's unhappy it didn't tell him it had accepted liability until it was 
too late to influence those decisions.
3. LV didn't obtain or consider the CCTV footage showing the actual sequence of 
events as he says it had agreed to do when he first called to discuss the incident.
 
LV didn't think it had acted unfairly. It said it had told Mr D on the first call when he called to 
report the incident that he'd be held at fault for the accident and it said it would settle the 
third party's claim. It said the statement Mr D gave indicated that his car was moving at the 
point of impact. So it said it made the decision to not get the CCTV footage because it 
didn't deem the CCTV necessary as it thought the circumstances of the incident would place 
Mr D at fault.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint, but didn't uphold it. He said, having listened to the 
telephone calls Mr D had with LV, he thought it had acted fairly. He said that while Mr D 
didnt say he was moving he thought it was reasonable for LV to have inferred that he was 
doing so. He said Mr D said the following:
It was a very low speed incident  I was in a congested car park temporarily and I started 
to reverse the car  and as I went to reverse away from the parking area, and while I was 
making that manoeuvre another vehicle swung in to enter the same area and we collided at 
low speed.
The investigator explained LV had told Mr D that, as he was reversing, he had the greater 
duty of care. And he said Mr D responded by saying:OK, it [the car park] was definitely clear before I started the manoeuvre.
So the investigator didnt think, on balance, that Mr D was stationary and fully in the car 
parking space as he stated. 
The investigator also highlighted that the call handler further stated:
we will make contact with him [the third party] just to get that little bit of damage sorted for 
him, if he insists on going through his own insurance then we will await contact from them 
and settle it [the claim] on the best possible terms.
The investigator highlighted Mr D replied to say:
To be honest, if theres any way I can minimise this  can I pay for his damage?
The investigator said there was also a discussion on how this incident would affect Mr Ds 
premium and his no claims bonus. So he thought it was clear from this that LV werent going 
to dispute liability.
Mr D also states that LV should have contacted the car park owner to request the CCTV 
footage. The investigator said LV advised it didnt do this at the time as the liability had 
already been decided. But he said, when Mr D raised this with LV, it did request the footage 
on two occasions, but it didnt receive a response.
The investigator didnt think LV had acted inappropriately in not requesting the CCTV 
footage as it had already decided to accept liability. He also didnt think LV had said it would 
get the CCTV footage. He said, while he could understand why Mr D thought LV would get 
the footage, he didnt think the call handler had specifically said LV would do so. He 
highlighted that the call handler said
we will also do what we can to try and request [the CCTV footage] as well but I think its 
more than likely if it is available then his [third partys] insurance would certainly use that 
against us.
The investigator also noted the call ended with Mr D confirming with the advisor that he has:
recorded the fact that there might be CCTV recording that might be evidence of what 
happened.
The investigator ultimately concluded that, while he didnt doubt Mr D thought LV would 
request the CCTV footage, he also thought it was made clear that LV was accepting liability 
and it would be dealing with the third partys claim.
Mr D didn't accept the investigator's opinion and provided a detailed response for why he 
didn't do so. But in summary he still thought LV treated him unfairly for the following 
reasons: 
LV didn't tell him it would use the initial notification call to decide liability.
LV didn't confirm a decision on liability was made during the notification call.
LV didn't obtain the CCTV footage after they agreed to do so.
He's unhappy LV didn't tell him it wouldn't be requesting the CCTV footage promptly.
He thinks LV should have kept him informed of developments in the case before it 
was too late to influence the outcome.
He doesn't think LV dealt with my case in a way that would ensure a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
As Mr D didn't agree with the investigator, he asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided to not uphold this complaint and I'll now explain why.
Mr D has raised a number of points that he wants this service to take into account. Ive taken 
them all into consideration. But Ive not commented on each and every point hes raised. No 
discourtesy is meant by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. In this 
decision Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. So it's not for me to say whether Mr D did cause 
this accident or not. Our role is to look at whether LV has carried out a fair investigation, 
reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision. 
Mr D's policy, like all other car insurance policies, allowed LV to have total control to 
conduct, defend and settle any claim. So it was entitled to settle the claim on the best terms 
it thought fit. And it had the ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. But it needed to 
exercise this right fairly and reasonably, taking into account everything both parties had 
provided.
I appreciate Mr D thinks it's unfair LV used what he said on the telephone call to decide 
liability and he thinks it should have sent him a claim form to complaint. But it's standard 
practice that insurers use the first statement provided to make a decision on liability and it's 
not unreasonable that they do so. In this case Mr D gave a clear explanation of what 
happened, so it was fair for LV to record this statement as Mr D's version of events.
I note Mr D thinks LV has misinterpreted what he said in the call, but I don't think it acted 
unfairly in this respect. I agree with the investigator's comments that it was reasonable for LV 
to have concluded that he was still in the process of completing the reversing manoeuvre 
when the impact happened. And I'm satisfied it clearly explained to Mr D in a fair and 
reasonable way that he would be found at fault for the accident and it would settle the claim.
I acknowledge Mr D called back to say that there was CCTV footage. I also appreciate Mr D 
took from the call that the call hander said it would get the CCTV, but I don't think it did say it 
would definitely be getting this, but would be considering whether this was necessary. And, 
as I said above, LV were entitled to make the decision whether it wanted to get the CCTV 
footage or not. It ultimately didn't think it was necessary to get this because it thought Mr D's 
own version of events would have made him at fault for the accident. I can't say that it was 
unfair for it to make this decision.
Ultimately, while I acknowledge Mr D feels strongly about this matter, I haven't seen 
anything to say LV has handled this claim unfairly. It was entitled to make the decision to 
settle the third party's claim when it did and it wasn't required to consult with Mr D before it 
did so. That said, I'm also satisfied it explained to Mr D it would be doing so. And, given this, 
I don't think it needed to update Mr D further about what was happening with the claim.My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, it's my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman