DRN-2759897
The complaint
 Mr M complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a fixed sum loan agreement 
financed by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc. 
 
What happened
Mr M purchased a new vehicle from a dealership in December 2018, using a fixed sum loan 
agreement supplied by Santander to cover part of the purchase price.
 
Mr M has experienced a number of faults with the vehicle, as follows: 
August 2019  Information system flicking on and off. Required a software upgrade. 
September 2019  Oil stains noticed on driveway. Required repair to a failed shock 
absorber which had caused an oil leak. 
October 2019  Suspension problems accompanied by a warning light. Required a 
fuse to be changed. 
December 2019  Suspension problems. Required repair of a faulty compressor. 
January 2020  Engine management warning light. Required repair to a pipe which 
had come loose in the engine. 
January 2020  Urgent warning light to say the battery wasnt charging. Required a 
software update due to an unknown electrical fault. 
Each time Mr M experienced a problem with his vehicle, he took it to his nearest approved 
manufacturer dealership and the repairs have all been completed under warranty, at no cost 
to Mr M. 
Unhappy with the frequent faults, Mr M complained to the dealership that he purchased the 
vehicle from, and to Santander. Mr M says that hes worried about driving the car as he 
doesnt know if or when another fault is going to occur. He asked for a partial refund on the 
purchase price of the vehicle, because hed bought an expensive prestige car that wasnt 
living up to expectations. 
Santander looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt take any further action. They said that as 
there was currently no fault with the car as theyd all been repaired, there was no satisfactory 
quality issue to consider. They also said that as Mr M hadnt contacted the dealership where 
he purchased the car, they hadnt had an opportunity to put things right. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr M. Initially, she thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and Mr M should 
be able to reject it. After further consideration, our investigator felt that as Mr M hadnt 
informed the selling dealer or Santander of the problems he was experiencing, they couldnt 
be held responsible now, and so she didnt think Santander needed to do anything more. 
Mr M has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He feels that hes acted 
reasonably in taking his car to his nearest manufacturer dealership, and questions if theres 
any other law that would allow him to claim redress for the quality of the vehicle.
 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated fixed sum loan agreement  so we 
can consider a complaint relating to it. Santander as the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired new with a cash price of around £56,000. With this in mind, I 
think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher 
than a cheaper, higher mileage, vehicle and that the vehicle could be used free from even 
minor defects, for a considerable period of time. 
Mr M began to experience problems with the vehicle in around August 2019, when the car 
had been driven for approximately 4,000 miles. Mr M continued to experience problems with 
the car in late 2019 and early 2020 and took it to a dealership on six occasions for repairs to 
be made. Ive seen the job sheets and evidence for these repairs, and there have been 
faults with the software, suspension and the engine. 
Theres no suggestion that these faults were caused by fair wear and tear, or by driving style 
or third party damage. All things considered, I dont think a reasonable person would expect 
to encounter these problems early on in the life of a brand-new car, with a significant 
purchase price. 
Im persuaded that the car had an inherent defect, or was not reasonably durable, and so 
was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Having made that finding I need to decide what, if anything, Santander should do to put 
things right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. Mr M has taken the vehicle to a manufacturer approved dealership, and the goods 
have been repaired at no cost to him. I havent seen any evidence that any of these repairs 
have failed, and the goods have been returned to a satisfactory condition. 
As a result, I find that Mr M has received a remedy under the Consumer Rights Act. He isnt 
now able to reject the goods or receive a partial refund, as hes accepted the remedy of 
repair and theres no ongoing breach of contract. 
I understand that Mr M has some reservations about driving his vehicle as hes experienced 
so many problems. I understand that there hasnt been a reported problem with the vehicle 
for some time. If Mr M should experience any problems with the vehicle in the future, he 
should raise these with either the selling dealership, or with Santander. I understand that Mr M didnt take his vehicle to the selling dealership for the previous faults, 
because there was a manufacturer approved dealership closer to his home which was less 
inconvenient for him to travel to. As the repairs were all completed under warranty, and 
therefore at no cost to Mr M or to Santander, I find it wasnt unreasonable for Mr M to take 
this action. 
Mr M has been put to distress and inconvenience by the need to arrange multiple repairs 
and having to travel to and from the dealership to have his vehicle repaired. I think that 
Santander should pay him £200 compensation to reflect this. 
Santander replied to my provisional decision to say they had nothing further to add. 
Mr M replied to my provisional decision to say that the repairs did fail, the faults in October 
and December 2019 were the same, so the car wasnt returned in a satisfactory condition 
and the faults in August 2019 and January 2020 related to the electronic management 
system, so the car wasnt returned in a satisfactory condition in August 2019. 
Mr M also feels the award of £200 is too low. He says that the distress and inconvenience 
effected his wife as well, the matter has been made more difficult to resolve as Santander 
admitted no liability, so he had to pursue a complaint and he was unable to use his vehicle 
regularly because it was unreliable.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Ms comments in relation to the vehicle not being returned in 
satisfactory condition. I accept that some of the earlier repairs appear to have failed, and 
further repairs have been required. Mr M might have been in a position to exercise a right to 
reject the car after the failure of the early repairs. But he accepted instead additional repairs 
to the vehicle. I havent seen any evidence that these have failed, or that there is any 
ongoing fault with the car. So, Im satisfied that Mr M has received a remedy under the 
Consumer Rights Act, in that his vehicle has been returned to a condition of satisfactory 
quality, and there is no longer a breach of contract in this respect. 
Mr M has made a number of points about the distress and inconvenience aspect of my 
award, and Ive considered all of these carefully. The agreement is in Mr Ms name only, so 
Im unable to consider any distress or inconvenience caused to Mr Ms wife. 
Mr M says that he was unable to use the vehicle as much as hed have liked because he 
was worried about its reliability. I can see why this might be the case given the number of 
times it required repairing in a short space of time. Ive thought about the use that Mr M did 
have of the car. I appreciate that some of the mileage would have been as a result of taking 
the car to and from repairs, but I think that Mr M has had reasonable usage of the vehicle 
throughout the period in question, so I wont be making an award for impaired use. 
Mr M says that Santander made the process more difficult by not accepting liability. Its 
reasonable to say that sometimes things do go wrong, and some inconvenience can be 
expected when problems happen. 
Having thought about all of the circumstances surrounding this issue, I think its reasonable 
that the compensation I should award here is modest, and that £200 is fair.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc to pay Mr M £200 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman