DRN-3947628
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) sent him a letter (that was not sent by 
recorded delivery) without paying for postage. Mr M was required to drive to a post office 
and pay £2.50 to release the letter.
Mr M is also unhappy with the initial member of staff he spoke to, for example he was 
unhappy they asked him to confirm his mobile phone number; Mr M says they were unable 
to understand his complaint; and did not put him through to a manager when he asked to be.
Mr M is unhappy that he called Lloyds a number of times to set up a security passcode 
number on his complaint but was unable to do so.
Mr M is also unhappy that Lloyds reminded him to treat its staff with respect.
What happened
After we sent on the evidence that Mr M had provided, Lloyds said that it was willing to pay 
Mr M £22.50. This was to recognise the £2.50 that Mr M had to pay to release the letter and 
also £20 to recognise the trouble and upset caused by the error.
Mr M didnt accept the offer, so one of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they 
thought that Lloyds should pay Mr M further compensation  a total of £52.50. The 
adjudicator felt this better reflected the inconvenience caused to Mr M, specifically for:
The inconvenience of being sent a DSAR that wasnt pre-paid or sent recorded 
delivery, which he had to go pick up, pay for, and raise as a complaint to be resolved
the frustration of being told incorrect information and being passed to different
departments to be verified
the cost of some of the calls, for example where Lloyds asked him to call back and 
use his security number, as it seems this was unnecessary and didnt work for him.
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions and said that Lloyds should pay him £100 
compensation.
As Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions, the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I can see that since the adjudicator assessed the complaint, matters have developed further 
between Mr M and Lloyds. And Mr M wants our service to look into his wider concerns - 
such as Lloyds apparent failure to deal with his Data Subject Access Rights requests. 
However, I would like to remind both parties that Im limited to only considering the complaint 
as it was first presented to Lloyds and subsequently our service.
I would also like to remind both parties Im unable to look into any concerns raised by Mr M 
about how Lloyds dealt with the complaint. This is because, as explained by the adjudicator, 
complaint handling in itself is not a regulated activity or an activity that our service is able to 
look into.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed, everything, I think that what the adjudicator recommended to put matters 
right was not unreasonable in the circumstances.
Letter sent without postage paid
Mr M has provided evidence that indicates that he did receive a letter from Lloyds, in which 
Lloyds had not paid the postage for. So I think its fair that Lloyds reimburse the £2.50 Mr M 
spent to release the letter.
I also think the £20 offered to Mr M by Lloyds to recognise the inconvenience he incurred 
due to the postage not being paid is not unreasonable. And although Mr M says that this 
matter has now dragged on for some time, in fairness to Lloyds, it did say to Mr M in its final 
response letter that it would consider the costs he incurred if he provided evidence. So from 
what I can see, Lloyds was willing to reimburse Mr Ms added costs when it responded to Mr 
Ms complaint if further information was provided and Lloyds has since agreed to do so, after 
we had forwarded on the evidence that Mr M had provided us with.
Mr M has said that the letter in question was meant to be sent by recorded delivery and it 
wasnt. However, whilst that may be the case, as Mr M did receive the letter in question 
(albeit after having to pay for the postage first), the fact it wasnt sent by recorded delivery 
doesnt appear to have made any material difference in this matter  once the 
reimbursement of potage costs of the letter is taken into account.
Unhappy with initial complaint handler
As I have explained above, Im unable to consider how Mr Ms complaint was handled, as 
that is something that our service is not generally able to do  because complaint handling is 
no in itself an activity that our service has jurisdiction to investigate. Therefore, I am unable 
to comment on Mr Ms dissatisfaction with the complaint handler he spoke to when he first 
lodged his complaint with Lloyds. Nor can I comment on what mayve been discussed when 
Mr M spoke to the complaints manager.
Difficulties contacting the bank about his complaint
Mr M has complained that he repeatedly tried to set up a passcode with Lloyds, as he didnt 
want to provide his date of birth when completing Lloyds security questions. 
During a telephone conversation Mr M had with Lloyds on the day after he first raised his 
complaint, when discussing ways around having to disclose his date of birth, a member of 
staff explained that if Mr M contacted Lloyds servicing team, once he completes the 
security questions with that team, they could setup a passcode on his complaint. However, 
when Mr M called Lloyds customer service team shortly after, they said that setting up a 
passcode on his complaint was not actually possible, at least with the customer service 
team.
Having listened to the calls, I can see that this caused Mr M frustration and inconvenience in 
calling Lloyds (again) about this matter. As such, I think that the adjudicators 
recommendation that the redress should be increased to £52.50 to reflect the frustration 
caused to Mr M by being given incorrect information seems reasonable in the 
circumstances. Lloyds request that Mr M treat its staff with respect
I can see that Mr M had complained that the first member of staff he spoke to had poor 
levels of English, and Mr M feels as though this caused difficulties in the member of staff 
understanding what it was he was complaining about. In its final response letter, Lloyds 
reminded Mr M to treat its staff respectfully. 
I understand that Mr M is unhappy with Lloyds response, as he felt that it was being 
insinuated that he was being racist. Mr M says that he is offended by this, as he says he was 
himself the victim of racist abuse when he was younger. 
Although I acknowledge Mr Ms perspective and strength of feelings on the matter, at the 
same time, I cant say that what Lloyds said was being unfair or unreasonable. Lloyds owes 
a duty of care to its employees, and I think sending a polite request in its final response 
letter, asking Mr M to treat its staff members with respect, is not an unreasonable request to 
make.
So in conclusion, whilst I recognise that not everything went smoothly in this matter  namely 
Lloyds not paying for the postage and for the incorrect information Mr M was given about 
how he could contact Lloyds without having to disclose his date of birth - at the same time, I 
think that what the adjudicator recommended to resolve this matter was not unreasonable in 
the circumstances.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Lloyds needs to pay Mr M £52.50 to reflect the costs of the letter that 
was sent with unpaid postage and also to reflect the frustration and inconvenience Mr M 
experienced in this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC 
to do what I have outlined above in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman