DRN-3199623
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until recently, Mrs and Mr G held with Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. Theyre unhappy that Barclays took more money from their current account 
(also with Barclays) than they actually owed on the mortgage for the final payment. Its a 
joint complaint, but all of our dealings have been with Mr G.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr G and Barclays. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which 
has been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions 
are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might result in 
Mrs and Mr G being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words, rounding 
the figures involved, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint.
In August 2021, the final payment was due on Mrs and Mr Gs mortgage. The amount owing 
was around £470, including the exit fee, but Barclays inadvertently took the regular monthly 
amount  a little under £890  by mistake. This prompted a text alert to say the current 
account the money was taken from was overdrawn and would attract charges. 
Mr G transferred some money to make sure that didnt happen. He then contacted Barclays 
to find out what had happened; it said the overpayment of around £418 would be returned, 
and agreed compensation totalling £75 with Mr G. Mr G contacted the bank a few days later, 
unhappy that the money hadnt been returned yet. Barclays offered a further £25, but Mr G 
referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator thought Barclays response was fair, but Mr G wants the case referred to an 
ombudsman. His views on the matter can be summed up in his email dated 
22 December 2021; he poses the question of whether it would be ok for him to steal £400 
from a Barclays till and then return it the next day with £100 compensation on top. He says 
Barclays needs to be punished.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
This is a relatively straightforward case. Thats because its not a complaint where I have to 
decide fault. Its common ground that Barclays took more money under the direct debit than 
was actually owing on the mortgage. Barclays has admitted as much, and agreed to pay 
Mrs and Mr G compensation for the impact it had on them. What that leaves for me to decide 
is whether the current offer (£100 in total) is a fair settlement, or whether Barclays needs to 
do more. 
A useful starting point here would be a brief summary of how the direct debit system works. 
A direct debit mandate is a very broad instruction, in that it authorises the originator (that is, 
the business to which the money goes) to collect unspecified amounts on unspecified dates 
from its customers current account. But to protect consumers from the risk that money might 
be collected that isnt due, the direct debit system includes a guarantee that the current 
account operator (in this case, Barclays was both the originator and the current account 
operator) must refund any amount that a consumer says an originator should not have 
taken. 
Thats been the case ever since direct debits were first introduced in the UK in 1964. Once 
thats understood, it immediately becomes apparent that Mr G has rather mis-directed 
himself. Barclays didnt steal the money from Mrs and Mr G; nor did it take the money 
without their authority. It had their authority by virtue of the direct debit mandate. Barclays 
simply made a mistake in the amount it collected in its capacity as originator, which it then 
put right in accordance with its obligations under the direct debit guarantee, in its capacity as 
current account operator. Nonetheless, if Mr G really believes he and Mrs G have been the 
victims of theft, its open to him to go to the police. Were not a part of the criminal justice 
system. 
Mr G has told us he and Mrs G suffered no financial detriment; so when assessing fair 
compensation for the banks mistake, I need only consider the extent to which this episode 
inconvenienced Mrs and Mr G. As the investigator has already made clear, we dont punish 
businesses for their mistakes. 
During the first call with the bank, Mr G readily agreed that £75 was a fair amount; I also 
agree. Its regrettable that it took a second call a few days later to get clarity on when the 
money would be returned. But the further £25 Barclays offered for this is quite enough in my 
view. If no offer of compensation had been made, I would not be awarding more than the 
£100 in total that Barclays has made here.
Mrs and Mr G dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mrs and Mr Gs right to take legal action against Barclays  or report it 
to the police - over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our 
consideration of it. However, they might wish to get legal advice first before going down that 
route. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill simply leave it to Mrs and Mr G to decide whether, on further 
reflection, they wish to accept Barclays offer to settle the dispute.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman