DRN-3203028
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the information Tesco Personal Finance PLC recorded on his credit file 
following missed payments for his personal loan.   
What happened
Mr S says he agreed a payment break on his personal loan with Tesco. The payment break 
was due to Covid-19 and was agreed for May, June, and July 2020. Following the payment 
break Mr S paid the August September and October repayments as required. Mr S says he 
took another payment break in October for three months. 
Mr S says he contacted Tesco in February 2021 and asked it to put a hold on his loan 
account since he was facing some financial difficulties following the pandemic. 
Mr S says a payment plan was agreed with Tesco from March 2021 to July 2021 in order to 
continue with his loan repayments, and to avoid any adverse credit issues. 
In April Mr S called Tesco to complain the payment due in February had been recorded with 
credit reference agencies as being missed. Tesco looked into it and said February had been 
recorded correctly since Mr S did not make a payment, but it had noticed March had been 
incorrectly recorded. Tesco updated Mr Ss credit file and paid him £50 to apologise for the 
error. 
Mr S says he complained to Tesco again in June since his credit report showed missing 
payments from April and May instead of showing the agreed arrangement in place. Tesco 
upheld Mr Ss complaint. It updated Mr Ss credit report and paid him £200 to reflect the 
inconvenience and distress caused. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the response from Tesco, and the fact the same error had occurred 
on several occasions which, he says, could have affected his ability to secure a permanent 
job or apply for a mortgage. So Mr S complained to this service. 
Before his complaint was allocated to an investigator Mr S says he had to complain again 
due to the July and August payments being recorded as missed instead of reflecting the 
arrangement. Tesco said the payment was recorded incorrectly due to a system error and 
amended the report. It paid Mr S £150 to apologise for the error. Mr S was not happy the 
same error continued to occur. 
Mr S says payments were also recorded as missed in September and October despite him 
paying his contractual payments. But Tesco didnt agree. It said it accurately reported the 
status of the account.
Tesco accept there were several occasions where it reported incorrectly to the Credit 
Reference Agencies. It says each time it rectified Mr Ss credit file, and he was paid 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S. Tesco says it 
resolved each complaint fairly
. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the response from Tesco and didnt think the amount paid reflected 
the impact the matter had on him. Mr S says the situation has caused him considerable 
distress and anxiety. Our investigator looked into things for Mr S and agreed Tesco had 
placed incorrect information onto the credit file on some occasions. He said Tescos 
compensation payment to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S was fair in 
the circumstances. The investigator also noted Tesco had corrected the information quickly 
when it became aware of it. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr S has told us his credit file shows a missed payment for November when Mr S says he 
had already settled the loan. Since this was raised after our initial view was given, it doesnt 
form part of my decision. As such I wont be commenting on this point. If Mr S wishes to 
pursue it he can raise it with Tesco.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
It is clear Mr S feels strongly about this issue and I understand it must be frustrating that 
incorrect information was recorded on his credit file by Tesco; especially considering Mr S 
had contacted Tesco to make arrangements so as not to affect his credit adversely. 
But in looking at the complaint I need to look at whether Tesco acted unfairly or 
inappropriately in how it dealt with the situation including recording the missed payments on 
Mr Ss credit file.
When Mr S contacted Tesco in February 2021 to ask it to put a hold on the account Tesco 
did so. Mr S didnt make that months repayment and so Tesco correctly reported it as a 
missed payment. I am satisfied Tesco didnt do anything wrong here since there was no 
alternative arrangement in place at the time Februarys payment was due. 
When Tesco was investigating Mr Ss complaint about the February payment it realised 
Marchs payment had been incorrectly recorded as missed. Tesco updated Mr Ss credit file 
with the correct information and paid Mr S £50 to reflect the inconvenience caused. I am 
satisfied Tesco corrected the error as soon as it became known to them and paid Mr S 
reasonable compensation by way of an apology.  
I can see some payments were recorded as missed payments despite there being an 
alternative arrangement for payment in place at the time. Tesco accepted this error and paid 
Mr S £350 in total to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. Tesco said its system 
hadnt recognised the payment plan in place at the time which led to the error. But it was 
identified and rectified reasonably quickly. 
Mr S complained September and October were recorded as missed payments rather than 
alternative arrangements. I see from the file the agreed payment plan was extended until 
July 2021 and therefore did not include September and October. Given there was no 
arrangement in place Mr S was expected to make the repayment as per the original 
agreement. However even with those payments being made the account was still in arrears 
owing to the reduced amounts paid under the previously agreed repayment plan. And since 
there were arrears on the account Tesco were required to report it. A missed payment can 
also include the account being in arrears So I dont think Tesco acted unfairly in reporting the 
payments in the way it did. Tesco are obliged to record a true and accurate reflection of Mr Ss account on his credit file.  
And so while I accept Tesco made mistakes I can also see it tried to put right those 
mistakes. Tesco paid Mr S a total of £400 in compensation and corrected his credit file 
where there were errors. I think the compensation Tesco paid fairly reflects the 
inconvenience caused to Mr S. 
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached. But based on 
everything Ive seen I think Tesco have done enough to rectify the issue. 
My final decision
Tesco Personal Finance PLC has already paid Mr S £400. I do not require it to take any 
further steps to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman