DRN-2724738
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about investment advice they received from a predecessor firm of 
BFS Financial Services Limited. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S received investment advice in 2007 from a firm (Firm A) which was later taken 
over by a predecessor firm (Firm B) of BFS in 2009. They were advised to invest in an 
offshore bond held in a discounted gift trust.
They complained to BFS in 2019 about the advice theyd received. They were unhappy that 
the trust wasnt doing what they were promised and thought theyd been poorly advised. 
They were also unhappy with the performance of the bond and the tax they were incurring 
on the income payments they received.
BFS didnt uphold their complaint. They said that the investment had been arranged by Firm 
A who retained liability for past advice. Therefore, Mr and Mrs S needed to go to their 
original adviser with any concerns about the original advice. 
They acknowledged that Mr and Mrs S had raised the issue of tax with their new adviser at 
their annual review meeting in 2011. The adviser had checked with the bond providers 
technical helpline but established that the income arrangement couldnt be altered or 
amended. They also acknowledged that the issue was raised at subsequent review 
meetings but said they always reiterated that the arrangement couldnt be changed.
Mr and Mrs S then bought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of 
our investigators. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that BFS were 
not responsible for the advice provided to Mr and Mrs S, as the liability for the advice was 
not taken on when Firm A became part of Firm B. So, it wasnt possible to uphold a 
complaint about the suitability of the advice against BFS.
Mr and Mrs S acknowledged the investigators findings but thought that BFS had a duty
of care to look into the complaint and challenge Firm A on their behalf. The investigator 
wasnt minded to change her opinion, she thought that while BFS could have pointed Mr S in 
the direction of his previous adviser to lodge a complaint, there was no requirement for them 
to do so. But this would not change the fact that BFS couldnt be held responsible for the 
suitability of the advice given by Firm A.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. Both 
parties made further submissions. BFS said, in summary:
They accepted that Mr S raised concerns about the investment at a meeting in 
November 2011. During this meeting, their adviser pointed out that as the income 
arrangement had been established at the outset of trust it could not be altered or 
amended and re-iterated this at subsequent meetings. It wasnt their responsibility to 
refer Mr and Mrs S back to Firm A, but Mr and Mrs S always had the opportunity to 
do so if they wished. 
They didnt think they had a duty to review that the policy continued to meet Mr and 
Mrs S requirements. It was not possible to change the arrangement as it was set up 
originally, regardless of the number of reviews conducted. The issue therefore was 
with the original advice and not the ongoing servicing.
Mr and Mrs S said, in summary:
They were disappointed that BFS did not review the suitability of the scheme that 
Firm A put in place and did not deal with it as a complaint
Had they done so, Mr and Mrs S would have been able to raise the issue in 2011 
with Firm A
To simply say that there was nothing that could be done highlighted the fact that the 
investment was inflexible. And didnt deal with the real issue that it wasnt suitable 
and would only get worse over time, creating an ongoing problem
If BFS were not responsible for the initial advice they should have stated this and 
directed Mr and Mrs S, if still unhappy with their finding, to raise it with this service. If 
this had been done the issue of liability would have been clear and would have given 
them the route to seek a response from Firm A 
They now knew that Firm A were fully liable for the advice given and had raised a 
separate complaint against them
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold this complaint, but Id firstly like to say that Im sorry 
to hear of the health issues Mr S has suffered from over the last few years. I understand that 
my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S but Id like to reassure them that 
Ive carefully considered the points theyve made.
The evidence I have seen shows that the advice was given by Firm A and they retained 
liability for that advice when they were taken over by Firm B (and later BFS). As the 
investigator set out in her assessment, BFS may have taken on the servicing rights for the 
investment but they didnt take on the liability for any issues arising from the advice. 
Therefore, the responsibility for that advice remains with Firm A, so it is they who Mr and Mrs 
S would need to complain to.
I take the point that the investment was inflexible. Broadly speaking, income from discounted 
gift trusts is fixed from the outset. Once it starts being paid it isnt usually changed or 
stopped as there could be trust and tax implications. Mr and Mrs S were made aware of this 
issue in 2011 so Ive then considered if BFS should have directed Mr and Mrs S to complain 
to Firm A earlier than they did. 
From what Ive seen Mr and Mrs S did raise questions about the income payments they 
were receiving from the bond  and the chargeable event that was being created each time. 
But it would appear that BFS looked into the matter and found that the income arrangement 
couldnt be changed. 
They explained this to Mr and Mrs S and reiterated this point at subsequent meetings. I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs S were disappointed with the investment but ultimately it was 
down to them to then complain about the advice theyd received. I note what they have said 
about BFS having a duty of care or moral obligation to tell them to complain to Firm A, but there simply was no requirement for BFS to tell Mr and Mrs S to complain, or to complain or 
their behalf. 
I can see that when Mr and Mrs S did eventually complain to BFS in 2019 they were told 
where to direct their complaint to. I think its reasonable to suggest that if they had 
complained earlier then they would have received this information earlier. Taking all of this 
into account and while I appreciate Mr and Mrs S frustration, I dont think I can fairly say that 
BFS have done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman