DRN-2382623
The complaint
Mr B complains about errors that he says Curtis Banks Limited (CB) made with respect to
his pension. This includes the incorrect sale of holdings, incorrect deduction of tax on
pension payments, errors with invoices and lack of clarity with respect to pension payments.
He says this has delayed pension payments. He says this has caused financial loss.
Furthermore fees were increased and have been incurred with respect to transferring his
pension to another pension provider. He also believes that his complaint has not been
treated or addressed properly by CB.
What happened
Mr Bs wife also has a very similar complaint and I will consider that separately. Mrs B has 
acted for Mr B in respect of his complaint.
Mr B had a SIPP for several years with CB (or businesses for which CB now takes 
responsibility). This was fairly recently transferred to another business. Mr B has raised 
several complaints with CB over time.
In 2017 he made a complaint about the income being paid from his SIPP and the tax code 
being used. CB did not uphold this complaint. Mr B also complained about the content of 
SIPP bank statements, invoicing of fees, pension payslips and VAT deduction with respect 
to one of Mr Bs properties which he held in the SIPP. CB did uphold this complaint and 
made an offer of £200, which Mr B accepted at the time. When Mr B transferred to another 
SIPP he also made a complaint about the costs brought about by CBs actions. CB upheld 
this complaint and made an offer to resolve it, later amended to include a payment for any 
distress caused and an offer to waive certain fees. Mr B did not accept this offer and the 
matter was referred to this service.
An investigator at this service considered the complaints that had been made. The 
investigator considered the issue of the VAT applied to one of Mr Bs properties that was 
held in his SIPP. She noted that CB had made an error it terms of applying VAT to the 
property. However, given it had reclaimed the VAT incorrectly applied, corrected an error 
with the invoicing of the SIPP, and offered £200 for the inconvenience caused (which Mr B 
had accepted at the time), she felt that it had put matters right. 
She felt that CB did not act incorrectly in applying an emergency tax code to income 
withdrawals and paying the income set out on the applicable form (rather than the actual 
rental income received). 
In terms of any delay in transfer of Mr Bs SIPP, she felt that the properties held within it 
were transferred within a reasonable period of time. She noted that in terms of the other 
difficulties in transfer CB had offered to waive fees and pay an additional compensation 
payment. She felt that, over time, CB had offered to waive fees of over £4,000 and pay 
further sums for any inconvenience caused. She felt this was a reasonable resolution in the 
circumstances.
Mrs B, on behalf of Mr B, did not agree. She didnt agree that CB had acted correctly when 
transferring the SIPPs or in administering the property transfer. In particular, she didnt 
believe that cash was transferred in good time. The entire transfer should have taken place 
by April but this did not happen until several months later. She queries why she and Mr B are 
still receiving payments into their SIPP from CB if the SIPPs have been transferred. She said 
that because of the cumulative mistakes and errors made by CB over time they felt they had 
to transfer as they had no confidence in CBs ability to manage their SIPPs. This would not 
have had to happen if it had provided appropriate service. 
Mrs B disagrees that extra solicitors costs in respect of the transfer were caused by their 
choice of solicitor. She believes the fees were less than a CB panel solicitors fees. She says 
that the reason they claim a refund of the solicitors fees is that they wouldnt have had to 
transfer if CB had managed their SIPPs properly. Also, the fees were higher because CB 
held up the transfers and she provided correspondence from their solicitor which she felt 
evidenced that. She provided a breakdown of those fees. 
She indicated that the £875 CB had offered for the distress caused was acceptable but she 
did also require that all fees be reimbursed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The matters that Mrs B has referred to span a number of years and relate to multiple errors 
that Mrs B says CB has made. I have considered that but will concentrate in this decision on 
what I believe are the material issues. I will not necessary address every point that had been 
made over the years.
Overall, I would say that, after considering the evidence, it is apparent that CB (or 
businesses CB has acquired) has made errors over time, which I appreciate would have 
caused Mr B upset and inconvenience. I have considered what is fair to redress in the 
context of what CB has offered to put matters right.
I note that Mrs B has said that the sum offered by CB for the distress caused is acceptable. 
But she would like the total fees incurred by the SIPP transfer be refunded or paid. In the 
main these are the legal fees incurred  which Mrs B says amount to around £5,000. 
I have noted that CB acknowledged there had been some issues with the SIPP transfer, 
including property transfer. It agreed to waive the following fees:
Transfer Out Fee                        £250
Non Panel Solicitor Fee               £200 per property
Property Transfer Fee                 £600 per property
In specie Portfolio Transfer Fee   £100
This is a significant amount of fees which would ordinarily be incurred. Furthermore, 
significant legal fees would ordinarily be incurred on transfer (for example, the standard fee 
for a transfer of a property is a substantial part of the fees Mrs B claims)  albeit I recognise 
Mrs Bs submission that they were higher in this case because of CBs actions  actions 
which, at least some extent, CB has recognised. Given that background I believe that CBs 
waiving of these fees is fair redress in this situation, notwithstanding that Mrs B submits that 
Mr B should not have needed to transfer at all.   In that respect, I do not seek to minimise the errors that have been made over several 
years. But I have to consider if they were so material that Mr B had no reasonable course of 
action other than to transfer  thereby incurring all the transfer fees. I appreciate Mrs Bs 
view, but I do not believe the errors have been to the extent that transfer was necessarily 
required - so as to incur all the fees. Transferring was a decision for Mr B to take and I can 
appreciate why he took that decision. But it was not necessitated by CBs actions and I dont 
believe all the fees should be waived as a result. What has been offered or waived so far is 
reasonable recompense.    
In terms of the VAT in respect of one of Mr Bs properties, I agree with the investigator that 
the evidence would suggest that CB fairly addressed this at the time. I also agree with her 
findings as to the tax code  I dont believe that CB made an error in this respect bearing in 
mind that it used an emergency tax code in in the specific circumstances. I do not believe 
that caused a loss in any event. In addition I dont believe the evidence suggests that CB 
was incorrect to pay income which did not match the rental income received by the SIPP  
bearing in mind the income request forms it had at the time.  
In summary, having considered all the evidence, I agree that the sums CB has agreed to 
waive or pay over time are a fair resolution to this complaint. 
My final decision
CB has agreed to waive or pay sums in respect of Mr Bs complaints that I believe are fair in 
the circumstances. I therefore do not uphold the complaint or make any award. If any sums 
have not been paid to Mr B he can contact CB direct to arrange payment or inform the 
investigator and she will inform CB of that.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
David Bird
Ombudsman