DRN-3713822
The complaint
Miss H complains 1Plus1 Loans Limited trading as 1Plus1 Loans irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss H was approved for a £10,000 guarantor loan by 1Plus1 Loans in December 2018. The 
term of the loan was 60 months with repayments of approximately £380 per month. The loan 
purpose was listed as being for debt consolidation and additional money for Christmas 
spending.
Miss H says this loan was irresponsibly lent to her. She says that 1Plus1 Loans did not 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks prior to the lending decision. Miss H says 
had 1Plus1 Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks it wouldve realised the 
loan was unaffordable to her and not lent.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I set out my provisional findings as 
below:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Hs 
complaint. 
1Plus1 Loans and Miss H are aware of our services approach to unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending complaints, so for the sake of conciseness I wont set the detail 
here. 
1Plus1 Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was 
responsibly lent to Miss H. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time 
1Plus1 Loans lent effectively required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks. These checks needed to assess Miss Hs ability to afford the loan and repay 
it sustainably over its term, without causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they shouldve been 
effectively proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration 
and total cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it wasnt sufficient for 1Plus1 Loans to just complete proportionate checks  it 
also had to consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair 
lending decision. This includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and 
ensuring repayments can be made sustainably without having to borrow further.
Finally, the fact this loan was secured by a guarantor in no way lessened the 
obligations which applied to 1Plus1 Loans. 
In this instance 1Plus1 Loans completed an affordability assessment on Miss H. This 
included searching Miss Hs credit file and asking her details about her income 
(which it says it verified electronically) and non-credit commitment expenses. Miss H 
declared that she was earning approximately £1,500 per month, and she lived with 
her parents. Her main non-credit expenses covered her travel and some minor 
utilities. 1Plus1 Loans added a further buffer of £200 to these expenses.
The credit file search showed that Miss H had approximately £14,700 in existing 
credit commitments. This was made up of a number of different credit products 
including credit and store cards, an overdraft and two unsecured loans. The 
unsecured loans  which amounted to about £8,700 - were listed as being 
consolidated by this loan. The credit file suggested that Miss H was maintaining 
these existing commitments well, with no missed payments or negative markers. The 
credit file demonstrated that Miss Hs credit cards had a relatively high level on them, 
amounting to around £4,500, and that she was utilising her overdraft facility to around 
£1,300.
1Plus1 Loans says these checks combined gave it a sufficient insight into Miss Hs 
finances and as such it did not need to complete further checks for them to be 
proportionate. Ive considered 1Plus1 Loans argument, but I disagree they were 
proportionate in this instance.
This loan was for a large amount of credit - £10,000  and was scheduled to be 
repaid over a significant amount of time  60 months. The repayment also amounts 
to a large proportion of Miss Hs stated monthly income. The information 1Plus1 
Loans gathered demonstrated that although Miss H had low non-credit commitments 
(such as rent or a mortgage), she was still utilising a large amount of credit. As noted 
above Miss H had four existing credit/store cards which had a combined balance of 
around £4,600 and an overdraft which was being utilised to around £1,300. Whilst 
these commitments were being well maintained, Im still satisfied that considering 
these commitments were still going to exist after the loan was completed, it wouldve 
been proportionate to gain a better insight into Miss Hs circumstances. And as such 
it ought to have done more to verify these commitments  as well as Miss Hs non-
credit commitments.
So, it follows that as 1Plus1 Loans did not do this, that Im satisfied it did not 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance. 
As 1Plus1 Loans didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks, I have to 
consider what further checks wouldve likely shown. Miss H has provided our service 
with copies of her bank statements for the period leading up to the loan being 
provided. In the absence of other information, I find the information provided in the 
bank statements to be persuasive and have used them to come to my provisional 
findings.
Miss H says that had 1Plus1 Loans completed further checks it wouldve seen the 
loan was unaffordable to her. 1Plus1 Loans says the loan was affordably lent. Based 
on what Ive seen so far, Im currently minded to say the loan was unaffordable to 
Miss H.
The statements show that Miss Hs income on average was lower than the £1,500 
which had been used by 1Plus1 Loans in its affordability assessment and was closer 
to around £1,150-£1,200 per month. 
The statements also show that Miss Hs outgoings were higher than used by 1Plus1 
Loans when it completed its affordability assessment. The statements show that Miss 
H was utilising her overdraft, and the majority of the payments that 1Plus1 Loans had calculated were present (such as the payments towards Miss Hs credit cards). 
However, it also demonstrates that Miss H had taken out a further unsecured loan a 
couple of weeks prior to this application. The monthly  repayment was approximately 
£180 per month (this loan would not have been consolidated by the 1Plus1 Loans 
loan). In addition to this, Miss Hs non-credit commitments  such as her direct debits 
 were higher than those which had been used in the application form including her 
car insurance, television and mobile phone subscriptions.
Whilst the statements also demonstrate that Miss H wasnt making any mortgage or 
rent payments, they do show that her disposable income was significantly lower than 
the amount calculated and relied upon by 1Plus1 Loans. And Im satisfied that this 
would not have left Miss H in a position for her to afford the repayments sustainably. 
At this point I do think its important for me to set out that 1Plus1 Loans was required 
to establish whether Miss H could sustainably make the loan repayments  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. This means that Miss H had to be able to make the payments without 
difficulty, out of her income or savings and without having to borrow further.   
The statements show Miss H was utilising her overdraft heavily; and that the income 
was not sufficient to place her in a credit position for any sustained period of time. 
And whilst utilising an overdraft may, in itself, not be enough for a case to be 
considered unaffordable, Im satisfied in this instance it suggested sufficiently that 
Miss H wasnt managing her finances in a sustainable way.
The statements suggest that Miss H was using other forms of credit to help 
supplement her income such as a further recent unsecured loan, and high utilisation 
of her credit cards. Taking all of this into account Im satisfied that it demonstrates 
Miss H was struggling to meet her existing repayments sustainably without having to 
borrow further or incurring financial difficulties. 
As such, it follows that Im currently minded to say, Miss H was not in a position to 
sustainably repay these additional funds. Im persuaded that 1Plus1 Loans shouldve 
reasonably come to this conclusion too had it completed further proportionate 
checks. As such my provisional decision is that 1Plus1 Loans should not have 
provided this loan to Miss H.
I asked both parties to respond with any further information or comments they wished to 
provide. Miss H responded saying she accepted the provisional decision. 1Plus1 Loans did 
not respond within the time frame required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that the findings in my provisional decision should remain. That 
is to say that Im upholding this complaint.
This is for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. Im satisfied on balance that 
1Plus1 Loans did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss H before 
approving the loan. Had it done so, Im satisfied that 1Plus1 Loans wouldve realised the 
loan was unaffordable to her, and not provided it. As 1Plus1 Loans didnt do this, Im 
satisfied on balance, it made an unfair decision to lend.Putting things right
Miss H has lost out by the actions of 1Plus1 Loans, as she has had to pay additional interest 
and charges. 
In order to put things right I require 1Plus1 Loans Limited trading as 1Plus1 Loans to:
To add up the total amount of money Miss H received as a result of having been 
given this loan. The repayments Miss H made should be deducted from this amount. 
a) If this results in Miss H having paid more than they received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then 1Plus1 Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss H.
1Plus1 Loans should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit 
file in relation to loan but that only needs to be done once the loan has been repaid. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to take off tax from this interest. 1Plus1 
Loans must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman