DRN-1545395
Complaint
Mr H says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading at the time as Egg) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr H took out the policy in 2004, at the same time as taking out a credit card online.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done that, I have not found that this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr H said he was recommended PPI by an Egg salesperson when he applied for his credit 
card at a stand. But Egg were an online bank, and from what we know they didnt make 
these kinds of sales in person. And theres no evidence of this meeting taking place. From 
what I can see, Mr H applied for his credit card online from start to finish. So while 
I appreciate Mr H has given us his best recollections, I think hes mistaken.
Ive looked at Mr Hs online application, as well as what we know about Canada Squares 
sales process from the time. From what Ive seen, Mr H was given an overview of what PPI 
was for and what it cost, and then was offered the choice to take it or turn it down. Neither 
choice was pre-selected, and he was free to choose either option and proceed. According to 
the electronic record of Mr Hs application, he chose the option to buy PPI. And it looks like 
he did this online, in his own time, without any involvement or pressure from a salesperson. 
So I think its most likely that Canada Square made Mr H aware he had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  even if, understandably, he no 
longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Canada Square didnt give Mr H tailored financial advice about buying PPI, so they didnt 
have to check if it was right for him. They did have to give Mr H enough information to decide 
if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Canada Square gave Mr H about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr H chose to take out the policy, which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks 
like Mr H was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. And he didnt have any other protection in case he was off sick or lost his job. So 
the policy could have really been useful for Mr H in case something went wrong.I understand that, later, Mr Hs employer closed and he went into temporary employment. 
But this was some months down the line, and I dont think that at the point of sale Mr H was 
planning or expecting to lose his job or move into temporary work. At the time of the sale, the 
policy covered him. So I dont think he wouldve changed his mind if given more details 
about the terms around temporary work, which wouldnt have been relevant to him then.
Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put Mr H off taking it 
out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman