DRN-2458378
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that British Gas Services Limited (BG) missed scheduled appointments for 
her annual boiler service.
What happened
Mrs H had HomeCare Four home emergency cover with BG, which included an annual 
boiler service. She took out the cover to extend the term of the warranty when BG installed 
her boiler.
Mrs H booked appointments with BG for her 2018 and 2019 annual boiler services. But she 
says BG rescheduled at the last minute, causing her inconvenience specifically around her 
work life and childcare considerations. 
BG says it attended the 2018 appointment as planned but the 2019 appointment was 
rescheduled due to emergency repairs taking priority. Mrs H was unhappy with the 
rescheduled appointment because it meant 15 months had passed since her last annual 
service. She felt that BG hadnt delivered the service she paid for and felt let down. Mrs H 
has since cancelled her policy.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Hs complaint because of the inconvenience caused when BG 
rescheduled the boiler service. BG had already offered Mrs H £30 as a gesture of goodwill, 
but our investigator thought a further £100 was warranted. 
BG didnt agree. It said that it had fulfilled the contract and it didnt offer a cash alternative for 
the boiler service. BG thought a total of £130 was excessive when it didnt think there had 
been any service failings. I issued a provisional decision in December 2020 explaining that I 
was intending to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint, but I dont think compensation of 
£130 is warranted in the circumstances. Ill explain.
Firstly, Mrs H complains that BG failed to attend boiler service appointments on numerous 
occasions over the years she had the policy. BG has already investigated, paid 
compensation, and issued a final response for her earlier complaints. Mrs H didnt bring 
those complaints to this service within the time allowed so, because of that, I can only look at 
the complaint about the appointments for 2018 and 2019. I understand Mrs H is aware of 
that.
2018 appointment
Mrs H says BG cancelled the appointment the evening before it was due to take place. BG 
says it has one record of an appointment and it was completed on schedule.
Ive looked at the account records BG provided and I can see that Mrs H booked the 
appointment online for the following day. BG recorded that the boiler service was completed 
as planned and it has no record of another appointment made for that year.
Mrs H provided a screenshot of a text message she sent on the day she made an 
appointment, confirming it was arranged for the following day. She also checked her boiler 
service records and confirmed that the boiler was serviced the following day as planned. Mrs 
H no longer has access to the calendar on which she recorded appointments, so there is no 
evidence to show that she made another appointment which BG failed to attend. 
The available evidence is clear  BG attended the appointment Mrs H made for the following 
day. Without any evidence from either party to suggest that an earlier appointment was 
made and cancelled, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that BG missed an appointment. 
So, Im satisfied that it attended the next day appointment as planned and that there is no 
evidence of a service failing.
I wont be asking BG to take any action in respect of the 2018 boiler service.
2019 appointment
Mrs H says BG contacted her the day before her planned appointment to reschedule the 
annual service to a few months later. She complains that 15 months passed since her last 
boiler service so BG failed to provide the annual service she paid for.
BG confirms that it rescheduled the appointment, which was because emergency repairs 
took priority. However, it says it completed the service in line with the terms of the policy.
For clarity, below is the policy definition of annual service: 
annual service
a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your gas boiler, 
appliance or central heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line 
with the relevant laws and regulations.
period of agreement
the day your agreement starts until your agreement runs out, as detailed on your 
statement.
And the General Conditions provide further information about the annual service and 
appointments. Ive included the relevant points here:
Annual service
Well send you or your authorised contact an email, letter, text message or call you to 
arrange your annual service. Well try to contact you up to three times. If we dont hear 
back from you after the third time or you are not at the property when our engineer visits, 
we wont try again and wont refund the cost of the missed annual service. You can still 
contact us at any time to book it. Your annual service may be more, or less, than 12 
months after your last service visit.
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), we 
prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service.
Reasonable timescalesWell carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know 
as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
I think the terms are clear  the annual service will be completed within each policy year, 
which may not necessarily be within 12 months of the last service. In other words, Mrs H 
should have one boiler service for each year of cover. And, BG may reschedule at busy 
times if there is a need for a more urgent appointment elsewhere. 
BG says it rescheduled Mrs Hs appointment because of high priority demand and I have no 
reason to doubt that. Its not possible to predict every eventuality and I think prioritising a 
vulnerable customer without heating or water is reasonable. I can understand why an annual 
service would be rearranged to create availability for an emergency and I dont doubt that 
Mrs H understands that too. So, I cant reasonably say that BG did anything wrong when it 
rescheduled Mrs Hs appointment.
What isnt clear, is why BG didnt rearrange the service for a date within the policy year. If it 
had, Id be satisfied that BG had acted in line with the policy terms which say it may be more 
than 12 months since the last service. But the new appointment two months later fell outside 
the policy year, which means BG failed to provide the service Mrs H had paid for. While the 
service was done the following year, and there was no detriment in terms of the boilers 
functionality, BG simply failed to meet the contract terms through no fault of Mrs H. So I think 
its right that BG needs to address this.
I can see that BG offered Mrs H £30 for the inconvenience of rescheduling the appointment. 
Had it arranged and completed the service within the same policy year, I wouldnt have 
expected BG to make any offer of compensation to Mrs H. Thats because it wouldve met 
the terms of the policy. As it didnt complete the annual service within the period of 
agreement, and therefore didnt provide the full service for which Mrs H paid, I think BG 
should compensate her for that element of the policy.
BG correctly pointed out that the terms of the policy do not provide for payment of a cash 
equivalent:
Cash in lieu
We wont offer you cash instead of carrying out an annual service, repairs or 
replacements.
That may be a fair term if Mrs H hadnt been available for appointments, or had asked for 
cash instead. But I dont think its fair to rely on that term when BGs actions meant it didnt 
fulfil the contract. In these circumstances, BG didnt provide the service for which Mrs H had 
paid.
The policy states that BG wouldve charged Mrs H £65 if shed had the annual boiler service 
done but then cancelled during the period of agreement. So I think its fair to use the same 
figure when deciding what BG should pay Mrs H. I realise that BG completed the boiler 
service the following year, but it wasnt done as part of the 2019 period of agreement and I 
think it should be recognising that shortfall.
I think BG should pay Mrs H £65 in total, which is the £30 already offered and a further £35 
to bring it to the value of the annual service. 
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs H because she will likely be thinking about 
the issues and frustration she experienced in earlier years. But I must make it clear that my decision is about the 2018 and 2019 appointments and I cant fairly ask BG to pay £130 for a 
single rescheduled appointment.
I said I was intending to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and I was minded to require British Gas 
Services Limited to:
pay Mrs H compensation of £65, which is made up of £35 in addition to the £30 it 
has already offered.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Both Mrs H and BG responded to say they accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For completeness, Ive looked again at the complaint. As both parties accepted my findings, 
and Im satisfied that the outcome is fair, I see no reason to make any changes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint.
British Gas Services Limited must: 
pay Mrs H compensation of £65, which is made up of £35 in addition to the £30 it has 
already offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman