DRN-4053553
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) is now responsible for the sale of this policy so Ive 
referred to HSBC as the seller throughout this decision. 
Mr J says HSBC mis-sold him the PPI. 
Background 
Mr J applied for a mortgage in 1996. At this time, a PPI policy was also sold to him. Mr J 
says that he was not aware that the PPI was optional, and he did not need or want it. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint but did not think there was enough evidence that 
the PPI had been mis-sold. 
Mr J didnt agree. He reiterated that he did not want PPI or need PPI. He says he was told 
that the PPI was obligatory, and he wouldnt have taken it had he known it was optional. Mr J 
added that he had business insurance so did not need PPI. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
In my provisional decision of 15 March 2023, I set out why I was minded to not uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. HSBC did not make any further comments. Mr J did not 
agree with my decision, and re-iterated he assumed that PPI was compulsory, and it was 
never explained to him that the PPI was optional. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case. 
Currently, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
A long time has passed since Mr J bought this PPI policy so there isnt much information 
available from the time of sale. Where there is limited information available, I have to decide 
what I think is more likely based on the evidence available, including Mr Js testimony. 
Mr J says he applied for his mortgage during a meeting with HSBC and PPI was sold to him 
at that time. He says HSBC told him he had to have it and did not make it clear the policy 
was optional. HSBC says the optional nature of the PPI would have been clear to him and it 
wouldnt have added PPI on to his account unless he agreed to it. It adds that the policy was 
cancelled in 1999  indicating Mr J was aware he could cancel the PPI and therefore it 
wasnt a compulsory product.  
As explained above, given how long ago this sale took place, all the documents relating to 
the sale are no longer available. I dont think thats unreasonable given how long ago the 
policy was sold. So I must decide what I think is more likely. 
Id like to re-assure Mr J that I have thought carefully about his testimony, and I appreciate 
his strength of feeling regarding this matter. But in order for me to uphold his complaint, Id 
have to be persuaded that a HSBC advisor told him an optional product was mandatory and 
he bought the PPI on that basis. With so little documentation available, Im afraid I havent 
seen or heard enough to make me think its more likely HSBC didnt make it clear that PPI 
was optional, or that Mr J didnt agree to have it.  
Given the length of time thats passed, neither HSBC nor Mr J know if HSBC recommended 
the PPI to him. If the policy was recommended, it places a greater obligation on HSBC as it 
had to assess the suitability of the policy on top of providing clear information about the PPI. 
However, even when assessing the case as an advised sale, I still dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. So, as it doesnt make a difference to the outcome, Ive assessed this 
case as an advised sale.  
This means Ive assessed the case on the basis that HSBC had to check the PPI was right 
for Mr J  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, he was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the main 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mr J also seems to have had a need for the cover. Mr J says he was entitled to at least 6 
months sick pay and he says he had other means of making his repayments. He has 
recently said he had business insurance. 
Busines insurance does not provide the same type of cover as PPI and the PPI policy 
wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay for up to 12 months if he was unable to work 
because of illness or injury. It also provided 12 months of cover for unemployment. This 
policy would have left any other means available for him to use on other essential 
expenditure at what could have been a difficult time financially. So I think the PPI couldve 
been useful for him.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I havent seen enough evidence that he didnt choose to take the cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment  the consequence of 
not being able to make repayments can be serious. Based on everything Ive seen, I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put Mr J off taking out the cover.
Overall, while I appreciate this is likely to be disappointing for Mr J, I dont think this policy 
was mis-sold. 
Mr J has mentioned he doesnt understand the relevance of the 2007/2008 dates our 
adjudicator mentioned in her view. I would clarify that HSBC has told us the mortgage with 
which this PPI was sold ended before April 2008 and therefore the rules relating to 
undisclosed commission do not apply. As explained above, the PPI was cancelled in 1999. If 
the mortgage was still active past April 2008, then different rules would apply so if Mr J 
believes the mortgage was still live past April 2008, he should let us know. 
Currently, I dont think HSBC needs to do anything further in relation to this PPI. As explained in my provisional decision, I do appreciate how strongly Mr J feels the PPI was 
mis-sold to him but Im afraid based on what Ive seen, I am not satisfied that theres 
sufficient evidence for me to conclude that it was mis-sold. In the absence of any new points 
for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision. With this in mind, for the same reasons explained in my provisional 
decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman