DRN-3801825
The complaint
Mr R complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his deferred defined benefit 
(DB) British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2018.
Mr R originally and primarily dealt with a firm called Eadon & King. At the time this firm was 
an appointed representative of Tuto Money Limited. Tuto Money Limited is therefore 
responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to 
Tuto Money.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In around October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter 
which gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr R was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Tuto 
Money which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances in November 2017 were broadly as follows:
Mr R was 54 years old, married and with grown up children. Mr and Mrs R owned a 
home with a £58,000 mortgage with around 10 years left to pay.
Mr R earned around £37,800 per year and Mrs R earned £7,200. After expenses he 
and Mrs R had a reasonable amount of disposable income left over each month. 
They had savings of £2,000. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Rs BSPS was approximately 
£133,019. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr R had also recently joined the TATA defined contribution (DC) pension scheme 
which had come about as a consequence of the BSPS closing to new contributions. 
This had around £4,000 in it at the time, but significant contributions were going into 
this every month from both Mr R and his employer. Mr R also two other historic 
pensions with values which were around £34,000 and £16,000 respectively. None of 
these pensions are being complained about here.
Tuto Money set out its advice in a suitability report dated 23 January 2018. In this it advised 
Mr R to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. 
Tuto Money said this would allow Mr R to achieve his objectives. Mr R accepted this advice 
and so transferred out several weeks later. In 2022 Mr R complained to Tuto Money about 
its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
However, Tuto Money didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr R later referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, Tuto Money said it hadnt done 
anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr R had at the time. 
Im sorry its taken so long for this complaint to reach this stage. Given the delay, I recently 
contacted both parties. Tuto Money, whilst still not accepting it acted unsuitably, has agreed 
to carry out a redress calculation. It says it has used the FCA calculator as instructed by the 
regulator and come to the conclusion that, in any event, Mr R hasnt lost any money. Tuto 
says this is because his personal pension now is worth more than the redress which would 
likely be applicable under the calculator the FCA has been directing firms to use.
Tuto also now accepts that the calculation should be as if Mr R had joined the BSPS2, 
instead of transferring away, and also that the age of 65 should be the comparator as this 
was the NRA of Mr Rs DB scheme. A retirement age of 65 was also mentioned in Tutos 
own documents from the time of the advice. I make these things clear because I dont think 
our investigator explained them very well. Ive also updated Mr R about these issues. 
However, as the complaint hasnt thus far been resolved informally, its time for me to make 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tuto Money's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Tuto Money should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Rs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Rs best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from Tuto Money. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses 
made to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Introductory issues
Id like to start by referring to the timeline of events. Ive already described above how 
members of the BSPS were given until 22 December 2017 to decide whether or not to join 
the BSPS2. 
However, Ive noted in this case, that although the suitability report was from 23 January 
2018, theres plenty of evidence showing the appointed representative of Tuto Money was 
engaging with Mr R well ahead of the deadline. For example, many of the key documents 
are dated at various points in late 2017, with the fact-find and meeting notes being dated 20 
November 2017. There was also a transfer analysis document (TVAS) which was dated 12 
December 2017. In my view, what this means is that many of the dealings Tuto Money had 
with Mr R were in 2017 and so before the hard deadline of 22 December 2017. 
I dont have any direct evidence which shows Mr R made a specific choice about what he 
wanted to do about his pension before the 22 December 2017 deadline. But as Tuto Money 
was involved in the advice process ahead of the date, I think it could and should have 
advised Mr R to make a choice and nominate moving to the BSPS2. This should have been 
done if only even as a precautionary measure, until its formal advice had been provided to 
him.
I should say that none of this really matters to the actual suitability of the advice  the advice 
to transfer away, as Ill explain below, wasnt suitable. But to be clear, redress is therefore 
due to Mr R as if hed transferred to the BSPS2 and the NRA of 65 should be used.
Why Im upholding the complaint 
Because I now know Tuto Money has agreed to carry out a loss calculation in line with the 
approach being promoted by the FCA, I therefore dont see the need to address the 
suitability of Tuto Moneys advice to Mr R in quite the same detail as I would normally. Tuto 
Moneys transfer advice was unsuitable for the following reasons:
At the age of 65, which in this case was the NRA, the critical yield (the investment 
return required to replicate the benefits available to him through the BSPS2) was 
8.92%. If using the PPF as a comparison, and still assuming a retirement at 65, the 
critical yield was 7.89%. Conversely, the discount rate was only 3.7% (for around 10 years to retirement). So, I think this was already showing that by transferring away 
from the DB scheme, Mr R was unlikely to be able to grow his pension to a degree 
which made transferring financially viable.
Ive kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. Ive also 
considered the higher costs associated with a personal pension and that Mr Rs 
limited knowledge of investing would have probably required on-going support and 
management from a professional adviser. I think these additional costs would have 
reduced potential growth even further. So, everything Ive seen shows  that when 
viewed from the point of advice  Mr R would likely receive lower pension benefits in 
the longer term as a result of transferring away from the DB scheme.
Ive noted too, that the transfer analysis said that in order to buy an annuity to provide 
benefits of equal value to those estimated by the existing DB scheme, the estimated 
fund required would be £222,747. Even to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of 
equal value to the estimated benefits of his existing scheme, assuming no spouses 
pension, no increases in payment and no guarantee at retirement, the analysis said 
the fund required would still be around £149,184. In my view, these figures provide a 
revealing window into the value of the scheme Mr R was being advised to give up. 
Ive also considered some projections Tuto Money used to help show that if he 
transferred out to a personal plan, the funds could last Mr M well into retirement. Its 
fair to say these were not comparing like-with-like. What Tuto was showing Mr M 
were comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB 
scheme. These also ran out at certain points, whilst his DB pension was for life.
Ive also seen nothing that showed Mr R required changing how his retirement 
benefits ought to be paid. He already had a new and more flexible DC pension with 
his existing job. This DC pension was being significantly contributed towards by both 
Mr R and his employer. Theres no reason why by retirement this DC pension 
couldnt have contained a significant sum. He also had two other DC pensions from 
previous jobs of reasonable values (£34,000 and £16,000). So, these other pensions 
would have afforded Mr R any flexibility he might have needed including his desire 
for some short-term family spending and some home improvements. These could be 
accessed in less than a year from the point of the advice. Mr R also seemed to have 
the ability to borrow short-term if he really needed to or borrow more on his 
mortgage. As interest rates were extremely low, these were much better options than 
irreversibly giving up a DB scheme.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr R wouldnt want to continue 
membership of a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was 
originally intended. Indeed, I think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, 
Mr R could have been in an agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing 
deferred DB scheme of reasonable value. This would contain all the guarantees and 
benefits that such schemes normally bring which tend to include a promise to pay a 
known pension for life. Significant indexation guarantees also existed within BSPS2 
and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On the other hand, he had three 
other DC pensions. So, if Mr R ever found he needed any flexibility, then hed be able 
to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr R had either the capacity or desire to exercise 
control over his funds. I think he would have found the complexity, scale and 
responsibility of managing over £133,000 of transferred funds to be onerous in the 
years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr R would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him money which his DB 
scheme didnt require from him.
Death benefits - the BSPS2 contained certain benefits payable to a spouse and 
children if Mr R died. Mr R was married so I think the value of these benefits were 
most likely underplayed because the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would 
have been useful to Mrs R if he predeceased her. Her own pension was modest, so I 
dont think Tuto Money made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was 
guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
I think the adviser told Mr R that hed be able to pass on the whole value of a 
personal pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone that he nominated. So the lump sum 
death benefits on offer through a personal pension were probably made to look like 
an attractive feature to Mr R. But this needed carefully explaining; the priority here 
was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. An obvious 
drawback with a personal plans death benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to 
anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner starts to withdraw his or her 
retirement income. To this end, if Mr R had lived a long life there could be nothing left 
at all in his personal pension plan. It also doesnt appear that Tuto Money took into 
account the fact that Mr R could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds 
remaining in his other three DC schemes. He could also have taken out a modest 
term life insurance policy if he wanted to leave a lump-sum legacy to his wife or 
children. At 54 this would still have been affordable. So, to this end, Mr R already had 
options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Its clear that Mr R, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his 
pension. However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think 
that Tuto Money should have reassured Mr R that the scheme moving to the PPF 
wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr R through the PPF 
would have still probably provided a significant portion of the income he would have 
needed at retirement, and he was still unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr R was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. Flexibility was not defined and in my view it was no more than a stock 
objective used to help justify the transfer. Valuable death benefits were being lost by 
transferring away and I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. 
I think Tuto Money ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for 
these reasons, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement. So I dont think it was 
in Mr Rs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension when he 
had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think Tuto Money should have advised Mr R to opt into the BSPS2. In light of 
the above, I think Tuto Money should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Tuto Moneys unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. Tuto Money 
should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
Tuto Money must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Tuto Money should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr R and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tuto Money should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts Tuto Moneys offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Tuto Money may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Tuto Money 
Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Tuto Money Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Tuto Money 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman