DRN-3709782
The complaint
Mr B complains that he unknowingly activated a feature on his Contracts for Difference 
(CFD) trading account which allowed him to open trades with one click of the mouse. He 
feels that Gain Capital ought to have warned him before he was able to activate this feature. 
As a result, he placed trades he didnt want to place and incurred losses he wouldnt have 
incurred.
What happened
Mr B opened a CFD account with Gain and in April 2020 opened a number of trades, 
including three on S&P500. Mr B says that while one of those trades he intended to open, 
the other two were mistakes due to him having activated, without him realising, Gains one 
click trading system. This system essentially allowed Mr B to place a trade immediately, 
without pulling up the bid and ask price, asking for confirmation or displaying a deal ticket.  
When he spoke to someone on 24 April 2020 to complain about this, he was offered a 
refund on one of the trades in the form of a credit and reinstatement of that trade. However, 
he says that Gain shouldve gone ahead and cancelled the other two trades as well. 
Gain looked into Mr Bs complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It explained 
that it had offered, as a gesture of good will, to reinstate the trade that he said he closed by 
mistake  and it did this. But it also said that in his call on 24 April it had explained how one 
click trading worked and what was on his account. It was for Mr B to decide, at that point, 
whether to keep those trades open or not. 
Mr B didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into his complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that the evidence showed that Gain had appropriately given information about the one 
click trading function, and how to activate it. She said that in order to activate it Mr B needed 
to go through a two-stage process, so she wasnt persuaded this couldve been done by 
accident. In any event, she said that once he spoke to someone on 24 April and they 
explained his account to him, it was for him to decide what to do and whether he wanted the 
trades he had opened to be closed or not. The investigator thought that Gain provided Mr B 
with clear information and it was for Mr B to then decide what to do with his account. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said that he felt Gain was using an over complicated misleading 
system for its own financial gain. He said that he fell victim to the one click function which 
he wasnt aware of, but this was only one of other unfair tactics which were used to over 
complicate trading and confuse traders. 
He pointed to Gains risk warning that the majority of its customers lose money which he 
said underscored what he was saying. 
Further, he said that the limited warnings and descriptions were woefully inadequate 
particularly in relation to the one click functionality and the dangers and financial 
consequences of using the system. He said that there was no information which went on to 
detail how or why any user would use that system in the first place. He said that the tutorial 
information did not cover the one click trading function. Mr B also said that it was clear he 
had inadvertently enabled this function because it was placed near the log out button, and 
he said no warnings were provided when he logged back in some time later. He asked that a 
detailed investigation be made, by accessing the system to experience the site and the use 
of the one click system. 
Mr B provided some additional submissions that in his view showed that Gain had taken a 
blas attitude to the care of its customers and that the system it was using was not fit for 
purpose and acted more like a gaming app than a trading account. He said it was as if the 
system had been purposely designed to cause financial harm. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and 
for broadly the same reasons. 
I also dont have much to add to whats already been said. I dont disbelieve Mr B when he 
says that he didnt intend to enable the one click function. I cant comment on why Gain has 
decided to introduce this option as part of its service, and it isnt for me to make a finding on 
that. 
I can see that Mr B has also raised other reasons why he is dissatisfied with Gains offering 
 but again, I can only determine the complaint thats been brought to this service. 
In particular, its important that I consider whether anything went wrong  and if it did, 
whether the business did what I wouldve expected to put things right. 
In this case, Im not persuaded Gain did anything wrong with the layout of its site. It seems to 
me that the one click function requires two steps to enable it, and Ive seen evidence of that. 
Im also persuaded that Gain offers information about this function  even if it isnt 
necessarily included in the tutorial that Mr B saw. Whilst I dont disbelieve that Mr B did not 
intend to activate this feature, I dont agree that this mistake was caused by Gain  and so in 
principle, Im not persuaded it was responsible for any losses this mistake caused. 
However, the key aspect of this complaint, in my view, is what happened when Mr B first 
raised this with Gain. Ive listened to the telephone call he had with the trader from Gain. I 
can see that he was told how the function worked, he was told how to turn it off, and there 
was a detailed discussion about which trades he opened  and crucially, which trades he 
wanted to close. In my view Gain gave Mr B the benefit of the doubt and attempted to help 
put Mr B back in the position he wouldve been before his mistake. 
During this call, I think the trader was clear in asking Mr B what he wanted to put things right. 
And the telephone call is in my view persuasive evidence that Mr Bs preferred outcome was 
to put the original trade back on. Mr B even says that he didnt mind having the other trades 
open, but he wanted the original trade to be reinstated as that had been profitable for him. 
At that point Im satisfied it was for Mr B to be clear with Gain about what he wanted to 
happen. He had an opportunity to ask for all his trades to be closed  but he didnt ask for that. Furthermore, he was clearly aware of what trades he had open as he referred to them  
so he could also have immediately closed any trades he wasnt happy with after that call, but 
he didnt do this either. Instead he was clear that he wanted the original trade he had closed 
by mistake to be reopened  this is what happened. This meant that he now had an 
unrealised profit on his account, which is what he was clear he wanted. And I can see that 
Gain also credited his account with around £122 - this amounted to the consequential losses 
caused by the two trades he said he had opened by mistake. 
Even if I thought Gain had done something wrong in relation to the one click function, the 
above is what I wouldve expected it to have done. By reinstating the original trade and 
explaining how the one click function worked (and crucially, explaining to Mr B how to turn it 
off), Mr B was back in the position he ought to have been in  managing the risk on his 
account himself. From that point on, the fact that he decided to leave additional trades open 
isnt something that I can fairly and reasonably hold Gain responsible for. And therefore, any 
losses which those trades caused were a result of Mr Bs decision to keep them open, and 
not something Gain did or didnt do. 
I acknowledge Mr Bs strength of feeling on this issue, but for the reasons Ive given, Im 
satisfied Gain hasnt done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman