DRN-4456448
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L are unhappy with the difficulties they experienced when trying to contact The 
Co-operative Bank Plc by telephone.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L raised a complaint with Co-op Bank because they were unhappy with the 
length of time it was taking for phone calls to be answered by them around the time that the 
Covid-19 pandemic emerged in 2020.
Co-op Bank responded to Mr L and Mrs L and apologised that theyd had cause to complain 
about their experience when trying to contact them by phone. Co-op bank also explained 
that the Covid-19 pandemic had had a significant effect on how they were able to operate at 
that time, which is why call waiting times had increased. Mr L and Mrs L werent satisfied 
with Co-op Banks response, so they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt Co-op Banks explanation and 
apology already represented a fair response to this complaint. Mr L and Mrs L remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L and Mrs L have explained that their dissatisfaction with the time it was taking Co-op 
Bank to answer the phone calls they were making to them began around the time that the 
Covid-19 pandemic emerged in 2020. 
In their response to Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint, Co-op Bank provided an explanation of how 
the Covid-19 pandemic had affected their operations at that time. This included that Co-op 
Bank experienced staffing issues because of staff member sickness or a need for staff to 
isolate such that they were unable to come into work. Additionally, at this time of staff 
shortages, Co-op experienced higher than usual call volumes from customers who were 
worried about their financial commitments to Co-op bank because the social restrictions put 
in place by the UK Government at that time meant that they were unable to work.
Co-ops explanation to Mr L and Mrs L seems reasonable to me. And while I accept that Mr 
L and Mrs L did encounter significantly longer call waiting times when they tried to telephone 
Co-op Bank at that time, I dont feel that this unfair. Rather, I feel that it was an unfortunate 
but understandable consequence of the unprecedented social and economic events that 
surrounded the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020.
Mr L and Mrs L have said that they feel that they were being bullied into accessing their 
accounts online. But Ive seen no evidence of any bullying as Mr L and Mrs L claim. And, at 
a time when it was understandably difficult for Co-op to meet the needs of their customers 
via telephone, it seems reasonable to me that Co-op would signpost their customers to their 
online platform as an potential alternative to calling them  on which it might have been 
possible for many of their customers to find a quicker resolution to their enquiries.
Ultimately, I feel that the apology and detailed explanation which Co-op Bank provided to Mr 
L and Mrs L in their response to their complaint does represent a fair and reasonable 
outcome here. And given the unprecedented social and economic circumstances in 2020, I 
dont feel that it would be fair or reasonable to hold Co-op Bank to the same service 
standards then that I would hold them to either before or after the effects of the pandemic 
had ended. Rather, as explained, I feel that any reduction in service standards at that time 
was unfortunately both understandable necessary, given the circumstances, and so isnt 
something I would consider instructing Co-op Bank to compensate customers for.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr L and Mrs L were wanting, but it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Co-op Bank to take any further or alternative 
action here. I hope that Mr L and Mrs L will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman