DRN-3451183
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AmEx) were reporting 
adverse information to his credit file.
What happened
Mr A contacted a credit reference agency (CRA) to ask why his credit score with them was 
lower than he felt it should be. The CRA told Mr A that AmEx were reporting adverse 
information to his credit file that was negatively affecting his score. Mr A wasnt happy about 
this, so he contacted AmEx and raised a complaint.
AmEx looked at Mr As complaint. They confirmed that they hadnt made any adverse 
reports in regard to Mr As maintenance and management of his AmEx credit account, and 
so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with AmExs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that AmEx had reported 
adverse information to Mr As credit file, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service can only consider aspects of 
a complaint that the respondent business, in this case, AmEx, has already had the 
opportunity to consider and respond to  as per the respondent businesss official complaint 
response, within which that business informs the complainant of their right to refer their 
complaint to this service, if they remain dissatisfied. 
In this instance, AmEx issued its complaint response on 19 January 2022, and this response 
only addressed the adverse reporting that Mr A felt AmEx had made to his credit file.
Its notable that in his later correspondence with this service, Mr A has referenced other 
aspects of his complaint that he would like this service to consider, including that AmEx 
didnt update his credit file in a timely manner.
I can appreciate Mr As position here, but given that these other aspects of his complaint 
werent considered and responded to by AmEx, and as such werent included in AmExs 
complaint response of 19 January 2022  in which AmEx informed Mr A of his right to refer 
the complaint under consideration to this service  this means that Im unable to consider 
those other aspects of his complaint at this time.
Instead, my review will consider the aspects of Mr As complaint that AmEx have already 
had the opportunity to consider and respond to themselves  as per the remit of this service. 
If Mr A wishes to continue to pursue the other aspects of his complaint as referenced above, 
I can only encourage Mr A to contact AmEx to raise those aspects of his complaint with them 
directly, so that they may have an opportunity to consider and respond to those aspects.
Regarding the adverse reporting on his credit file, its clear that AmEx were reporting a query 
marker on Mr As credit file from June 2020 until December 2021. The query marker was 
reported because Mr A raised chargeback claims against a merchant in June 2020, which 
meant that until those chargeback claims were resolved the balance of his account was 
unknown.
It's often the case in circumstances such as this that when the chargeback claim is settled, 
any query marker relating to that claim is removed and the correct status of the account 
reported to the credit file. But in this instance AmEx didnt remove the query marker, and it 
remained on Mr As account until December 2021, when Mr A requested its removal, 
because he believed it was adversely affecting his credit score.
I feel that is should be confirmed at this point that there is no one definite credit score that a 
person has. Instead, businesses and institutions use their own scoring model to determine a 
score for an individual based on their own assessment of the information present on that 
persons credit file. And while Mr A can obtain a credit score from a CRA, this CRA 
calculated score is for Mr As reference only and isnt seen by any credit providers to whom 
Mr A might apply.
In the case of query markers, its usually the case that these markers are considered as 
being neutral  i.e. the dont have any adverse or positive impact on how a credit score is 
calculated. And this is how AmEx themselves view query markers, which is why they 
explained to Mr A that they werent making any adverse reports to his credit file.
However, Im aware that the specific CRA with whom Mr A corresponded did recently 
change how they consider query markers, so that they do now have an adverse effect on the 
credit score as calculated by that specific CRA. This is a scoring decision taken by that CRA 
specifically, and so I can appreciate how Mr A, having corresponded with that specific CRA, 
would be concerned about the query marker and its impact on his wider credit score.
But as explained previously, its more commonly the case that query markers arent 
considered as having an adverse impact, and its also the case that any credit provider that 
Mr A might apply to for credit wouldnt themselves see the credit score generated by the 
CRA with whom Mr A corresponded, but would instead generate their own score for Mr A 
based on the information present on his credit file.
Additionally, while Mr A has expressed his concerns about his credit score, he hasnt 
provided any examples or evidence of his being declined credit by a credit provider 
specifically because of the presence of the query marker on his credit file.
As such, in consideration of all the information available to me, while I can appreciate how 
Mr A might be concerned, I feel that on balance its more likely than not that the presence of 
the query marker on Mr As credit file didnt have the wide ranging detrimental effect on Mr 
As potential ability to obtain credit as he believes here. And on that basis Im satisfied that 
the corrective action that AmEx has undertaken in removing the query marker from Mr As 
credit file already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to whats happened, such that I 
dont feel that any further action from AmEx is merited in this instance.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr A was wanting here, but it follows from the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint. I hope that Ive been able to help Mr A in regard to 
the concerns he had about the impact of the query marker on his credit file, and I hope Mr A will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman