DRN-3747483
The complaint
X is complaining about the way Sainsbury's Bank Plc handled a chargeback claim he made 
for a transaction on his credit card.
What happened
In November 2019 X bought some flights to travel on an airline  who I shall refer to as L. He 
was due to fly in March 2020. However, due to the impact of Covid-19, L cancelled the 
flights. X asked L to refund the cost of the tickets, but there was a delay in receiving the 
refund. So, in June 2020, X wrote to Sainsburys to ask it to refund the cost of the tickets. 
And he provided an explanation of what had happened.
Sainsburys wrote to X asking him to complete a dispute declaration form and to provide 
some further information  in particular evidence of who had cancelled the flights and when. 
And it asked him to send this by post which X didnt think was fair and thought he should 
have been able to send it electronically. Sainsburys says it didnt receive a response from X 
so chased a response in July and August 2020. X later called Sainsburys for an update and 
said he hadnt received anything that had been sent. So Sainsburys sent it again.
In September 2020 Sainsburys received Xs response, but said it needed the booking 
confirmation, proof that L had cancelled the booking and proof of correspondence with L. 
Sainsburys says it didnt hear back from X so in October 2020 it closed the claim. L later 
refunded the amount X paid for the flights, but X remained unhappy with the way Sainsburys 
had handled his claim and referred his complaint to this service.
In September 2022 I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the 
following:
Firstly Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in a lot less detail that what X and 
Sainsburys has provided. I assure both parties Ive read and considered everything theyve 
provided, but in this decision Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points. I dont 
mean any discourtesy by this but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant. The rules under which the chargeback can be pursued are strict 
and are set out by the relevant card scheme  which in this case was Mastercard.
Sainsbury's says it couldn't process the chargeback without all the relevant documentation. 
But I don't think this is generally true. Mastercard has set out what X would need to provide 
and has said he merely needed to provide a description of what has happened and evidence 
of his communication with L. That said, Sainsburys is also entitled to think about the 
prospects of success in presenting a chargeback. It said it could not present the chargeback 
without knowing when the flights were cancelled.
Mastercards rules also set out when a consumer can raise a chargeback. In this case, X 
was claiming he hadnt received a refund so the relevant chargeback code is credit not 
processed. Mastercard says X could raised a chargeback between 15 and 120-calendar 
days from the date on the credit documentation, or the date the service was cancelled.
Ive looked at the information X provided in June 2020 when he first contacted Sainsburys to 
raise the chargeback, but I dont think this sets out when the flight was cancelled. So I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Sainsburys to ask X to complete the dispute resolution form 
and to provide evidence of who cancelled the flights and when.
That said, I understand this request was made by post and X was required to respond by 
post. But, I think this request should have been made electronically  especially given the 
limited timescales to raise the chargeback. I also haven't seen anything to show Sainsbury's 
warned him of the timescales. I think, had it done all this, X would have responded sooner. 
However, I need to think whether X has lost out as a result.
The email correspondence X provided in September 2020 contained his written 
correspondence with L but there wasnt anything in here to say when L cancelled the flights. 
But they do show that L had cancelled the flights at some point before 18 March 2020. So I 
think the latest date that X could raise the chargeback against L was 16 July 2020. And its 
possible X was already out of time by the time he contacted Sainsburys in June 2020 as the 
email exchange suggests X had been trying for some time to get a refund. But, even if he 
was in time, he only had a few weeks to provide the information Sainsburys required. The 
information he provided Sainsburys doesnt set out when the flights were cancelled and Im 
also conscious that we still havent seen anything to show when L cancelled the flights. 
I accept that X has provided the information he can, but even if hed responded to 
Sainsburys initial information request, I dont think I can reasonably say that it would have 
made a difference because I think it was fair for Sainsburys to say the information provided 
wasnt enough to show that X was eligible to raise a chargeback claim.
I think Sainsburys could have handled Xs claim better  particularly in regards to the time it 
took to look at it and insisting to receive responses by post. However, I think Xs fundamental 
upset rests with the length of time it took L to process the refund and that Sainsburys didnt 
process the chargeback. I cant hold Sainsburys responsible for the actions of L and, as I 
said above, I dont think it was unreasonable that Sainsburys didnt process the chargeback. 
I do think it could have minimised the impact on X. However, I think the £50 in compensation 
its already paid is fair compensation in the circumstances. So I dont think it needs to pay 
anything further.
X didnt agree with my provisional decision and raised the following points:
He was unhappy I initially said he lived abroad but he said he lived in the UK at the time 
the event took place. However he said he travels a lot with work. And he believes 
Sainsburys chose to request information by post to make it difficult for people to process 
their claims. He maintains its unfair that emails werent allowed.
He said Sainsburys sent post to the wrong address which is why he couldnt provide the 
information requested in time.
He maintains that he provided all the information Sainsburys requested  including the 
information I said he didnt provide. 
He said, its not for him to know what information is required for a chargeback claim. He said he cant be held responsible if Sainsburys didnt ask for something. 
He thinks its a simple matter and should have been resolved quickly and easily. He said, 
he just wanted Sainsburys, as the card provider, to refund the amount he paid for a flight 
the airline cancelled. But instead it made his life very difficult.
Sainsburys responded to accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I apologise for my misunderstanding that I thought X lived abroad. But I assure him 
that this wasnt material to my decision-making, although I can understand Xs unhappiness 
in this respect. 
I appreciate and understand Xs level of frustration here. I do not dispute that there appears 
to have been a delay in him receiving the refund for the flight costs and that he lost out as a 
result. But, Im not looking at the actions of the airline here, but considering whether 
Sainsburys handled his dispute fairly.
As I said in my provisional decision, the rules around processing chargebacks are strict  
particularly in respect to the timescales when a chargeback claim can be raised. Ultimately, 
Sainsburys only had 120 days from the date the service was cancelled to raise a 
chargeback. I acknowledge X says he provided everything that was asked for, but 
Sainsburys did ask for evidence of when the service was cancelled and I havent seen 
anything to show he provided this  the emails he provided dont set this out. The emails do 
show L cancelled the flight, but dont set out when they were cancelled. And this is critical to 
understanding whether the chargeback claim can be processed.
The key point I raised in my provisional decision is that [the emails] do show that L had 
cancelled the flights at some point before 18 March 2020. So I think the latest date that X 
could raise the chargeback against L was 16 July 2020. And its possible X was already out 
of time by the time he contacted Sainsburys in June 2020 as the email exchange suggests 
X had been trying for some time to get a refund. I recognise X feels strongly about this, but 
he hasnt provided anything for me to say what I said was unfair here. Sainsburys are 
entitled to consider the chargeback rules to assess whether theres prospects of success in 
pursuing it. Based on the information X provided at the start, I dont think it was unfair for 
Sainsburys to want further information to assess whether the claim would succeed.
I do agree with X that Sainsburys should have used more than one method of 
communication  i.e. it wasnt fair or reasonable for it to insist in things being sent by post. 
But I have to think about whether this caused X to lose out. Ultimately, for the reasons I set 
out in my provisional decision, Sainsburys was entitled to request further information from X 
and to date I cant see X has provided anything to show when L cancelled the flights. And 
Sainsburys did ask him to provide this.
In this decision, its not for me to decide whether X was entitled to a refund or not, but to 
consider whether Sainsburys handled the chargeback claim fairly. As I said, Sainsburys 
should not have only communicated by post, but I think the outcome would still be the same, 
even if it had emailed him as it should have done. Ultimately I dont think it acted 
unreasonably in not processing the chargeback claim. And I remain of the opinion that the 
£50 in compensation that it paid X for the distress and inconvenience its caused is fair.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that the £50 in compensation that 
Sainsbury's Bank Plc has paid X for the distress and inconvenience its caused is fair. And I 
dont award anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman