DRN-3434166
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with AWP P&C SAs decision to decline her claim.
What happened
Mrs T made a claim on her private medical insurance policy following her diagnosis of lung 
and breast cancer. Her claim for breast cancer treatment was eventually accepted, however 
the lung cancer treatment was declined. She would like that claim accepted. Mrs T also 
complained that AWP initially refused to pay for associated consultation costs for her breast 
cancer. 
AWP said it declined the lung cancer treatment because it considered this a pre-existing 
medical condition and explained that the moratorium underwriting terms meant that it 
wouldnt cover this type of claim unless shed been symptom free for two years after the 
policy started in August 2021. It also initially declined to pay her consultation fees for her 
breast cancer because the medical professional involved was a respiratory specialist and 
therefore not suitably specialised in this particular area of oncology. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He explained that AWPs decision to decline 
cover for the lung cancer was fair because there was enough medical evidence to show that 
this was a pre-existing medical condition. Thats to say that there was evidence of an 
abnormality discovered in a scan taken in 2018. He acknowledged the discovery wasnt 
malignant at that time, however, it became of concern in 2021 and a diagnosis was made 
following a biopsy in October. The investigator highlighted the policy was taken out two 
months earlier and so was caught by the policys definition of a pre-existing condition. 
Mrs T disagreed with his assessment. She provided several arguments about why she 
disagreed with the outcome, but, for simplicity, Ill distil those arguments in my summary 
below. Mrs T said;
She wasnt diagnosed with lung cancer following the 2018 scan which showed a new 
faint glass infiltrate (or nodule) and that any suggestion to the contrary was wholly 
inappropriate;
Our investigator and AWP are not qualified to make the determinations they have 
and so she fully refutes their assessments and decisions on her complaint;
Her medical team responsible for her care are among the elite within the oncology 
field and that their opinions must be respected. Mrs T further referred and 
reemphasised that there was no diagnosis of lung cancer in 2018 and therefore the 
moratorium underwriting criteria doesnt apply in the circumstances and;
The further consultation with her preferred specialist related to her breast cancer was 
eventually accepted by AWP which further demonstrates our investigators 
ineptitude because hed decided that AWP need not cover those associated costs.
And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it because I dont think AWP declined cover 
unfairly. I should also say that I agree with the reasons already given by our investigator and 
so I disagree with Mrs Ts assertion that hed unfairly rejected her complaint, or that he failed 
to get to the crux of the issues at play here. 
I wanted to acknowledge the wealth of information provided by Mrs T in support of her 
complaint. Im not going to address everything here as part of my final decision. Ive taken 
this conscious decision not to do so because I believe the key elements of this complaint are 
at risk of being missed because of Mrs Ts reluctance to acknowledge or accept the outcome 
of our investigation. And so, I think it best to keep this simple in the interest of clarity. 
The industry rules, set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) say that an insurer must not 
unreasonably reject, or avoid paying a claim. They also say that there should be no 
unreasonable delays whilst handling a claim. And so, like our investigator, this is the test Ive 
applied in this case. Ive not found any evidence thats persuaded me that AWP has 
breached these rules. I say that because I have carefully considered AWPs reasons for 
rejecting Mrs Ts lung cancer claim, Im satisfied this was done in conjunction with the policy 
terms and in reliance of medical evidence. Ill explain why. 
The policy terms say;
Any medical condition (including symptoms and undiagnosed conditions and other related
conditions) that you experienced in the five years before your cover startedwill not be 
covered unless agreed by AWP under the moratorium clause of your policy
The policy terms confirm that any pre-existing condition that needs regular treatment or 
medical advice will never be covered.
Pre-existing conditions are defined under your policy as any disease, illness or injury for 
which you have received medication, advice or treatment or you have experienced
symptomswhether the condition has been diagnosed or not in the five years before the
moratorium date.
Related condition is defined as a symptom, illness or injury which reasonable medical 
opinion considers is the cause of, or is arising from, the illness or injury that needs 
treatment. 
The policy terms make it clear that AWP wouldnt cover any claims for treatment of any pre-
existing conditions. The only caveat to that is if there had not been any medical advice, 
treatment or medication or whether Mrs T had been asymptomatic from that condition for a 
two-year period after the policy had started. And thats not happened here as the policy 
began in August and the diagnosis followed but two months later, rather than the two years 
stated by the policy. In addition, Im also satisfied that Mrs T was suffering symptoms of her 
COPD illness and that those symptoms are closely affiliated with the symptoms of her lung 
cancer. Ive also seen medical evidence that suggested that Mrs T suffered with a 
progressive cough and sputum which Im persuaded demonstrates there were also 
symptoms present. 
In 2018, Mrs T was told about the new nodule that appeared in her right-side lung. I agree 
that this was not diagnosed as cancerous at that time. But the medical evidence Ive seen satisfactorily explained that this nodule did become cancerous three years later. It was also 
advised, in the absence of a diagnosis in 2018, that the nodule need to be monitored moving 
forward. Ive considered this against the policy terms and Im satisfied this qualified as a pre-
existing medical condition as there didnt need to be a diagnosis at that time. Mrs T was 
given medical advice about the nodule and this continued yearly until it became cancerous. 
Therefore, AWP hasnt declined her claim unfairly and doesnt need to do anything more in 
respect of this complaint. I also noted that AWP, following our investigators recommendation 
that it need not pay the consultation fees regarding Mrs Ts choice of consultant, 
subsequently authorised these costs. For the interest of clarity, I wouldnt have asked it to do 
that because I agreed with its original decision and for the same reasons. The specialist 
must be reasonably affiliated with the particular area of medicine. And so, AWP declined the 
request for the consultation with the respiratory specialist in relation to a breast cancer 
consultation but offered to cover the cost for an oncologist more suited to that area of 
expertise  which I thought fair. It was only following additional information being provided by 
Mrs T that AWP was then able to reassess its position and I think its entitled to do that. 
Mrs T made further representations regarding perceived delays in handling her claim. But 
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that supports her position here. AWP declined her 
claim within weeks of receiving it. I understand that wasnt the answer Mrs T wanted and that 
prompted her to challenge AWPs decision. There was a lot of correspondence traffic that 
followed and that was largely driven by Mrs T. However, Im satisfied that AWP responded 
within good time. I found no evidence of unreasonable delays. 
I should note, however, that I found that Mrs Ts tone of communication fell below what I 
considered to be an acceptable level. This was also acknowledged by AWP when it 
reminded Mrs T to be mindful of her communication style. But there was no evidence of 
AWP doing the same, nor treating her unfairly in terms of phone communication or 
correspondence. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman