DRN-3194291
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him after he lost money to a scam.
  
What happened
Mr C says that he was looking to buy a car and came across an advert on a social media 
platform for a 2015 Nissan Juke. Unbeknownst to him, the seller was in fact a scammer.
Mr C carried out some research on the car, and the dealership selling it, and subsequently 
sent over £3,000 to buy the car in August 2020. He was told the car would be delivered 
within 1-2 days. When the car didnt arrive, Mr C realised something had gone wrong and 
the website for the dealership no longer existed. He reported the matter to Monzo. It didnt 
refund Mr C and when responding to his complaint explained it didnt think he had taken 
sufficient steps to check who he was paying before the payment was made. It also explained 
it had contacted the recipient bank on being notified of the fraud, but no funds remained.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that, under the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM), Monzo should reimburse customers who are 
victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances; and he didnt 
think those circumstances applied here. (Although not a signatory of the CRM, Monzo has 
agreed to adhere to it.) The investigator upheld the complaint as:
He wasnt persuaded Monzo had provided an effective warning when the 
payment was requested.
Mr C had carried out research on the car through legal channels. He also 
checked the dealership selling the car on Companies House which showed it 
was an active company. He therefore had a reasonable basis for belief that he 
was paying the person he was expecting to pay, for genuine goods or services, 
and it was legitimate.
He thought the transaction was uncharacteristic for Mr C and/or his account and, 
as it triggered Monzos fraud systems, it should have done more to intervene in 
the payment.
Monzo has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, it says:
Its warning was effective.
The price for the car was too good to be true given it was over 50% less than other 
cars of the same model with similar mileage being advertised.
It also doesnt think it should have intervened further with regards to the payment 
itself.
The case has been referred to me for review and determination.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 1 October 2021 in which I explained why I was minded to 
uphold the complaint  but only in part. I set out my provisional findings below.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a payment services provider is expected to 
process payments that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which apply to this complaint, and account terms and conditions. 
But where a customer made a payment as a result of the actions of a scammer, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for a payment services provider to reimburse its 
customer, even though the payment was authorised.
In considering this, I have taken account of whether Monzo ought to have reimbursed Mr C 
under the provisions of the CRM, and whether it ought to have done more to protect him 
from potential financial harm from fraud. The CRM also places a level of care on customers 
such as Mr C, so I have considered whether he met this.
The CRM
The CRM requires payment services providers to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams like this, in all but limited circumstances. It 
is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one or 
more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM.
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but these arent applicable here. 
Was there an effective warning?
The CRM sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address risk and the consequences of not doing so. As a 
minimum the CRM sets out that an effective warning should be understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific.
Monzo has provided a copy of the warning that was provided to Mr C. And it has told us that 
he spent around 10 seconds on the warning screen before proceeding. I think most 
reasonable people would agree thats not very long. But I have nevertheless considered 
whether it was effective or not.
The warning said:
Remember:
X Bank transfers arranged online or over social media are at higher risk of fraud
X Bank transfers arent protected in the same way as card payments
Pay by card if you can.
You might not be able to get your money bank if this does turn out be a scam. Find a 
legitimate seller who lets you pay by card.
Im not persuaded the warning met all of the requirements to be considered an effective 
warning. The bold headings are clearly meant to draw attention to the warning, as are the 
bold Xs. Although the warning does refer to transfers arranged online or over social media 
being at higher risk of fraud, I dont think this goes far enough to explain why. For example, it doesnt explain that fraudsters use social media platforms to pose as legitimate sellers 
advertising goods or services which can appear genuine. And explaining bank transfers 
arent protected in the same way as card payments doesnt explain there is very little 
protection or chance of recovery with that type of payment. Indeed, it could be said this 
suggests there is protection but not the same as is provided by card payments. Im not 
persuaded telling a customer they might not get their money back goes far enough; in reality 
there is very little chance as fraudsters tend to withdraw transferred funds in very short time. 
I therefore dont find the warning impactful.
Overall, Im not minded to find the warning was effective.
That said, I am aware that when corresponding with Monzo, Mr C admitted seeing the 
warning. He said to Monzo:
Even though I noticed the online warning notice about fraud when I made the 
payment, the criminal had put a disclaimer stating that I should ignore the warning 
and hit continue and that some banks dont share common database.
However, the disclaimer by the fraudster said:
2. If your bank states that it cant verify the details of this account, just ignore the 
warning and hit continue (Some banks dont share a common database but we are 
certain that the bank details are correct, we dont make mistakes).
The warning Mr C was provided was not in relation to the bank being able to verify the 
account details, so the disclaimer doesnt appear relevant to the warning Monzo provided. 
So its unclear why Mr C simply followed the instructions given by the scammer. Whilst this 
doesnt affect my findings that the warning wasnt effective, I think it fair to take this into 
account when deciding what Monzo needs to do to put this right (see below).
Did Mr C have a reasonable basis for belief?
Under the CRM Monzo can choose not to reimburse Mr C if it doesnt believe he took the 
requisite level of care to ensure he had a reasonable basis for belief that the 
person/business he was paying was legitimate and for genuine goods or services. It isnt 
enough for Mr C to believe that he was paying a legitimate business for genuine goods or 
services, he had to have a reasonable basis for belief. And its here that I disagree with 
some of the investigators findings.
Mr C found the advert for the car on social media. And I understand that Mr C checked the 
business on Companies House and was reassured as the business was found and was 
active. I also understand Mr C carried out checks on the car with the DVLA and satisfied 
himself this was a genuine car. So Im satisfied Mr C took some steps to reassure himself 
that he was proceeding with a genuine purchase.
However, I dont think that goes far enough. The dealership that was purportedly selling the 
car appears to have been a genuine dealership; but it isnt clear whether the website Mr C 
says he visited was a genuine website or whether it had been fabricated by the fraudster.
For example, it isnt clear if the car Mr C was interested in was also advertised on the 
website or whether Mr C even checked this.
Mr C told us that he asked to see the car but was told this wasnt policy. It isnt clear why Mr 
C accepted this explanation. It doesnt appear from what we know that this dealership was 
online only, as some car sellers are, such that this would appear to be a legitimate policy. 
And refusing to allow goods to be viewed before buying is, in my judgment, self-evidently suspicious. Its simply not the sort of restriction that legitimate traders impose, as it 
is plainly poor customer service (and arguably contrary to the provisions of the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015).
Im also aware that the car was being sold considerably under retail value  by about 40% at 
the time. That was a huge difference compared with similar makes and models in that 
market at that time. Mr C says he did query why the car was so cheap and he was told it was 
wholesale. But I dont find this a plausible explanation  I question why a car dealership, 
presumably in business to make a profit, would sell goods to retail customers at wholesale 
prices. I agree with Monzo that the price was simply too good to be true and, in the absence 
of any further questioning by Mr C (and satisfactory answers from the seller) about this, I 
dont think he took sufficient care such that Im satisfied he had a reasonable basis for belief 
that he was buying genuine goods from a legitimate seller.
In addition to this, the suggestion by the seller to ignore a banks warning and just hit 
continue, also ought to have raised suspicions; a legitimate business is highly unlikely to 
advise a potential customer to ignore a banks warnings  it simply wouldnt be necessary.
Under the CRM where a business has failed to provide an effective warning, but the 
customer hasnt met the requisite level of care, each party must accept equal responsibility. 
In these situations the CRM requires the payment service provider to reimburse 50% of the 
losses.
I am satisfied that would be a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint  as I have 
found Monzo didnt provide an effective warning, but that Mr C also hadnt met the requisite 
level of care to ensure he was paying a legitimate business for genuine goods. He gave little 
time or attention to his banks warning, giving greater credence to instructions from a 
stranger (the scammer) despite the anomaly in the purported reason to ignore and hit 
continue. And he was far too willing to accept at face value representations from the 
scammer that, in my judgment, most reasonable consumers would regard as inherently 
implausible. Such factors justify shared blameworthiness for the loss that sadly resulted.
Putting things right
Im currently minded to uphold this complaint in part, and require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
reimburse 50% of Mr Cs losses, being £1,540.80 (less any funds since recovered); 
and
it should add 8% simple interest per annum from the date it declined to reimburse Mr 
C to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
 
Mr C told us he didnt have any further information to provide in response to the provisional 
decision. Monzo disagreed that it didnt provide an effective warning. It said that I hadnt 
considered the warning in its entirety and I hadnt commented on the final screen which did 
warn the customer that it was almost impossible to get the money back. 
We asked Monzo to provide an actual copy of the warnings that Mr C would have seen, 
including the final screen, which hadnt previously been shared with us. Monzo provided that 
information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, including the responses to my provisional findings, my decision remains 
that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Whilst Monzo has shared more information about the warnings Mr C would have seen 
before proceeding with the payment, including a warning we hadnt been provided with 
before, Im still not persuaded the warning was effective. 
I accept, now, that Mr C would have been told that it would be almost impossible for Monzo 
to get the money back once the payment was made. So I accept the warning is stronger 
than I originally found.  
I also accept the warning was on a red background and had stop dont pay and Its very 
likely this is a scam written across the top. But Im mindful that Mr C only spent 10 seconds 
on this screen. 
Mr C was arranging a bank transfer over social media which is covered in the warning. But 
Im not persuaded that of itself means the warning was specific enough to be effective. I say 
this because Mr C was buying a car from someone purporting to be a car dealership. The 
name used was that which applied to a legitimate car dealership at the time. There is nothing 
within the warning that speaks of fraudsters using social media platforms to pose as 
legitimate traders or that the goods or services they advertise can appear genuine when they 
arent. It follows that I remain of the view, the warning isnt effective as it wasnt specific 
enough to the scam Mr C fell for. 
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
reimburse 50% of Mr Cs losses, being £1,540.80 (less any funds since recovered); 
and
it should 8% simple interest per annum to that sum, from the date it declined to 
reimburse Mr C to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman