DRN-2134998
The complaint
Mrs M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance policy 
(PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs M took out in November 2001.
The PPI was sold to Mrs M by a third party, but AXA have accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep things simple.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA didnt respond so the complaint has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint because:
Mrs M has told us she worked less than 16 hours at the time of sale. To be eligible to 
claim under the PPI policy Mrs M would have to be working more than 16 hours per 
week. With Mrs Ms employment at the time I think its unlikely she would have been able 
to claim the benefits the policy offered.
I dont think Mrs M wouldve bought the policy if shed realised, she wasnt eligible to claim 
the benefits that the policy offered, and I havent seen enough that AXA did provide clear 
information on this. AXA has said Mrs M hasnt clarified her situation with it. It says it would 
require further evidence from Mrs M about her employment. I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask Mrs M for further information about her employment. She has been 
consistent about her circumstances and the sale was many years ago. 
So, it follows that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I think she has lost out because of what AXA 
did wrong and so it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs M would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs M would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs M 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs M 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman