DRN-2348983
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) made an error when setting 
up a new bank account which caused him distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr B opened a new account with Nationwide in branch. He provided all the required 
documentation and assumed the account had been set up. However, on the day he was due 
to get his first wage in a new job, he realised that his Nationwide app wasnt working. He 
contacted Nationwide, who told him that his identification hadnt scanned properly, when 
hed opened the account. He was asked to revisit the branch to rescan his identification in 
order to activate the account and allow him access.
Mr B says that Nationwide made no attempt to contact him to advise him of its error. He says 
that on the day in question, after recently starting a new job, he was very stressed about the 
situation. He had to ask his new employer to take some time off work to visit the branch 
during business hours. He was very worried that there would be a problem and the account 
wouldnt be available. This in turn would mean no access to his wages which could 
potentially lead to further issues with rent and bills.
Nationwide has acknowledged its mistake, and its apologised. Nationwide has paid £50 to 
Mr B for the distress and inconvenience its error has caused, and a further £10 to cover his 
travel expenses to return to the branch to activate the account.
But Mr B doesnt think £50 is an adequate amount of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered because of Nationwides error. So, he complained to this service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint and concluded that Nationwide had done enough to 
compensate Mr B.   
However, Mr B doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint or recommending further compensation. 
Ill explain why.
Anti-fraud and anti-money laundering procedures mean that customers need to prove their 
identity when they apply to open a bank account. And its up to the bank to have processes 
in place to accept a customers identification, so the process can be as hassle free as 
possible.
However, sometimes an error can occur. And thats what happened here. An error occurred 
when Nationwide scanned Mr Bs identification, and his account was never activated, as the 
identification couldnt be validated.
I fully appreciate that Nationwide shouldve picked this up sooner. And I can see that it took 
a telephone call from Mr B for the error to be highlighted. But once it was highlighted, 
Nationwide had no option but to ask Mr B to come back in with his identification. And when 
he did Nationwide rectified its error, using the rescanned documentation and the account 
was then activated.
However, I also appreciate how stressful and frustrating this error must have been for Mr B. 
He had started a new job, and he had responsibilities, both in his workplace, and financially. 
And if this error had gone unnoticed, there would likely have been further consequences, 
where Mr B might not have received his wages, and bills couldve gone unpaid.
But Mr B did notice there was an issue and contacted the bank who asked him to attend in 
person to rectify that issue. Nationwide has accepted that it didnt get things right and 
because of that its apologised and compensated Mr B with £50. It also added a further £10 
to cover any travel expenses he may have incurred. 
But as Mr B doesnt think that was enough to put matters right, Ive given this some further 
thought and considered the impact this has had on Mr B in these specific circumstances. Ive 
taken on board all of Mr Bs comments about what happened. And I know he feels strongly 
about the issues raised in his complaint. But, having thought carefully about the impact all of 
this had on him, Im satisfied that the £50 compensation Nationwide paid is a reasonable 
amount thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that he would have been 
caused. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what I would have told 
Nationwide to pay. I understand Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, but I think what 
Nationwide has paid is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman