DRN-2667179
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont add their son to a joint account 
in the same manner as an older account already held by them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have a severely disabled adult son. They hold a joint account with Barclays 
which has been open for approximately 20 years which is in their names but is listed as 
being regarding their son. 
Mr and Mrs L wanted to open another account using the same convention. However, 
Barclays explained that they werent willing to do this and provided alternative options. 
Barclays also noted that the existing account appeared to have been opened in error as it 
went against their conventions but confirmed that they were happy to leave the account 
open as closing it at this stage would cause detriment to Mr and Mrs L and their son.
Mr and Mrs L werent happy that Barclays wouldnt open a new account on the basis that 
they wanted and they werent satisfied with any of the alternative options that Barclays had 
proposed. So, they made a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, but they confirmed that they were unwilling to 
open an account on the basis that Mr and Mrs L wanted. So, they didnt uphold the 
complaint. But they did offer Mr and Mrs L £100 compensation for the inconvenience they 
would incur in having to find an alternative that was acceptable to them.
Mr and Mrs L werent satisfied with Barclays response, so they referred their complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Barclays 
were within their rights to decline Mr and Mrs Ls request, so they didnt uphold the complaint 
either.
Mr and Mrs L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that in their complaint response to Mr and Mrs L dated 30 November 2020, Barclays 
explain as follows:
Either Mr L [the son] should have been added on as a joint party or we should have 
requested legal documentation authorising you to manage his financial affairs.
This stipulation seems reasonable to me, and Barclays have confirmed that they havent 
received a copy of any documents from Mr and Mrs L which would permit them to have an 
account in the name of their son and manage his affairs  although I acknowledge that this 
was an state of affairs Mr and Mrs L were seeking to avoid.
Mr and Mrs L dont consider that any of the alternative options proposed to them by Barclays 
meet their needs as well as the account being set up in the manner that they have requested 
would do. But it doesnt follow this that Mr and Mrs Ls preferred option should be met by 
Barclays, and Im satisfied that Barclays are entitled to make the decision that they have in 
declining that request.
Mr and Mrs L have expressed their dissatisfaction that Barclays havent provided a thorough 
enough explanation for why they have declined their request. However, it seems clear from 
the information available to me that Barclays have explained the reasoning behind their 
decision  and that it is essentially that which I have italicised above. 
Mr and Mrs L have intimated that they would like a deeper explanation than Barclays have 
so far provided here. But I must note that Barclays are under no obligation to provide a more 
thorough explanation that the one that they already have here, and this service would not 
expect Barclays to do so.
Mr and Mrs L are concerned that Barclays have been unable to explain why the account 
opened approximately 20 years ago was opened on a basis that Barclays now consider 
incorrect. I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Ls frustrations here, but I wouldnt expect Barclays to 
have a clear record of the rationale for the opening of an account that took place so long 
ago. And it must also be noted that any explanation - if one were available - would have no 
bearing on the decision by Barclays not to open a new account in a similar manner.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr and Mrs L were wanting here. But ultimately, 
its for Barclays to decide whether they are willing to open the account in the manner that Mr 
and Mrs L want. And because Im satisfied that the reasons that Barclays have provided for 
not agreeing to Mr and Mrs Ls request arent unreasonable, I cant conclude that Mr and 
Mrs L have been treaty unfairly by Barclays here, and so I wont be upholding this complaint.
Finally, I note that Barclays made an offer of £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs L in their 
complaint response letter. Barclays may choose to honour that offer, if they havent done so 
already, but it isnt an instruction of this service that they do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman