DRN-3973010
The complaint
Ms R and Mr T complain that Santander UK Plc made errors when it added Ms R to Mr Ts 
account that resulted in fraudulent activity on the joint account. Ms R and Mr T are unhappy 
with the redress offered by Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Ms R and Mr T visited a local Santander branch in early March 2022 to convert Mr Ts 
existing account into a joint account with Ms R. Santander sent out a new debit card and 
personal identification number (PIN) to Ms R to an incorrect address. Shortly after this, 
several attempts were made to pay for goods and services using the card. These were 
blocked by Santander, but £120 was withdrawn from a cashpoint. When they became aware 
that the debit card was being used, Ms R and Mr T complained to Santander. Santander 
responded to the complaint and apologised that a bank error meant that the debit card and 
PIN had been sent to an incorrect address. Santander confirmed it had changed the 
addresses for Ms R and Mr T and that it had issued a new card and PIN to Ms R  which 
had been since received. Santander offered to pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
the errors had caused and a further £50 to cover the cost of Ms R and Mr T registering with 
the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (Cifas) for two-years.
Ms R and Mr T didnt feel that the redress offered was fair and reasonable and, through a 
representative, brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and thought that the offer made by Santander was a fair and 
reasonable one. Ms R and Mr T asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint as they 
felt the redress offered was unreasonable and didnt reflect outcomes in similar cases 
decided by a court.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Santander made errors when recording the address for Ms R and Mr T, 
and this resulted in the debit card issued to Ms R being used fraudulently. So, I intend 
focussing my final decision on whether the redress offered by Santander to Ms R and Mr T is 
fair and reasonable as this is now the crux of the complaint brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. I understand that Ms R and Mr T will be disappointed, but Ive decided 
that the offer Santander made to resolve the complaint is a fair and reasonable one in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. I will now explain why.
The final response to the complaint was addressed to Ms R only. I appreciate that the 
representative acting for Ms R and Mr T feels this response only dealt with Ms Rs complaint, 
but I dont think its reasonable to conclude this. The complaint was made by Ms R who is a 
joint account holder with Mr T, and I think it clearly explains the actions Santander would 
take to resolve the complaints raised, included several refences to Mr T and provided an 
apology that I consider was reasonably intended for Ms R and Mr T.
Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me anything other than the debit card and PIN for 
Ms R were sent to the wrong address. Im satisfied that this alone would have caused Ms R 
and Mr T some distress and inconvenience and it would have come as a shock at the time  
not least because the card provided some of Ms R personal data and some other account 
information could have been accessed when the card was used at a cashpoint. Regardless 
of this Im satisfied that Santander dealt with this as a potential data breach for both Ms R 
and Mr T. This is clearly explained in Santanders final response and its what I would have 
expected Santander to do.
When Mr T became aware of fraudulent activity on the account, he made Santander aware. 
Mr T says he spoke with the fraud team who highlighted that the fraudulent activity was on 
the card issued to Ms R. Its doesnt seem unreasonable to me that a bank investigating a 
potential fraud would ask questions about who had used the card, but in this case, 
Santander were quickly satisfied Ms R hadnt used the card and re-imbursed the next day 
the £120 withdrawn from a cashpoint.
Santander said it would pay Ms R and Mr T £25 to register with Cifas which is a member-
based fraud prevention agency with a large database. The database records information to 
protect financial businesses and their customers against fraud. Individual consumers can 
approach Cifas directly, for services such as a "protective registration" if they feel theyre at 
risk of identity fraud. In the circumstances of this complaint, I think it was reasonable for 
Santander to offer to pay for this.
Ive noted the information the representative provided about other court cases, but the 
Financial Ombudsman Service makes decisions based on the circumstances of each 
complaint. So, in all the circumstances of this complaint Ive decided that the offer Santander 
made to Ms R and Mr T was a fair and reasonable one. Santander made several errors 
regarding the addresses for Ms R and Mr T, but when it became aware of the errors it 
quickly took steps to change the addresses, promptly refunded the £120 that had been 
debited from the joint account and provided feedback to the staff involved. In my opinion, 
there was a relatively short- period when Ms R and Mr T would have been worried about the 
account and then inconvenienced until a new debit card had been received. Therefore, Im 
satisfied that Santanders offer to pay them £500 for the distress and inconvenience was a 
fair and reasonable one.
I appreciate that Ms R and Mr T may have lost some confidence in Santander and can 
understand they would be worried about future fraudulent activity. However, in my opinion, 
Santanders offer to pay each of them £25 for a two-year protective registration with Cifas 
was also a fair and reasonable way to mitigate any further stress about future incidents 
related to this matter.
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £550 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Santander UK Plc should 
pay Ms R and Mr T £500 for distress and inconvenience and £50 for the to apply for 
protective registration with Cifas. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman