DRN-3213373
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC acted unfairly when it started to charge him 
monthly fees for a packaged bank account, called a Platinum account, which he had held for 
many years without paying fees. He thinks that Lloyds should continue to provide the 
Platinum account to him free of charge. 
What happened
Mr R has told us that he has held the Platinum account for around thirty years. Lloyds 
usually charges its customers a monthly fee for this account and provides several potential 
benefits in return. However, for many years it didnt charge some customers a fee if they 
kept over a certain amount, (usually £4,000) in the account. It called this arrangement a fee-
waiver scheme. Mr R usually qualified to have his monthly fees waived under this scheme. 
In 2021, Lloyds decided to end the fee-waiver scheme. It wrote to Mr R and told him it would 
start to charge him fees. However, Mr R believes that Lloyds had previously told him on 
numerous occasions that providing he kept the relevant amount in his account, he would 
never have to pay the monthly fees. He therefore thinks its unfair for Lloyds to start to 
charge him.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Rs complaint and thought
that Lloyds had acted reasonably when it withdrew the fee-waiver scheme from him. The 
adjudicator didnt recommend that Lloyds should stop charging Mr R monthly fees for his 
Platinum account.
Mr R didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to
review his complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Rs complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr R and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the case and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Lloyds decided to remove the fee-waiver scheme from its Platinum account customers 
during the early part of 2021. It was allowed to make changes like this provided it told its 
customers what it was planning and gave them reasonable choices. It has sent us a copy of 
the letter it wrote to Mr R about the change. The letter was entitled The fee-waiver on your 
Platinum account will soon end. It told Mr R that Lloyds would remove the scheme in 
September 2021, told him what the monthly fee would be and invited him to review whether 
the Platinum account would still be right for him. With this letter, Lloyds seems to have met 
its main obligations to Mr R. However, the crux of Mr Rs complaint is that he believes Lloyds 
told him personally that he would never have to pay fees if he kept the minimum amount in 
his account. In other words, he thinks that Lloyds agreed that the fee-waiver scheme would 
always apply to him. 
Firstly, I would like to say that I would not normally tell a bank it could never apply monthly 
fees to a packaged account. And nor would I expect Lloyds to make such an indefinite 
agreement with an individual customer, although I fully accept it could do so if it wanted. So, 
the point at dispute is whether there is sufficiently compelling evidence for me to decide that 
Lloyds made such an agreement with Mr R.
Mr R has presented consistent evidence to support his case. Hes told us that from day 
one... numerous managers and members of staff... (told him that)... this account will never 
be chargeable to (him) as long as the account is still available and certain criteria are met.
Hes added that when Lloyds investigated his complaint for itself, it said that it would honour 
such an agreement if he had it in writing, but not if he only had it verbally. I understand that 
neither party has found a written agreement.
Clearly, I wasnt present at any of the discussions between Mr R and Lloyds employees, 
and I cant tell for sure what Lloyds said, or didnt say, to him about the fee-waiver scheme. 
However, if it told him that it would always apply the scheme to him, it would have restricted 
its commercial discretion and gone against its usual practice of retaining the right to vary its 
offer to its customers. I fully accept that Mr R is doing his best to remember what happened 
and that Lloyds may well have discussed the fee-waiver scheme with him, but Im not 
convinced it agreed to provide the scheme to him indefinitely. I think it may well have told  
him that the scheme was still available at various times, but as this would have been true, it 
would have been a reasonable thing for Lloyds to say. I think Lloyds was within its rights to 
withdraw the fee-waiver scheme from Mr R. I doubt it agreed he could always have it. 
I have not seen any detailed comments from Lloyds itself about Mr Rs statement that it said 
it would honour a written agreement but not a verbal one. I have only seen a request it made 
to Mr R to see a copy of any such written agreement if he had one, along with a comment 
that it might then consider an appeal. So, I do not know its position about Mr Rs statement. 
However, for clarity, I would like to say that in my view the key factor in this complaint is 
whether an agreement existed, irrespective of whether it was in writing or verbal. Had I been 
convinced that there had been a verbal agreement, I would have treated it the same as a 
written one. 
In recent correspondence with us, Mr R has made several further points to explain why he 
thinks Lloyds should continue to apply the fee-waiver scheme to him. For example, he has 
highlighted that he has been a loyal customer for many years, that there are probably only a 
very small number of people in his position and that Lloyds has reduced its cost by 
changing some of the previous benefits to cheaper versions, so can afford to continue the 
fee-waiver scheme. I accept the sincerity of all Mr Rs points, but they do not change my 
view that Lloyds was entitled to withdraw the fee-waiver scheme from him and did so in a 
reasonable way. 
So, in summary, Im satisfied that Lloyds treated Mr R correctly when it withdrew the fee-
waiver scheme. I doubt there was an agreement that Lloyds would always apply it to his 
account. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint about
Lloyds Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to continue to apply the fee-waiver scheme to his 
Platinum account. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman