DRN-3234467
The complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wont reimburse him the money he paid to 
what he says was an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events. 
Mr C was made aware of an investment opportunity. In November 2019, he spoke with a 
representative of a trading company. Ill refer to the trading company as B. The 
representative persuaded Mr C to open a trading account with B and make an initial deposit 
of 250 Euros. Following the call Mr C realised hed likely fallen victim to a scam. He noticed 
the payment was for around £214 and appeared on his account as having been taken by 
another business D rather than B who he believed hed been dealing with. 
Mr C immediately contacted Capital One and asked for the payment to be stopped. Capital 
One explained the transaction could not be stopped because it had been authorised and 
was still pending. They said that once the payment posted to his account, he would be able 
to dispute it. At Mr Cs request they cancelled his card and reissued a new one. When the 
merchant took the payment (against the original card) Capital One transferred this to the 
new card. Capital One also recommended Mr C contacted B directly, which he did. But he 
says they refused to return his money. 
Mr C went on to dispute the payment. Capital One asked for some further information which 
Mr C was unable to provide. Ultimately they declined to offer a refund. Mr C complained and 
when Capital One maintained their position, he referred his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators didnt recommend that it should be upheld. As he disagrees, Mr C has 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prevention
Once a credit card payment has been authorised and is being processed it cant be 
cancelled by the card issuer. So I dont think Capital One acted unreasonably when they 
informed Mr C of such and referred him to the merchant directly. I also think it was fair and 
reasonable for them to transfer the authorised payment across to the balance of the new 
card when it was re-issued at Mr Cs request. 
Ive considered the British Standard Institute (BSI) PAS 17271 (2017)  Protecting 
Customers from Financial Harm from Fraud Code. But in the context of Mr C and his credit 
card account  I dont think a payment of the value here (around £214)  was so unusual 
that its reasonable to expect Capital One to have done more or to have intervened at the 
time it was made. Capital One arent required to vet merchants that receive card payments, 
and I dont think they reasonably could have identified that the card payment Mr C 
authorised was being made as the result of a potential scam at the time. 
Mr C has also mentioned the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) which is a voluntary 
scheme through which victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) fraud are often able to 
receive reimbursement from the banks involved. But unfortunately, this doesnt apply to 
payments made on credit cards. So, I cant use the CRM as the basis to ask Capital One to 
do more. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme which in this case is run by Mastercard whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Capital One) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Our service has clarified this matter with Mastercard directly, it explained that if a cardholder 
authorised and engaged in a transaction with the intent to participate in gambling, 
investment or similar services, then cardholder-dispute chargeback rights are restricted 
regardless of whether the activity was illegal or brand damaging. It went onto explain that 
issuers have no chargeback rights related to the use of these chips or value, unspent chips, 
or withdrawal of such value, or on any winnings, gains or losses resulting from the use of 
such chips or value. In short, Mastercard consider the purpose of the Mastercard transaction 
to load funds into the gambling or investment account and not what activities are 
subsequently done with the funds. 
Albeit the scheme does allow for a chargeback if it can be evidenced that the funds never 
credited the trading account. But this was not the nature of Mr Cs claim. His claim was that 
hed fallen victim to a scam and was unable to withdraw his funds. This isnt something the 
Mastercard scheme provides protection against. 
I appreciate that Mr C provided Capital One with the information that he had and which he 
was able to obtain. And despite it not being Mr Cs fault that he was unable to provide further 
evidence, this doesnt change the fact that a chargeback in these circumstances was very 
unlikely to succeed. So, based on all the above I think declining to raise a chargeback was a 
fair and reasonable exercise of Capital Ones discretion. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
Section 75 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation against a creditor as they would have against the supplier of goods or 
services. For a section 75 claim to apply there are a number of criteria that need to be met, 
one of which is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement between the parties.Ive seen a copy of Mr Cs credit card statement which shows the payment in November 
2019. Mr C was therefore responsible for repaying the amount owed to his credit card 
provider and so he is the debtor. As Mr Cs Capital One credit card was used to make this 
payment, Capital One was the creditor. And from everything Ive seen it is clear B was the 
supplier. However, the payment Mr C disputes wasnt made to B  it was made to another 
merchant D. And as Ive seen no evidence linking D (who Mr C paid) to the supplier B, Mr C 
doesnt have the required DCS agreement in place to make a section 75 claim. So I dont 
think Capital One acted unfairly by not offering a refund under section 75. 
Summary
Im sorry that Mr C lost money. But the crux of the matter here is that once a payment is 
authorised, it has effectively already been paid away. There are limited opportunities to 
pursue a refund through chargeback and the CCA. In these circumstances, I dont think 
Capital One did anything that prevented Mr C getting his money back. And for the reasons 
explained above, I dont think they ought to have prevented the payment in the first place. As 
such, Im not going to tell them to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman