The complaint
Mr C complains Vitality Health Limited has unfairly declined a travel insurance claim. Mr C is 
represented in this complaint by his father, but to keep things simple my decision will refer 
only to Mr C, and not his father.
What happened
In 2019, Mr Cs mobile phone was stolen while he was on holiday. As he had travel 
insurance cover with Vitality, he made a claim for the stolen phone under the policy.
Vitality declined the claim. Mr C didnt think this was fair so he complained to Vitality. In its 
final response, Vitality said it had correctly declined the claim because the police report 
confirmed the phone had been stolen from Mr Cs hand after he had fallen asleep in a 
nightclub. Vitality said it must decide claims in line with the policy terms and conditions, 
which says it wont pay claims for:
theft or loss of belongings when the belongings were left unsecured or unattended
at any time unless deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or left in your locked
accommodation
theft or loss of belongings where any items have simply been forgotten or left behind
(e.g. items left in the seat pocket of an aircraft), or where reasonable care has not
been taken to avoid the theft or loss of the items
Vitality said it declined the claim because it didnt consider Mr C being asleep with the phone 
in his hand in a busy public place to be taking reasonable care to avoid theft or loss. It said 
the terms and conditions give unattended in bold because the policy defines unattended as 
When you are not in full view of, and not in a position to prevent unauthorised interference 
with, your belongings or vehicle. Vitality said it thought Mr C wasnt in full view of his phone, 
or in a position to prevent unauthorised interference with it.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. He said he didnt think it was fair for Vitality to 
decline the claim on the basis the phone had been unsecured, unattended, forgotten or left 
behind, because though he had fallen asleep momentarily, he was physically holding the 
phone. So he didnt think those words were valid descriptions of the situation, and he 
thought Vitality was hiding behind rhetoric.
After looking into things our investigator said that because Mr C had fallen asleep, he wasnt 
in full view of his phone and had no reasonable prospect of being able to prevent any 
unauthorised interference with it. So it was fair and reasonable for Vitality to decline his claim 
on that basis.
DRN-1744488Mr C disagreed. He said the reasoning given presumably meant that if someone was on 
holiday and their possessions were stolen from their hotel room whilst they were asleep, a 
claim would be declined as it would be argued the possessions were unattended. And he 
said this was a genuine theft claim supported by a police report. As Mr C disagreed, his 
complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding this 
complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr C but I'll explain my reasons.
The circumstances of Mr Cs mobile phone being stolen are not in dispute, as both Mr C and 
the police report of the theft say the phone was taken from Mr Cs hand after he fell asleep in 
a nightclub. I acknowledge that Mr C says this is a genuine theft claim, and Ive not seen that 
theres any dispute about that. 
What is in dispute here is whether Vitality fairly declined Mr Cs claim. Vitality says it declined 
the claim because the phone was unattended (as defined within the policy terms), and Mr C 
didnt take reasonable care to avoid the theft of his phone. Mr C says that while he had fallen 
asleep, he was holding the phone and so it wasnt unsecured, unattended, forgotten or left 
behind. 
To consider whether Vitality acted fairly in declining the claim, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of Mr Cs policy - they set out the circumstances under which any claim will or 
wont be paid.  Ive seen that the policy says a theft claim will not be paid when belongings 
are left unattended unless they are locked away, or where reasonable care has not been 
taken. The policy defines unattended as When you are not in full view of, and not in a 
position to prevent unauthorised interference with, your belongings or vehicle . 
And Ive considered the circumstances of the theft, as set out in the police report and in what 
Mr C told our service when he referred his complaint to us. I acknowledge Mr Cs point that 
his phone wasnt unattended because he was present and holding his phone when it was 
stolen. But Mr C was asleep when his phone was stolen. Since he was asleep, I think its fair 
to say Mr C wasnt able to see his phone and wasnt in a position to prevent the 
unauthorised interference with his phone. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Vitality to 
conclude that Mr Cs phone met the policy definition of unattended when it was stolen. 
I also acknowledge the argument Mr C has made regarding a hypothetical claim being 
declined if possessions are stolen from a locked hotel room while their owner is asleep. I 
note the policy conditions Ive set out in the background to this decision allow claims from 
locked hotel rooms. However, I can only consider the circumstances of the particular 
complaint that has been brought to me. And given those circumstances, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Vitality to conclude Mr C didnt take reasonable care to avoid the theft of his 
phone.
For these reasons, Im satisfied Vitality hasnt acted unfairly in declining this claim, so I wont 
be asking it to do anything further here.
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman