DRN-4435805
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) damaged their boiler and 
property. They would like BG to cover the cost of the new boiler and repairs.
Mr and Mrs C had home emergency insurance underwritten by BG. The policy is in joint 
names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr C throughout my decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I understand this will 
be disappointing, but I cant say the evidence supports their view that BG caused the 
damage.
My role is to decide whether BG handled Mr Cs claim promptly, in line with the policy, and 
fairly in all the circumstances. That includes looking at whether BG reasonably relied on the 
evidence available to it. Its not within my remit to determine the cause of the damage.
I wont comment on each and every piece of information available to me. Ive looked at 
everything, so Ill address the overall complaint and comment on the individual points which 
help me explain the reasons for my decision. 
Mr Cs overriding complaint is that BG set the temperature too high on his boiler and failed to 
warn him of the potential risks of sludge in his boiler. Consequently, hed like BG to pay 
around £8,000 to cover the cost of ceiling repairs and a new boiler after his exploded.
BG accepted thered been some service shortfalls and offered Mr C £150 by way of apology. 
It also refunded the payments that Mr C had made since the boiler broke. But BG said it 
wasnt responsible for the damage and that the boiler had come to the end of its life.
The evidence persuades me that BG wasnt at fault and that it reasonably rejected Mr Cs 
request for payment of a new boiler and associated repair costs. My reasons are as follows:
BG completed annual service checks and the records show that it had been telling 
Mr C that his boiler needed replacing. The renewal documents support this.
Mr C said BG never told him that, but I havent seen any evidence to support what he 
says. Evidence wouldve been the annual service checklist, left with Mr C at the end 
of each visit, which confirms the action taken and any recommendations.
The same checklist wouldve advised Mr C if BG had been aware of any sludge and, 
likely, a recommendation to flush the system. I havent seen any evidence that BG 
was aware of sludge in the system.
BG confirmed the annual boiler check doesnt include testing the water, so I accept it 
would have no reason to know if thered been sludge present.
Mr C said the policy doesnt cover damage caused by sludge if BG had told him 
about it. As it hadnt told him, he thinks BG should, therefore, cover the cost of 
damage. I dont agree. Thats because the policy is explaining sludge removal isnt 
covered. But if it is identified, perhaps during the course of a repair, and BG tells Mr 
C about it, then BG wouldnt cover any subsequent damage caused by the sludge.
Here, although BG hadnt identified any sludge, that doesnt mean it must cover the 
cost of the boiler damage.
The evidence indicates that the boiler had reached the end of its life. I understand the 
boiler was at least 28 years old. On average, boilers remain useful for around 15 
years. 
Mr C said the boiler was working and BGs annual checks confirm that. The service is 
to determine whether the boiler is operating safely, but it doesnt mean the boiler will 
continue to do so or that it is operating efficiently.
The engineer reports provided by independent third parties state that, ultimately, 
sludge and the high temperature setting caused the boiler damage. I dont think this 
is disputed. But the reports dont say that BG was responsible for the damage.
BGs reports state that it turned down the temperature setting, which seems plausible 
given that Mr C initially reported it was too hot.
One report suggests that repairs and maintenance may have been done incorrectly 
because there were different coloured parts on the boiler. However, BG explained 
that manufacturers use different colours to identify their own parts and it doesnt 
affect the functioning of the boiler. I have no reason to doubt that.  
Moving on, Ive decided that BG paid a reasonable amount in compensation for the service 
shortfalls it acknowledged as follows:
It had to visit multiple times.
The matter was not resolved as quickly as it couldve been.
The poor customer service Mr C felt hed received.
The overall distress and inconvenience he experienced.
I see no reason to ask BG to increase the offer because:
It told Mr C the outcome of its investigation within two months of the boiler being 
damaged beyond repair.
The evidence doesnt show that BG caused the damage.
BG refunded to Mr C the premiums hed paid from the date the boiler stopped working. Ive 
looked at the policy and Im satisfied that BGs offer was in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. I see no reason to ask BG to do any more in respect of this.Overall, the evidence shows that BG didnt handle Mr Cs claim as quickly as it couldve 
done, but the compensation payment of £150 is reasonable and in line with what Id expect. 
In respect of the damage to Mr Cs boiler, I havent seen anything in the evidence which 
persuades me that BG did anything wrong. More likely than not, the boiler stopped working 
because it had reached the end of its useful life rather than being damaged by something 
BG did. Therefore, I wont be asking BG to do any more in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman