DRN-4107584
The complaint
Miss B complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) irresponsibly granted her a 
hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2022 Miss B acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
MotoNovo. Miss B was required to make 61 monthly repayments of £223.50. She had also 
paid a deposit of £2,200 from the sale proceeds of her previous car. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £15,611. 
Miss B says that MotoNovo didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable for her. MotoNovo didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought MotoNovo didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss B didnt agree and said MotoNovo should have done more to find out about her 
financial situation and personal circumstances. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, MotoNovo says it checked to see that Miss Bs application met 
its lending criteria. I havent seen details of the credit check it carried out so I cant say for 
certain what the results of the search showed and whether or not it was proportionate. Even 
though it looks like MotoNovo took steps to carry our checks that were proportionate before 
granting the finance, I cant say for certain that it was. 
I also cant see that MotoNovo verified Miss Bs income before approving the finance. Given 
the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, I 
think it would have been proportionate for it to have done so to ensure it was affordable. 
Similarly, I havent seen anything to show that MotoNovo asked Miss B about her regular 
expenditure during the application. I think it would have been proportionate and reasonable 
for it to have verified this information. I say this because Miss Bs credit report shows 
evidence of a default with some credit around 2  years before the application, in 
August 2019. Miss B also told us about another default, which had occurred in September 
2021, in relation to utility payments, although I havent seen full details about this. But as it 
doesnt show up on the full credit report Miss B sent us for some reason, so Ive no way of 
knowing if MotoNovo saw it at the time.
I cant be certain what Miss B would have told MotoNovo had it asked about her regular 
expenditure. I dont think it necessarily needed to request bank statements, but in the 
absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in 
Miss Bs statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed two months of Miss Bs bank statements from before the agreement. Ive seen 
that her income from her work and state benefits was typically around £2,000. Given that the 
benefits she was receiving were to help with her day-to-day living costs by supplementing 
her regular earned income, it is appropriate that I take them into account when deciding 
whether lending is affordable. Having carefully reviewed the bank statements, I agree that 
her monthly living costs and other committed expenditure worked out at around £1,000, 
covering household costs such as food, clothing and petrol. For these reasons, I dont think 
MotoNovo acted unfairly when approving the finance application and that it was likely to be 
affordable.
Miss B says she told the dealership where she bought the car that she was or was about to 
go on maternity leave and so was on a reduced salary. She says she also mentioned it to 
MotoNovo when she received her welcome phone call from them. I havent seen this 
recorded in the available paperwork Ive seen from the time for the agreement. But in any 
event, as Ive explained above, her bank statement details suggest that the finance was 
likely to be affordable, with Miss B having enough disposable income to meet the monthly 
cost of the agreement.
Miss B has also told us about being diagnosed with a health condition and that MotoNovo 
ought to have been aware of this. But again, this isnt something I would expect MotoNovo to 
be aware of unless Miss B told them about it, so it wouldnt have affected the decision to 
provide Miss B with the agreement. I would however expect MotoNovo to exercise 
appropriate forbearance and take steps to explore all available options with Miss B in 
relation to her agreement once it becomes aware of any difficulties Miss B might be having 
in relation to meeting her monthly payments. 
Finally, I see Miss B has queried why the sum shown for the amount she owes under the 
agreement differs to that shown in the credit report. This is an issue that Miss B will need to 
take up with MotoNovo herself. If it appears that an error has been made then I will expect 
MotoNovo to take the relevant steps to ensure the credit report is rectified. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman