DRN-1868563
The complaint
In summary, Mr G has complained that Santander UK Plc didnt tell him about the changes 
to the terms of his 123 student account, when it was converted to a 123 graduate account. 
He believes that as it demanded repayment of his agreed overdraft without informing him, 
this has affected his credit file.
What happened
In 2016 Mr G opened a student bank account. The application form recorded his graduation 
date as 1 July 2019. 
Mr G used the agreed overdraft facility on his 123 student account. He says he contacted 
Santander in June / July 2019 and asked if he could keep his account. Santander says it has 
no record of Mr G contacting it at that time. 
Mr G complained to Santander after he was told by it that he needed to repay the overdraft 
that he had on his 123 graduate account. Santander told him that his overdraft had been 
removed as a result of him not paying any money into his account. The terms of the account 
required him to do so. It went on to say that it had written to him about the overdraft, but he 
hadnt contacted it. 
Mr G said he hadnt been made aware of any changes to the terms of his account and he 
hadnt been receiving post. Santander put a block on the account in November 2019 when 
post it had sent Mr G, was returned to it. And it texted Mr G asking him to contact it.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs concerns and explained why she wasnt upholding his 
complaint. As Mr G didnt agree with what the investigator said, the case has been passed to 
me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The terms and conditions of the student 123 account say that for the interest free arranged 
overdraft to be available, a minimum of £500 a term needs to be paid into the account. They 
also say that when the account holder ends their studies, the 123 current account will be 
transferred to a 123 graduate account.  
Mr G has said that he contacted Santander in June / July 2019 asking if he could keep his 
123 student account. So, Im satisfied that he was aware that the account was changing to a 
graduate 123 account when his course came to an end.
What the student 123 account terms and conditions dont say, is what the terms and 
conditions of the 123 graduate account will be. Those were contained in a separate key 
features document for that account. Santander has said the key features for both accounts 
were available on its website. 
Im satisfied from what Santander has said, that in this particular case, it didnt provide Mr G 
with details of the key features for the 123 graduate account. I also think its unlikely that 
these would have been provided to Mr G when he first took out the 123 student account, as 
he wouldnt have had a graduate account for a number of years in the future. And as the 
terms and conditions could have changed between Mr G taking out the 123 student account 
and it converting to a graduate account when he finished his studies; it seems to me more 
likely than not, that Santander would have provided a key features document when the 123 
student account was converted to a 123 graduate account. And Santander hasnt been able 
to provide evidence in this case that it did provide Mr G with key features documentation for 
the 123 graduate account. 
So, for these reasons, Im not satisfied that Mr G would have been aware of the terms and 
conditions of the 123 graduate account and the need to pay his primary form of funding into 
that account. But I dont think this failing by Santander would have made a difference to the 
account being blocked and the overdraft facility being withdrawn. Ill explain why. 
From what Mr G has said, he was aware that his 123 student account would be converting to 
a 123 graduate account. And he should have been aware from the terms and conditions of 
his 123 student account that his arranged overdraft would be withdrawn when his studies 
ended. So, I think this should have alerted Mr G to question Santander as to what would 
happen to the agreed overdraft facility, he had with the 123 student account, if he hadnt 
heard from Santander after the account had been converted to a 123 graduate account. 
It seems to me therefore that even if Santander had sent Mr G the key features for the 
graduate account, this wouldnt have made a difference to what happened to his agreed 
overdraft facility and the running of his account. I say this because Mr G has said that he 
didnt receive any communications from Santander. And in November 2019 Santander 
received returned post it had sent to Mr G at the most recent address it had for him. It also 
tried to contact Mr G after this by texting him. And Ive seen its records that show it tried to 
contact him by text.
So even if Santander had written to Mr G with the 123 graduate account key features, I think 
as he says he didnt receive correspondence from Santander, its unlikely that he would have 
received this documentation either. And he didnt respond to Santanders further attempts to 
contact him by text. As a result, I dont think Santander not providing Mr G with the key 
features for the 123 graduate account, would have made a difference to his overdraft being 
withdrawn in this particular case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman