DRN-2895816
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N have travel insurance as a benefit attached to their credit card. They booked a 
package holiday abroad and were due to travel in March 2020, to a country Ill call T. 
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 10 March 2020, the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel to T. So Mr and Mrs N 
rearranged their holiday and were planning to travel instead on 13 October 2020.
On 7 October 2020, while there was no FCO advice against travel to T for UK nationals, its 
government imposed specific entry requirements. Travellers were required to show theyd 
had a negative Covid-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before they arrived in T. 
Otherwise, theyd be required to either take a test on arrival at the airport or at a test facility 
in T within 48 hours. 
Mr and Mrs N werent able to arrange a test ahead of their departure date. And as their trip 
was only booked for seven days, they didnt want to risk becoming quarantined in T. They 
looked into rescheduling their trip again, but the hotel provider didnt agree to them doing so. 
So Mr and Mrs N decided to cancel their trip. They made a claim on their travel insurance 
policy.
Aviva turned down Mr and Mrs Ns claim. It said the policy terms didnt cover the 
circumstances of the cancellation.
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy with Avivas decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the policy terms 
covered the reason for the cancellation of the holiday at the point it was cancelled. So she 
felt it was fair for Aviva to turn down the claim.
Mr and Mrs N disagreed. Ive summarised their responses to our investigator. They were 
between a rock and a hard place. They felt theyd acted with common sense and done the 
right thing. They could have stayed at the hotel in T only if theyd been able to access a test 
at the airport and itd been negative. The risk of the Covid-19 pandemic was higher than flu 
and they felt theyd mitigated the potential risk to Aviva if they had to curtail their trip. They 
questioned what else they couldve done. And they felt travel insurance was there to protect 
against unexpected events.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs N, I think it was fair for Aviva to 
turn down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst other 
things, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ns policy and the circumstances of their 
claim, to decide whether Aviva handled it fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ns policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with Aviva. The policy covers cancellation or the cutting short of a 
policyholders holiday in certain, specified situations. So Ive looked closely at the insured 
events Aviva covers under this section.
The contract covers cancellation if: a Foreign and Commonwealth Office advisory notice is 
in place advising against all travel or all but essential travel to your destination or, the FCO 
are advising British citizens to leave the area in which you are staying.
Ive thought carefully about whether Aviva should cover the claim under this section of the 
policy. Theres no dispute that at the time Mr and Mrs N were due to originally travel, on 10 
March 2020, the FCO had advised against all but essential travel to T. However, on 13 
October 2020, there wasnt any FCO advice against travel to T. While Ts government had 
imposed its own entry requirements for UK travellers; there wasnt any guidance in place 
against travelling there at the point the trip was cancelled. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that the claim wasnt covered by this particular term.
Mr and Mrs N feel their claim should be covered for cancellation under the following insured 
event: your accommodation is directly affected by a food poisoning outbreak, or the area
in which you are staying is affected by pandemic or epidemic influenza.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs N feel strongly that this clause applies to the circumstances of their 
claim. But I dont think it was unfair for Aviva to decide the claim wasnt covered by this term. 
Thats because Mr and Mrs Ns accommodation itself wasnt directly affected by Covid-19. 
Theres nothing to suggest the hotel wasnt open or that itd been closed to guests due to 
Covid-19. Instead, the reason Mr and Mrs N couldnt reschedule their trip was down to the 
hotel refusing to change the booking dates. So I think it was fair for Aviva to conclude that 
the claim wasnt covered by this term.
Its clear Mr and Mrs N did try and take steps to mitigate Avivas losses and I sympathise 
with their situation. But Ive considered the specified risks Aviva covers under the 
cancellation section of the policy. And I dont think cancellation due to a policyholders 
inability to undergo a Covid-19 test ahead of travel, or potentially having to quarantine while 
waiting a test or results, falls within the scope of the policy terms. So on the facts of this 
case, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mr and Mrs Ns claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman