DRN-3253782
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) blocked their accounts while they were 
on holiday and wont tell them the reason for the block.
To put things right, Mr and Mrs A want an explanation of why Metro blocked their accounts, 
and compensation.
What happened
On 24 July 2019, Mr and Mrs A went on holiday with their two adult children. Mr A had called 
Metro before they left to say where they were going and to ask if Metro needed to be 
notified. He was told there was no need to notify Metro.
On 29 July, Metro blocked Mr & Mrs As accounts meaning they couldnt use their cards. Mr 
A call Metro to find out what had happened but was told the fraud department was closed. 
He was promised a call back the next day, but this didnt happen. On 2 August, Mr A 
emailed his Metro mortgage broker who in turn contacted the fraud department.
On 4 August, Metro unblocked Mr As card. The mortgage broker didnt know Mrs As card 
was blocked too, so that remained blocked until 21 August, when Mrs A called Metro two 
weeks after returning from holiday. Metro has said it would have lifted the blocks, had it 
spoke to Mr & Mrs A on 30 July. Metro offered £100 in compensation, which Mr A accepted.
Two months later, Mrs A went on holiday again to a different destination. When she tried to 
use her Metro card, it didnt work. She borrowed money from friends for the short break and 
called Metro when she got back home. Metro lifted the block and told Mrs A it had blocked 
her account before she left for her holiday, but wouldnt tell her the reasons for the block.
Mrs A complained to Metro, but it didnt uphold her complaint. It sent its final response to the 
complaint on 6 November 2019, and said it had acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the account but couldnt divulge the reason for its actions.
Mrs A remained unhappy so she brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint in part. She said the first block should have been lifted sooner, and 
asked Metro to pay a total of £350 in compensation, to include the £100 it had already 
offered.
However, aside from the delay in unblocking the cards after the first block, she felt Metro 
hadnt done anything wrong. She reviewed the evidence and said Metro was entitled to block 
the accounts and that it hadnt made a mistake when it did so.
Mrs A didnt agree. She didnt feel Metro was justified in blocking the accounts in the 
circumstances and felt £350 was inadequate compensation. She wanted to know what gave 
Metro the right to take the actions it did, and whether Metro had acted lawfully. She asked 
for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro agrees it could have released the first block more quickly, so I will address whether it 
needs to do anything further to put things right for Mr & Mrs A at the end of this decision.
However, what remains in disagreement between the parties is whether or not Metro was 
entitled to block the accounts at all, whether or not it is entitled to keep the reasons for its 
decision from Mr and Mrs A, and whether or not it acted promptly during the second review.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. The regulations are in place to protect customers and they 
sometimes mean a bank needs to restrict a customers account while it carries out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of Mr and Mrs A, I would need to be satisfied that 
Metro acted unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, 
Im satisfied Metro acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr 
and Mrs As accounts. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and 
conditions that governed the relationship between Metro and Mr and Mrs A.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A are frustrated that Metro hasnt explained its reasons in full, and 
that they feel strongly about their complaint. But, under the terms and conditions of the 
account, Metro doesnt have to give a reason for doing so. So, I cant say it did anything 
wrong by not giving Mr and Mrs A this information when they complained. And, having 
investigated Metros rationale myself, Im satisfied it was entitled to block the accounts and 
complete the investigation in the manner it did. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest it 
treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly.
I should stress the point that our service has investigated the reasons for Metros actions 
and that I have reviewed the evidence it has provided in support of its decision myself. I 
have also thought about everything Mr and Mrs A have told our service and Ive taken their 
comments into consideration when reaching my outcome. Among other things, Mrs A has 
said Metro was told in advance where the account would be accessed from, that the 
transactions in question were only cash withdrawals, that the accounts were all unblocked 
after a simple phone call, and that Metro isnt accountable to its customers.
Because of the very nature of Metros obligations, it would be counter-productive if it were to 
reveal its rationale to all customers either in advance of an anticipated transaction, or when it 
carries out an account review. And, simply because Metro agreed to unblock the accounts 
when Mr and Mrs A called, doesnt mean it wasnt right to place the blocks in the first place.
I understand Mr and Mrs A want to know why Metro blocked their accounts and why nobody 
will tell them why it did so. While I can say that Ive reviewed Metros actions and am 
satisfied it did nothing wrong, I cant reasonably tell it to disclose the reasons for the block 
and review, because its under no obligation to reveal those reasons. So, its entitled to 
choose not to if it wishes.
Metro is accountable to its customers, as well as to our service and the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority. If I wasnt satisfied Metro was entitled to block the accounts, 
its within my powers to tell Metro what to do to put things right. But, having looked at 
everything both parties have sent me, I dont think Metro acted unfairly in blocking the 
accounts, or took steps it wasnt entitled to take. And I dont think it needs to explain the 
reasons for its actions, for the reasons Ive set out above.Although the second block lasted four days, I can see it was lifted when Mrs A contacted 
Metro. Banks cant always contact customers when they block an account, and, in the 
circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Metro to wait until it 
heard from Mr and Mrs A. So, I dont think it caused any unreasonable delay. 
With that being said, Metro has accepted that it could have released the first block more 
quickly, and that it didnt call Mr and Mrs A when it said it would. Mrs A has told our service 
her sons card was also blocked by Metro, and that her daughters card was also blocked (by 
a different bank), albeit after she had made three transactions. And that not having access to 
the Metro account caused her family distress on their holiday.
Given Mr and Mrs A were on holiday with their family, I accept the delay in releasing the 
block would have caused Mrs and Mrs A trouble and upset. And, while Mr A initially 
accepted Metros offer of £100, I think the level of distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs A 
experienced warrants a further payment over and above the amount Metro initially offered. 
Because Mr and Mrs A had to deal with concerns about funds while on holiday, and because 
they had to rely on other sources to fund their time abroad during the delay, my final decision 
is that Metro must pay Mr and Mrs A a total of £350, including the £100 it previously offered 
Mr A.
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay Mr and Mrs A a total of £350, to include 
the £100 it originally offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman