DRN-2112921
The complaint
X is unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC declined a claim for accidental damage under a 
home insurance policy.
What happened
X took a laptop to a supplier for repair. X said as a result of what the supplier did, the laptop 
was unusable. X made a claim to Zurich for accidental damage and also a claim to a 
different insurer under the legal expenses cover provided as a part of the policy but by 
another insurer. X thought a payment of £2,500 under one or other sections of the policy 
should be made.
Zurich said X wasnt covered under the policy for damage caused by faulty design or 
workmanship. The legal expenses insurer also declined the claim.
X brought complaints against Zurich and the legal expenses insurer to this service. Theyve 
been dealt with under separate references because theyve been made against two separate 
respondent businesses. Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint against Zurich. He 
didnt think Zurich had acted incorrectly in view of the exclusion in the policy.
As X didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the terms of Xs policy to decide whether Zurichs decision to reject 
the claim for accidental damage was fair. I can see theres a general exclusion in the policy 
for Loss or damage caused by  faulty design or workmanship.
X has explained that the laptop went to the supplier for repair because it was working very 
slowly. The supplier was asked to adjust one of the drives. X told us that instead the supplier 
merged the partitioned drives of my computer and it is now inoperable.
Xs laptop was working, although it was slow, before it went for repair. After what the supplier 
did, X said it wasnt working at all. So it seems to me most likely that the laptop stopped 
working because of what the supplier did to the drives and that amounted to faulty 
workmanship which isnt covered by Xs policy. 
In this decision Im only looking at the complaint against Zurich. I know X believes that the 
legal expenses insurer said that the damage hadnt been caused by faulty design or 
workmanship. But having read the correspondence I dont think thats right. I think what they 
said was that the supplier might have acted negligently in carrying out the repair but they 
couldnt advise on this as it wasnt covered under the terms of the legal expenses policy. 
I recognise that this has been a difficult time for X, not least as theres been a significant cost 
incurred to purchase a new laptop. But unfortunately for X, I'm not persuaded that Zurich has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman