DRN-3651522
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy Vitality Health Limited declined cover for treatment under her private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
In September 2019 Miss H was diagnosed with severe PMT (Pre-Menstrual Tension) by her 
consultant. Over the next two years they exhausted all treatments of Hormone Replacement 
Therapy (HRT). Eventually the consultant concluded a hysterectomy was the only option to 
cure her condition because she will no longer have a menstrual cycle. 
Vitality said the surgery wouldnt be covered because it wasnt to treat an acute disease, 
illness or injury. They explained her plan would only cover the procedure if there was a 
condition of Miss Hs uterus which the surgery would cure. They said her PMT symptoms 
could be treated medically. 
Miss H disagreed. She said her consultant wouldnt have referred her for surgery if it wasnt 
the only option. She explained that shed been having regular therapy to try and deal with 
her PMT condition as her mental health had really suffered and shed struggled to cope with 
all the treatments theyd tried.  She told Vitality that without the therapy shed received, she 
may not still be here. She reiterated that in the consultants professional opinion, the only 
option left was a hysterectomy to relieve her of such deliberating symptoms and low mental 
health. 
Vitality continued to decline cover, so Miss H self funded the procedure, and the surgery 
went ahead. 
Miss H referred the matter to this service. She said the surgery has been life changing and 
her condition is cured. She is symptom free and no longer has any physical pain or mental 
health problems. So she thinks its unfair Vitality are still refusing to cover the treatment. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened and said he didnt think Vitality had acted 
fairly so he upheld the complaint. He said the medical evidence showed the procedure was 
medically necessary to treat an acute medical condition of severe PMT.
Vitality didnt agree. In summary they said: 
There was a discrepancy with the symptoms reported in the consultants letters 
The surgery isnt to cure a condition, it is so that HRT can be given which will merely 
alleviate the members symptoms, not provide a cure. 
So now the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Vitality have treated Miss H fairly. Ill explain why. 
Miss H was diagnosed with severe PMT by a consultant gynaecologist. She is a lead 
urogynaecologist, so I think its reasonable to give significant weight to her medical opinion 
and suggested treatment plan. The consultant confirmed Miss Hs condition provided a 
severely compromised quality of life and that shed been trying and receiving treatment for 
two years, but it hadnt improved. On that basis, I think its unfair Vitality didnt consider Miss 
Hs severe PMT to be an acute condition. 
Vitality argue the surgery was to allow Miss H to have ongoing medication, rather than 
provide a cure. But I dont think its as clear cut as that. Taken all the evidence in the round, 
Im persuaded that although the procedure enabled Miss H to continue HRT  the overall 
purpose of this all was to cure her severe condition of PMT and the associated mental health 
symptoms she was experiencing. According to Miss H, the surgery has done this - she is 
now pain and symptom free for the long term. So, I think its unreasonable for Vitality to say 
this type of treatment isnt covered. 
The policy documents explains: 
The overall intention of this plan is to provide you with cover for access to prompt private 
medical care for acute conditions and to meet the eligible costs of treatment provided by a 
consultant for these acute conditions. Acute conditions often have a rapid onset and respond 
quickly to treatment. There should not be a need for prolonged care once recovery is 
complete.
Miss Hs surgery was part of a treatment plan by her consultant for severe PMT. And the 
evidence shows there wasnt a need for prolonged care after the surgery. So in line with the 
term set out above, I dont think Vitality fairly considered Miss Hs claim. 
I understand Vitalitys concerns that the surgery wasnt to treat a condition of the womb or 
ovaries, so in essence it was the removal of healthy tissue which isnt covered by the policy.  
However, as Im persuaded the surgery was to treat an acute condition (being severe PMT), 
I dont think its fair to apply this exclusion to the circumstances in this case. 
Im also mindful that Miss H has been consistent in her submissions that due to the 
associated mental health symptoms of her condition, she believes the surgery saved her life.  
Vitalitys notes indicate Miss H explained to them at the time she was suffering acute 
symptoms, so bad she was a danger to herself. So Im further persuaded the surgery was 
medically necessary and Im pleased to see it provided a cure to a debilitating condition. 
I note Vitalitys comments about the inconsistency in the consultants notes aound Miss Hs 
symptoms. But I disagree there is a discrepancy. The evidence shows the settled symptoms 
were due to Miss Hs medication at the time, and we know that was only temporary 
treatment.
Miss H has consistently argued that since the surgery her condition has been cured  she is 
symptom free with no physical pain and or mental health problems. Taking account of her 
detailed submissions alongside the supporting medical evidence from her consultant, Im 
persuaded the surgery was to cure Miss Hs PMT and associated mental health symptoms. 
So on balance, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case for the 
treatment to be covered. 
Putting things right
Vitality Health Limited needs to put things right by paying:
- Miss Hs claim for this surgery, subject to any excess payment- 8% simple interest per annum, until the settlement date 
- £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Miss H suffered whilst trying to 
obtain cover from Vitality. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint against Vitality Health Limited and direct them to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr N 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman