DRN-4470071
The complaint
Mr D complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) for its decision on his claim 
following a leak at his home. He wants Aviva to base settlement on replacement of the full 
ground floor flooring. 
What happened
Mr D holds buildings insurance with Aviva. His policy includes cover for matching sets in 
limited circumstances. 
His home has continuous wooden flooring throughout the ground floor from the open hallway 
into an under stairs area and a downstairs WC. The flooring continues into a further two 
rooms with thresholds and glass filled doors. 
Mr Ds home suffered a leak in the downstairs WC, causing damage to the flooring in that 
room and under the stairs. 
Mr D submitted a claim for the damage. 
Aviva accepted the claim and appraised the damage. It offered settlement based on the 
flooring in the WC and the under stairs area, of around £3000, minus the excess.  
Mr D was not happy. He considered that the flooring was a continuous surface beyond those 
areas covering the full downstairs floor. He consulted a flooring contractor who confirmed 
that the flooring product was no longer available and quoted around £15,000 to replace the 
ground floor flooring with a similar product. 
Aviva declined to cover the other areas. It pointed to the policy wording which required that 
the matching set be within the same room or open plan area and argued that the two 
affected areas were separate rooms, with solid doors. 
Mr D complained to Aviva. Aviva sent its final response in August 2023, maintaining its 
decision. 
Mr D contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
They considered that the flooring was continuous throughout the ground floor and so it would 
not be fair to expect Mr D to instate thresholds to the two affected rooms, when he would 
then lose the continuous effect of his flooring. They recommended that a fair resolution 
would be for Aviva to pay 50% of the cost that it would be to replace the flooring in the 
unaffected downstairs areas. 
Mr D accepted that view. Aviva did not respond. The matter has therefore been passed for 
an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read my colleagues view and I agree with her assessment of the flooring. Whilst the 
two affected rooms do have doors, they do not have thresholds and have a clearly 
continuous flooring surface into the open hallway which ought to be considered as a single 
surface. 
There are two further rooms which have thresholds, but the flooring continues beneath the 
thresholds and the rooms have glass doors so there is an open plan feel to the area. 
The investigator recommended that Aviva pay 50% of the cost of full replacement. They 
considered that 50% was fair to reflect that there was some distinction between the rooms, 
but that in replacing only discrete parts of the floor would require Mr D to lose the continuous 
effect of the flooring and so would not properly indemnify his loss. 
Aviva has not submitted any arguments or further evidence to disagree with that view, and I 
do not think it an unreasonable approach to take. I therefore agree with the investigators 
view, and I uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, Aviva must settle Mr Ds claim by paying to him 50% of the cost quoted 
for replacing the full ground floor flooring surface. 
As Mr D has not yet incurred the expense of replacement, interest is not applicable, and 
Aviva responded promptly to the claim, so I do not consider that compensation for distress 
and inconvenience is justified in this instance.
Mr D has asked whether Aviva would need to pay for redecoration of the affected areas. If 
he wishes Aviva to consider the costs of redecoration, he would need to submit details of 
those to Aviva and it may reach a decision on that loss.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited 
to:
Settle Mr Ds claim at 50% of the cost quoted to him for replacement of the full ground floor 
flooring.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman