DRN-3312944
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Pet Protect Ltd allowed her pet insurance policy to lapse, meaning that 
her pet dog (who Ill call D) wasnt insured for three years.
What happened
Mrs P had pet insurance for two pets with a combined policy. She moved house in 2018 and 
contacted Pet Protect to update her address. A few years later, when updating her payment 
details, Mrs P was told that Ds policy hadnt renewed in 2018.
Mrs P wasnt happy with that because it meant shed have been in a vulnerable position if 
shed needed to claim during the period D wasnt insured. As shed had a combined policy 
and was still paying a monthly premium, Mrs P thought both pets had still been insured, but 
that wasnt the case.
Pet Protect looked into the matter and said they could reinstate the policies  as if D had 
been insured continuously  if Mrs P paid the premiums for the 2019 and 2020 policies. To 
make this easier, Pet Protect said theyd allow the premiums to be paid in instalments. And 
by way of an apology they said theyd waive the cost of the 2018 policy.
Mrs P didnt pay the premiums and took her business elsewhere. But she remained unhappy 
so brought the matter to our service.
An investigator here looked into Mrs Ps case and said that while Pet Protect had made 
mistakes their offer to put things right was fair.
Mrs P didnt accept this, she said Pet Protect had made a number of mistakes in relation to 
the matter. She didnt understand how D could have won their pet of the month prize when 
hed been uninsured. Mrs P was also sceptical as to whether any claims wouldve been paid, 
if had D been ill while uninsured.
Finally, Mrs P said she was being left to pay for Pet Protects mistakes by being asked to 
pay for policies which had never existed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs P but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I wish to be 
clear though that Pet Protect have made mistakes and Mrs P is right to have been frustrated 
with everything that happened.
When considering complaints, I will look at what the impact of any mistakes is on the 
customer. In this case, D was uninsured for a number of years and when this came to light 
Mrs P would have naturally been worried about what could have happened.
But I think Pet Protects proposed remedy was a fair one. It would have meant Mrs P had 
effectively received one year of free cover, for 2018. I also think it was reasonable of them to 
offer payment for the other two years in instalments  to alleviate any possible burden on 
Mrs P of having to pay them all in one go.
I appreciate Mrs P sees it differently and questions why she should pay for policies which 
didnt exist, along with her scepticism that claims would ever have been paid during that 
period. But its relatively common  where mistakes like this happen  for insurance 
companies to be required to cover claims. Indeed, if they dont were likely to say they have 
to, as otherwise its unfair to their customer.
And part of the reason it couldve been beneficial for Mrs P to pay for continuity of cover is 
because her policy was a lifetime one. This means the annual benefit can be claimed each 
year for illnesses that may have been suffered in previous policy years. As opposed to cover 
for existing illnesses being excluded in subsequent years.
That said, I can also understand why Mrs P may have chosen not to accept Pet Protects 
offer and to take her business elsewhere. 
I know Mrs P would like Pet Protect to accept responsibility for their mistakes, and I think 
they have. Once the issue came to light, they apologised and made a suitable offer to Mrs P. 
They couldnt do anything earlier than that because the mistake hadnt been picked up. 
Whilst thats unfortunate, theres not much more that could have been done  although 
businesses have to ensure that lessons are learned from ombudsman determinations.
I appreciate that D winning pet of the month, during the period he wasnt insured, added 
further confusion. As did sending a holding letter after the final response had already been 
issued. I also appreciate that Pet Protects mistyped email address caused further frustration 
with emails not getting through. But I dont think these issues require compensation.
Overall, Pet Protect made a number of mistakes but they apologised and offered what I think 
was a reasonable way to resolve the matter. 
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman