DRN-3371601
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a Premier Account (PA) in June 2006 by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC)
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says he took out the PA because HSBC said it was the only way he could get an 
overdraft.
HSBC says it didnt tell him that. It says it gave Mr M information about the cost and benefits 
of the PA, and he chose to take out the PA based on that.
The sale took place in a conversation between HSBC and Mr M. I wasnt there so I cant 
know what was said. I can only base my decision on the evidence available today.
HSBC has provided information about the PA which shows it had a range of travel and 
financial benefits and cost £20 a month.
Whilst I dont doubt Mr Ms honest recollections about the sale, I think its more likely than 
not that his memory is mistaken.
I say this because provision of overdrafts by financial institutions is based on credit ratings 
rather than products, and HSBC has confirmed this would have been its approach.
Fee free accounts with overdrafts were widely advertised and available from HSBC and 
other financial institutions at the time of sale and the monthly account fee was high at £25. 
So, if HSBC had told Mr M that he had to have the PA to get an overdraft, and he wasnt 
interested in the other account benefits, I think he would have queried this, and looked 
elsewhere and found what he wanted.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr M knew he had a choice whether to take out the 
PA and he chose to do so.
Ive not seen any evidence such as a record of a check of Mr Ms circumstances that would 
show that he was offered advice by HSBC or a recommendation was made. And this service 
is aware that HSBC sales at the time were generally non-advised. So, I think its more likely 
than not that the PA sale was non-advised.
This means that HSBC was only required to provide Mr M with enough information about the 
PA to make an informed decision whether to buy the product.
And I think it did. 
I say this because both parties say there was a lengthy face to face conversation about the 
account, and HSBC has provided evidence that it gave Mr M an information pack about it. 
And I can see why it may have been of interest to Mr M, as he travelled regularly and so was 
covered by the travel insurance and he used the free currency withdrawals abroad. 
He also benefited from the better overdraft and savings rates on the products he used.
There isnt anything I can see about the PA that he wasnt told that might have put him off.
So, overall, I cant see that HSBC did anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman