DRN-1576777
 
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs K and Mr K took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 1993. This happened in a 
meeting and Mr K was covered solely against accidents, sickness and unemployment. The 
mortgage and MPPI policy ended in or before March 2002. 
Mrs K and Mr K initially complained to our service about being mis-sold this policy but have 
since accepted our adjudicators findings that it wasnt mis-sold. So because of this, I have 
not looked at this sale any further.
Mrs K and Mr K then took out another MPPI policy along with a new mortgage in July 2004. 
This policy covered both Mrs K and Mr K initially and they arranged this in a meeting with 
Nationwide. The first 12 months premiums were free. Mrs K and Mr K then amended the 
policy to cover Mr K and this change took place from October 2005. 
Nationwide has compensated Mrs K and Mr K for all premiums relating to Mr Ks cover. So 
what is left to consider is whether the part of the policy that covered Mrs K was mis-sold. 
Mrs K and Mr K say Mrs K wouldnt have been able to claim benefit as she had been retired 
since February 2002. And although she had taken a job a month before they completed the 
application form she had it in mind to retire from work when they moved to their new home. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld and felt if Mrs K had been given 
clearer information she wouldnt have taken it as she had it in mind that she was retiring. 
Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs K and Mr Ks 
complaint about the cover relating to Mrs K. This is because Mrs K and Mr K have said Mrs 
K had it in mind that she was retiring from work. Mrs K and Mr K have been consistent with 
the information they have given, taking into account their circumstances at the time of sale. 
They have said they took the mortgage for a property a far distance away from Mrs Ks 
employment and had it mind for Mrs K to retire from work. They add that Mrs K had retired 
from work in February 2002. They have also provided a document that show Mrs K hadnt worked very much for two years previous to their application. I think the way they have 
presented the information is believable, and I think it is more likely than not that they have 
remembered accurately their situation at the time. 
This would mean under the terms of the policy they took out that Mrs K wouldnt have been 
eligible for the MPPI shortly after it had been put in place. I think if Mrs K and Mr K had been 
given clearer information about this, at the time of sale, more likely than not, they wouldnt 
have taken the policy out. I have seen some of the sales documentation that would have 
been used by Nationwide and cant be sure that they were given clear information about this.
Nationwide has made some good arguments about how likely it is it would have set up an 
MPPI policy for someone who had it in mind they were retiring. They also add that Mrs K told 
them she was working in the application form. But when I balance their arguments against 
the consistent and clear testimony provided by Mrs K and Mr K and the supporting evidence 
they have provided, I am persuaded they were mis-sold the MPPI policy. So I uphold their 
complaint and Nationwide now need to put things right.
fair compensation
Nationwide Building Society should put Mrs K and Mr K in the position theyd be in now if 
they hadnt taken out MPPI. I understand the policy has been cancelled and Nationwide has 
already compensated them for the premiums relating to Mr Ks cover. So Nationwide should:
 
Pay Mrs K and Mr K the amount they paid each month for the MPPI relating to Mrs 
Ks cover.
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
If Mrs K and Mr K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide Building 
Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building Society must give Mrs K and Mr K a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint. 
I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs K and Mr K compensation in accordance 
with the calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman