DRN-2131303
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he was financing through an agreement with 
Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as Moneyway.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneyway, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr A. The car here 
was around six years old and had completed about 84,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would consider it quite a high mileage vehicle and would expect some wear and tear 
as some components may be coming to the end of their operating life.
the brakes and tyres
The MOT completed in January 2018 didnt list any advisories for the brakes, so I think its 
reasonable to assume that the advisory in the 2016 MOT had been repaired by that time. Im 
not persuaded that Moneyway have any responsibility for the subsequent brake repairs 
identified in in December 2018. Mr A had, by that time, completed about 3,000 miles in the 
car and I think some brake wear was to be expected.
In January 2018 the MOT gave an advisory about front tyre wear. At that point the tyres 
were within the legal limit. Its clear that by the time of the December 2018 MOT the front 
tyres had worn below the legal limit, but Im not persuaded Mr A has provided evidence the 
car was supplied to him in this condition. Hed travelled almost 3,000 miles in the car at this 
point and I think could have expected some additional wear to the tyres which could, 
reasonably have taken them below the legal limit.
breakdowns in 2019
The relevant legislation says that if a fault happens more than six months after a consumer 
has taken receipt of a car the onus is on him to demonstrate that a fault was present or 
developing at the point the car was supplied to him. I therefore dont think it was for 
Moneyway to speak to the garage as it was for Mr A to demonstrate the faults were present 
from the beginning. 
Im not persuaded that Mr A has provided sufficient evidence to suggest the failures in July 
2019 or in September 2019 were present or developing at the point the car was supplied.
I say that because this was a high mileage vehicle and I think some wear and tear was to be 
expected. I dont think its unusual for a timing belt to fail when an engine has completed 
more than 90,000 miles and I dont think Mr A has provided sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate thats particularly unusual. 
Similarly, whilst I can understand Mr A wouldnt have been happy that the flywheel, clutch 
and a ball joint required replacing, I dont think it would be fair to suggest there is evidence 
these parts were failing when he took receipt of the car and I think failures of that nature 
could reasonably be expected in a higher mileage vehicle. 
Mr A had completed over 10,000 miles in the car when the timing belt failed, and I dont think 
its likely he would have been able to do that if it was failing when he took receipt of the car - 
I think it would have been likely to have failed earlier. Hed completed almost 7,500 miles 
when the clutch and flywheel needed replacing and I think these issues would have been 
apparent earlier too if they were failing when the car was supplied.
So, Im not persuaded that this car was of unsatisfactory quality and Im therefore not asking 
Moneyway to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman