DRN-3290693
The complaint
Mrs A has complained to West Bay Insurance Plc about the increase in premiums for her 
lifetime pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs A took out lifetime pet insurance in July 2012. She made a claim on her policy in 2021 
and complained about deductions from the claimed treatment costs. West Bay explained in a 
final response in April 2021 how these had been calculated. 
In June 2021 West Bay sent Mrs A renewal documentation which showed an increase in her 
annual premium from £609 to £1188 a year. Unhappy with that Mrs A complained to West 
Bay. In response it explained the reasons for the premium increase. However, it accepted 
this hadnt been made clear to Mrs A when she took the policy out and offered to pay her 
£175 in recognition of the trouble and upset this had caused. 
Mrs A remained unhappy and brought the complaint to us. Our investigator thought West 
Bay had correctly calculated the amount payable for the claim Mrs A made. In relation to the 
premium increase she thought Mrs A had been treated the same as other consumers in the 
same circumstances. But she thought the size of the increase would have been a shock to 
Mrs A. And given this hadnt been made clear at the outset she thought an additional £325 
should be paid. 
Following further discussion with West Bay we established it wasnt responsible for the 
information provided at the point of sale and it only became the insurer of the policy in 2015. 
So, while it was responsible for complaints about the premiums charged since then, issues 
relating to the original sale (and whether any compensation was due) would need to be 
considered against the business responsible for that. 
We confirmed to both parties wed set up a complaint to consider issues to do with the sale 
and Ill issue a separate decision on that. This complaint will deal with the issues for which 
West Bay was responsible. In relation to that Mrs A said she remained unhappy with the 
increase in premiums for the policy (though accepted what the investigator said about the 
issues relating to her claim). So I need to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed. So recurring medical conditions wont be covered. 
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Mrs A took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year. 
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will 
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. And there is no limit to how much the premium could be. 
Insurers are entitled to decide how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide. Its 
up to them how much they increase their premiums by and its common for the percentages 
of increase to vary from year to year. I dont have the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. 
So I cant say the cost of Mrs As policy is too high, she should have been charged less for 
the policy or that she should be charged less in the future. And while Mrs As premium has 
seen a significant increase West Bay has explained the reasons for that and whats driven 
that change. Looking at the information West Bay has provided Im satisfied its based its 
decision on correct information (taking into accounts things like the pets breed, age, gender, 
location and claims history). I havent seen any evidence to show West Bay treated her 
differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder in the same position. So I cant 
tell it to charge a lower premium going forward. 
In relation to the claim Mrs A made, I understand shes accepted what our investigator said 
about this. As a result it doesnt appear this is something I need to decide. In any event Ive 
reviewed the available evidence and agree the claim has been correctly assessed in line 
with the policy terms.
And any concerns Mrs A has about the information she was given when first taking out the 
policy arent something West Bay is responsible for. Thats because it didnt have any 
involvement with the policy at that time. Ill consider those issues in a separate decision 
against the business that is responsible. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
West Bay has done anything wrong. So Im not requiring it to take any action. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman