DRN-4401459
The complaint
Mr W has complained about National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) decision to decline 
a claim he made under his NHBC Buildmark warranty.
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a building comprised of multiple apartments. Mr W is the 
leaseholder of one of the apartments, and the holder of a Buildmark Warranty covering his 
apartment and his share of any common parts. 
Mr W has complained about a defect with the installation of heating systems across the 
development, which means other leaseholders have likely been affected. However, as this 
complaint has been brought solely by Mr W, Im only considering issues relevant to the cover 
he is entitled to under his individual warranty. But the conclusions I reach here would likely 
apply to the other leaseholders too, were they to bring the same complaint to our service.
Mr W says his heating system was installed without sufficient access points for future 
maintenance or repairs. Mr W says NHBC provided building control services in this case and 
failed in its duty to ensure the system met the requirements of Building Regulations. He 
raised claims under two separate sections of the warranty, but both were declined by NHBC.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
our service wasnt able to consider NHBCs building control function as this activity wasnt 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and so fell outside of our remit.
Our investigator said there was no valid claim under part one of section 3 of the warranty 
because the heating system was installed in line with the manufacturer instructions and was 
working as intended, so she didnt think there was a defect. She also said the heating 
system wasnt one of the specified parts of the home covered under section 3, so the claim 
wouldnt be covered, even if there had been a defect. Under part two, she said the issue 
wasnt with a chimney or flue, and there was no present or imminent danger to the health or 
safety of the occupants, and so there was no cover.
Our investigator also considered whether there was a valid claim under section 4. But again, 
this required that there be a present or imminent danger to the health or safety of the 
occupants, in order for a claim to succeed. So, she was satisfied that NHBCs decision to 
decline the claim was fair and reasonable.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators opinion. As no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while it will likely come as a disappointment to Mr W, I agree with our 
investigators conclusions. Ill explain why.
Building control issues
One of Mr Ws initial concerns was about the adequacy of NHBCs building control function. 
Our investigator explained that this isnt one of the regulated activities our service has the 
power to consider.
Mr W appears to have accepted our investigators findings on this point, as he subsequently 
referred his concerns about NHBCs building control function to the appropriate body. So, as 
this is no longer in dispute there is no need for me to make a finding on this element of 
Mr Ws complaint.
 
What the warranty covers under section 3
NHBCs Buildmark policy provides cover for specific major problems with newly built or 
converted properties where there has been a breach of its technical requirements. The 
policy is bought by the builder and passed on to the consumer when they purchase the 
property. The cover provided by the policy is split into several sections. 
Part 1 of Section 3 of the policy is one of the relevant sections in this complaint. This section 
states that NHBC will pay for:
We will pay you the full Cost, if it is more than £1,200 Indexed, of putting right any 
physical damage to your Home which is caused by a Defect in respect of any of the 
following parts of your house, bungalow, maisonette or flat, or its garage or other 
permanent outbuildings:
It then goes on to list the various specified parts of the home, or common parts, which are 
covered. This doesnt include heating systems.
Within the policy booklet there is also specific emphasis on the words Damage and 
Defect and individual definitions for each:
Damage
Physical damage to a Home caused by a Defect
Defect
The breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone 
employed by or acting for the Builder. Failure to follow the guidance supporting an 
NHBC Requirement does not amount to a Defect if the performance required by the 
NHBC Requirement is achieved by other means.
What this means is that Mr Ws warranty doesnt guarantee that his property will be free from 
defects. Rather, it covers repairing any damage which has been caused by a defect (as 
defined) to one, or more, of the specified parts of the home or common parts. 
So, it is the damage, and not the defect(s), which is specifically covered under part 1 of 
section 3 of the warranty.
Alternatively, part 2 of section 3 says that:We will pay you the Cost of putting right any Defect in a flue or chimney that serves 
your Home and causes a present or imminent danger to the physical health and 
safety of anyone normally living in your Home. Alternatively, we may at our option 
arrange to get the necessary work done at our expense.
Claim under section 3
Having carefully considered the cover the warranty provides under this section, and the 
issues raised by Mr W, I think NHBCs decision that there is no cover under either part of 
section 3 is in line with the policy terms and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I say this because no damage as a result of a defect with the heating system has been 
identified. Rather, the complaint is about a lack of access for future maintenance. When 
inspected by the manufacturer, the heating system was considered to have been installed in 
line with the manufacturer guidance and to be performing as expected. So, I dont think its 
been shown that there is damage as a result of a defect. 
And in any event, the heating system is not one of the specified parts of the home covered 
under part 1 of section 3.
Under part 2 of section 3, defects with chimneys or flues are covered where the issue 
presents an imminent danger to the health or safety of the occupants. Mr W has argued that 
the air source pump extraction vents of the heating system perform the same function as a 
flue, and so should be covered.
Im not sure whether I agree with Mr Ws argument or not. But even if I did, the second 
requirement is that the issue with the chimney or flue presents an imminent danger to the 
health or safety of the occupants. And Ive not been provided with any persuasive evidence 
that there is such a present or imminent danger. 
So, for these reasons, Im satisfied NHBCs decision that there is no valid claim for the 
issues reported under section 3, is fair and reasonable.
What the warranty covers under section 4
Section 4 of the warranty provides additional cover where NHBC has performed the building 
control function. The policy booklet explains the cover provided:
If there is a present or imminent danger to the physical health and safety of the 
occupants of your Home because it does not comply with the Building Regulations 
that applied to its construction, conversion or renovation in relation to the following 
specified Building Regulations, we will pay you the Cost of the necessary repairs:
Part A Structure; 
Part B Fire safety; 
Part C Site preparation and resistance to contaminants and moisture; 
Part G Sanitation, hot water safety and water efficiency;
Part H Drainage and waste disposal; 
Part J Combustion appliances and fuel storage systems; 
Part K Protection from falling, collision and impact; 
Part N Glazing  safety in relation to impact, opening and cleaning.
What this means is for cover under section 4 there needs to be a failure to comply with one 
of the relevant sections of Building Regulations, which is causing a present or imminent 
danger to the health or safety of the occupants.As explained in the above section, I dont consider there has been any persuasive evidence 
provided to support that such an imminent danger exists. And I note that Mr W seems to 
accept this is the case too. 
I also havent seen evidence that any of the sections of Building Regulations, relevant to 
section 4, gave specific guidance about access points for heating systems, which has been 
breached. But even there was such evidence, there is no evidence of a present or imminent 
danger caused by the lack of access. So, as with section 3, Im satisfied that NHBCs 
decision not to accept a claim under section 4 is in line with the terms of the policy and is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
I fully appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling, and Ive carefully considered his arguments that 
there may be a danger to the health or safety of the occupants in the future. But, as 
explained above, a potential, future risk to health and safety isnt covered under Mr Ws 
policy, only a present or imminent danger. 
I also understand that Mr W feels its unreasonable that the system could have been 
designed and installed without sufficient access points for future maintenance. And while I 
sympathise with his view on this, that doesnt automatically mean that responsibility for 
correcting this falls to NHBC. Rather, NHBC is required to provide the cover set out in the 
policy. And Ive not seen anything which would lead me to conclude that the lack of access 
points to the heating system ought to be covered under the relevant sections of the policy in 
these circumstances. 
So, Mr Ws arguments here dont alter my conclusion that NHBCs decision on the claim is 
both in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy, and that is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint against 
National House-Building Council.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman