DRN-3800867
The complaint
Miss W has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n 
(RSA)s decision to reject a claim she made for storm damage under her home buildings 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In April 2022 Miss W reported damage to guttering and a flat roof at her home which she 
said had been caused by a recent storm. 
Her insurer RSA instructed a Surveyor to visit Miss Ws home. The Surveyor said the main 
cause of the damage was wear and tear which a storm had made worse. As RSAs policy 
excluded cover for damage in these circumstances, RSA declined Miss Ws claim. 
Miss W complained to RSA but it said its decision was correct. So Miss W asked us to look 
at things for her.
Our Investigator thought RSA had reached its decision reasonably. Miss W didnt agree. So 
she wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ws policy with RSA provides indemnity for specific insured perils like storm, fire or 
flood. Like most (if not all) standard home insurance policies, RSA doesnt provide cover for 
damage caused gradually, through wear and tear. 
As both parties are aware, we ask three questions when we look at storm damage claim 
complaints to help decide whether an insurer has acted reasonably - and in line with the 
policy. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then we think the claim is likely to succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
RSA doesnt define what storm conditions mean under its policy - so we have looked at our 
general approach. On checking local weather conditions, wind gusts at the time the damage 
was reported were high enough to say that storm conditions occurred at the time. So the 
answer to the first question is yes. 
Miss W reported that part of the felt flat roof had torn away during the storm - and she said 
water was overflowing from guttering in heavy rainfall. So the answer to the second question 
could be yes. 
The Surveyor reported that the guttering at Miss Ws home had debris and vegetation which, 
once cleared, would prevent further overflowing of water. 
He reported that the materials (the felt) on the flat roof had reached the end of its useful life. 
Miss W had lived at the property for ten years and the roof predated her moving in. He 
described vegetation on the roof in two places: near the join to the house, and the lower 
section of the flat roof where the felt had peeled back in high winds. 
Photos provided by the Surveyor support his view. 
Miss W provided a copy of an estimate for repairs to the roof. The roofer wrote on the 
estimate that in his view the damage was caused by a storm. However, no reasoning or 
evidence has been provided to support this view. 
Research shows that a felt flat roof - when kept in good maintenance - has a natural lifespan 
of 10 to 15 years. Miss W says she had repairs carried out to the roof in 2019. However, the 
photos of the roof by the Surveyor show deterioration and signs of wear and tear. So overall 
Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that RSAs decision to reject Miss Ws claim was 
reasonable and in line with the policy. 
I understand Miss W will be disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not upholding 
her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman