DRN-2615343
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, didnt close his 
account when they should have done, which led to adverse information being recorded on 
his credit file.  
What happened
Mr H made a request to Barclays to close an account with them in January 2020. Barclays 
didnt close the account like Mr H requested, and this meant that a purchase that Mr H made 
through an electronic payment services provider was charged to the account without Mr H 
being aware of this.
This meant that Mr H had a balance on his Barclays account which went unpaid, resulting in 
missed payments being reported to the credit reference agencies. When Mr H became 
aware of this, he contacted Barclays and raised a complaint.
Barclays upheld Mr Hs complaint and agreed that they hadnt followed his instructions to 
close the account when he had asked them to. Barclays agreed to refund any charges on 
the account and to amend Mr Hs credit file so that no missed payments would be recorded. 
They also offered Mr H £50 for the inconvenience he had suffered.
Mr H then approached a mortgage broker in July 2020 to help him make arrangements to 
move home. The broker was unable to gain a mortgage agreement in principle for Mr H, and 
explained that this was because of an outstanding issue still active on his credit file.
When Mr H reviewed his credit file, he saw that Barclays hadnt amended his credit file as 
they said that they would. So, Mr H made a further complaint to Barclays, who upheld the 
further complaint and said that they would remove the adverse information from Mr Hs credit 
file as a priority. Barclays also offered Mr H an addition £50, bringing the total amount of 
compensation offered to £100.
Mr H didnt think Barclays offer went far enough, especially considering that the house he 
had wanted to buy was no longer available. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They agreed that the offer of £100 made 
by Barclays wasnt appropriate considering the circumstances of the complaint. However, 
they noted that the impact on Mr H was that he had been unable to gain approval for a 
mortgage agreement in principle. 
Our investigator noted that a mortgage agreement in principle isnt the same as an actual 
mortgage offer, and so they didnt feel they could reasonably say that Mr H would definitely 
have been able to buy the house if the adverse information on his credit file hadnt been 
there. Because of this, our investigator felt that Barclays increased offer of compensation 
from £100 to £250 represented a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
Mr H didnt agree and felt that a higher amount of compensation was merited. So, his 
complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin Id like to confirm that Barclays have responded to this service and accepted the 
view put forward by our investigator which recommended that they increase the level of 
compensation offered to Mr H from £100 to £250. However, Mr H feels that this higher 
amount of compensation is still too low, considering the circumstances of the complaint.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration here, especially as Barclays not removing the adverse 
information from his credit file in a timely manner meant that he couldnt obtain a mortgage 
agreement in principle.
However, as our investigator noted, a mortgage agreement in principle isnt the same as an 
actual mortgage offer, and so it cant be definitively said that Mr H would have been able to 
purchase the house in question if the adverse information on his credit file hadnt been there. 
And I say this because a formal mortgage application would still have to have taken place.
I understand that this will frustrating for Mr H, and that he may believe that he would have 
successfully negotiated the full mortgage application had he been in a position to move 
forward with it. But I hope that Mr H can understand that in order for this service to award 
compensation for financial loss, there needs to be evidence that a loss has definitely 
occurred. And that isnt the case in this instance.
But Mr H has been inconvenienced, and Barclays have acknowledged this and have offered 
Mr H compensation because of this. Matters of compensation are always a subjective issue, 
and often an emotive one. What one person may consider as fair compensation may not be 
viewed similarly by another person. However, I must note that the £250 compensation 
suggested by our advisor is commensurate with what this service would expect in this 
instance, given all the circumstances here.
So, while I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr H was wanting, I find that 
instructing Barclays to increase the total offer of compensation to £250  as they have 
already agreed to do  represents a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. And it 
follows that I will be upholding this complaint on that basis.
Putting things right
Barclays should make a payment to Mr H of £250 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he has experienced here.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman