DRN-2186444
The complaint
Mr R complains about incorrect information he was given by Standard Life Assurance
Limited (Standard Life) when he was planning to switch his money, held in his self-invested
personal pension (SIPP), from one fund to another. He says the incorrect information led him
to suffer a financial loss.
What happened
Mr R had a SIPP with Standard Life. Mr Rs independent financial adviser (IFA) spoke to
Standard Life on 16 February 2018 about cashing-in Mr Rs investment (held within the
SIPP) in a managed fund and investing the cash in an external fund with a firm Ill call V.
According to Standard Lifes call notes, the IFA was unhappy that Standard Life hadnt
properly explained how to go about this when he tried to do it before. There seems to have
been some confusion about whether or not Standard Life could carry out this transaction and
whether it had received a letter of authority from Mr R enabling the IFA to act on his behalf.
But Standard Life seems to have called the IFA back and left a message to the effect that
the IFA could now instruct Standard Life to sell the managed fund investment and once that 
was cashed-in, Standard Life could make the investment into V.
On 21 March 2018, Mr Rs IFA called Standard Life. Again, there was some confusion
because he thought hed already asked Standard Life to cash-in the managed fund
investment and invest the cash in V. Standard Life told the IFA that the sale of the managed
fund investment and the investment into fund V could be completed in a few days. The IFA
told Standard Life to sell the managed fund investment and reinvest in the new fund.
On 23 March, the managed fund investment was sold.
On 27 March, Standard Life realised an error had been made. In order for the investment to
be made in V, a discretionary fund manager (DFM) account needed to be set up with V.
Standard Life copied the IFA into an email it sent to V asking it to set up a DFM account. The
email also asked the IFA to complete a customer agreement, which then needed to be sent
to V to allow the account to be opened and for Standard Life to send the money across.
Mr R says he received the customer agreement from the IFA on 6 April, which he completed
and returned to his IFA. The IFA then sent it to Standard Life on 18 April. Standard Life
received it on 20 April and sent it to V. V confirmed the account was open on 9 May and
Standard Life sent the cash to V to make the investment that same day.
Mr R complained because while his managed fund investment was cashed-in on 23 March
and remained in cash until 9 May, the value of the managed fund and fund V had both risen.
He thought hed lost out on the growth in the value of fund V between 23 March and 9 May.
Alternatively, if his investment hadnt been cashed-in until the paperwork was complete, he
said he would have stayed invested in the managed fund and had lost out on the growth in
that fund from 23 March  9 May.
At first Standard Life didnt uphold the complaint. It reviewed its decision and decided to
uphold it in part. It said the time taken by the other parties to this transaction delayed the
investment being made until 9 May. It thought if the other parties had acted with greater
urgency, the investment could have been made by 18 April. So, it offered to put Mr R back in
the position he would have been if the investment had been made on 18 April.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought that, if
Mr R and his IFA had been told it would take some time to open a DFM account with V, Mr R
would have remained invested in the managed fund until the new account was open with V.
So, she thought Standard Life should calculate compensation based on the lost growth Mr R
would have received if hed remained invested in the managed fund and then switched to the
V fund on 18 April 2018.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators view. He said if hed remained in the managed fund, as
the investigator had suggested, he should be compensated right up until the managed fund
investment would have been sold and the cash reinvested in V, which was 9 May, rather
than 18 April. Standard Life also didnt agree with the investigator.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 August 2020 and explained why I considered Mr Rs 
complaint should be upheld. I said:
Its not in dispute that Standard Life didnt mention, during the 21 March telephone call, that
a DFM account needed to be set up before the investment in V could go ahead. Standard
Life also accepts that it didnt properly explain what was required to complete the transaction
when the IFA spoke to Standard Life on 16 February.
In its email dated 9 April 2020, Standard Life told us that Mr R would have had the account
with V open if Standard Life had given him the correct information about the process in
February 2018. It said it accepts the investment could have been made on 26 March 2018, if
the account had been open. If that is the case, then following that logic, but for Standard
Lifes lack of clarity in February 2018, it seems to me that if Mr R would have been able to
make the investment into V on 26 March 2018. So he should be compensated for the loss of
investment growth on the V fund from 26 March 2018 to 9 May 2018. That additional amount
would in turn have grown since 9 May 2018 and so that should be brought up to date.
If Standard Life had given Mr Rs IFA the correct information on 16 February 2018 he could
have started to complete and return the necessary paperwork then.
From when he first asked to sell the managed fund investment and move into the V fund, it
took 29 working days for the transaction to be completed. V sent the account opening details
on 9 May 2018 and Standard Life made the investment the same day.
Assuming it would also have taken 29 working days for the investment to be made if
Standard Life had given clear information on 16 February, the investment would have
completed on 29 March 2018. So, I broadly agree with Standard Life that if it had been clear
about what needed to happen in the first place, on 16 February 2018, the investment
probably could have been made on 26 March 2018, and if not, within a couple of days of that
date i.e. 29 March 2018.
It is hard to say whether Mr R would have stayed invested in the managed fund or whether
he wanted to exit it as quickly as possible, as the value seems to have been falling. Mr R
says he wouldnt have wanted his investment sat in cash and the IFA suggests he wouldnt
have instructed Standard Life to go ahead if hed been told there was paperwork to complete
and it could take 15 working days to open the DFM account and invest in V. While I note that
the IFA indicated he was keen to sell the managed fund investment as soon as possible, this
does seem to have been on the basis that the money would be reinvested quickly. Theres
no indication Mr R wanted to sit in cash. On balance, I think he probably would have asked
for the managed fund investment to be sold as soon as the DFM account was set up and he
knew the investment in V could go ahead.On the basis that the DFM account could have been set up by around 26 March and the sale
of the managed fund investment and reinvestment in V could have gone ahead a few days
after that, had Mr R and his IFA been correctly advised on 16 February 2018, I think the
investment in V could have taken place by 29 March 2018.
Im conscious there are many variables in this case and trying to decide what would have
happened if correct advice had been given is difficult. Changing one of those variables could
affect the calculation of redress. But I think this solution is broadly fair and reasonable. It
allows for the fact Standard Life could have made it clear to the IFA what he had to do on 16
February. It allows for the fact that it took some time for the paperwork to be returned by Mr
R and his IFA and probably still would have done if theyd been told what needed to happen
on 16 February. It also allows for the fact it took V slightly longer than expected to confirm
the account was open. Im not saying these delays were particularly excessive. I think its
more the case that there were several parties involved having to send, receive, return and
action documents and in the real world this doesnt always happen in the quickest possible
time frame. But I do acknowledge that not all the delay in setting up the DFM account was
down to Standard Life.
So, in order to put things right I currently think Standard Life should calculate the position Mr
R would now be in if he had remained invested in the Standard Life managed fund until 26
March 2018 and then was able to invest in the new fund with firm V on 29 March 2018.
Mr R said he was happy with my provisional decision and had no more comments to make. 
Standard Life did not accept my provisional decision. It said:
It had already paid an amount by way of compensation and wanted clarification that if 
I upheld the decision, it could deduct the amount it had already paid from the 
settlement figure I asked it to calculate.
If I upheld the complaint and it calculated compensation would be lower under my 
method of redress it wouldnt be looking to recover the additional amount it had 
already paid.
It accepted that its error was the reason why there was a delay in Mr R investing in 
the V fund, but it didnt believe it was responsible for the whole delay.
While it had given the incorrect information on 21 March 2018, it had corrected this 
information by 27 March and the delay in getting the account set up from that point 
was due to other parties. 
It asked what my view was of the responsibility of Mr Rs representative to mitigate 
Mr Rs potential losses from 27 March 2018. 
Standard Life questioned what advice the IFA gave Mr R when he told him the 
investment in V couldnt go ahead until the DFM account had been set up. 
It asked whether Mr R and his representative decided to remain in cash until the 
account was open.
Mr R and his representative could have complained at that point and asked Standard 
Life to reverse the switch, mitigating any potential losses. It asked why Mr R hadnt 
done this.
It thought Mr R and his representative should bear some of the responsibility for the 
loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Standard Life accepts its first error was in not explaining the process correctly on 16 
February 2018. It has said it considers that the DFM account could have been set up and the 
investment made on 26 March 2018 if it had explained that process properly on 16 February 
2018. But it then seems to have ignored that error and its own conclusion that, but for that 
error, Mr R would have been invested in fund V from 26 March 2018 and focused on its 
second error only.
In my provisional decision I concluded that but for the error in explaining the correct process 
on 16 February 2018, Mr Rs investment would most likely have gone ahead on or around 26 
March 2018. Standard Life has made no substantive comment on that in response to my 
provisional decision, instead focusing on the position it thinks Mr R would have been in if the 
error of 21 March hadnt happened. 
I remain of the view that if Mr R and his representative had been told the correct process for 
making the fund switch, on 16 February 2018, the switch would most likely have taken place 
on or around 26 March, for the reasons given in my provisional decision. If correct 
information had been given in February, the 21 March call wouldnt have taken place.
Standard Life has made several comments about what steps it feels Mr R and his 
representative ought to have taken once they were aware of the need for a DFM account to 
be set up. In essence, it feels Mr R and his representative should bear some responsibility 
for it taking 29 working days to set up the DFM account. I consider that the method of 
redress I set out in my provisional decision does take this into account. I concluded that if it 
had taken 29 working days to set up the account, in part due to the length of time it took Mr 
R and his representative to turn documents around, then it would have also likely taken 29 
days had they been given the correct information in the first place on 16 February 2018. 
I have considered the question of whether Mr R would have cashed-in his managed fund 
investment as soon as possible, or whether he would have waited until the DFM account had 
been set up. The main evidence on this point is the call transcript from the 21 March 2018 
call. There are points during the call where Mr Rs representative indicates he wants the 
managed fund investment to be sold as quickly as possible. But that was very much in the 
context of having been told that it would only take a couple of days for it to be reinvested in 
fund V. 
There is no persuasive evidence to suggest that Mr R wanted to sit in cash and that he or his 
representative would have asked for the managed fund investment to be sold if they had 
been told it could be 15 working days (more in reality) before the DFM account was set up 
and the investment made in fund V. I accept that when Mr R and his representative were 
made aware that the investment in V couldnt go ahead yet and a DFM account needed to 
be set up, they didnt tell Standard Life to reverse the transaction. But I dont think that 
indicates they were happy with the situation or wanted to be sat in cash. Standard Life gave 
no indication of how long it might take to set up the account and nor had Standard Life 
offered to reverse the transaction. 
Overall, I dont think this adds much weight to the argument that Mr R would have cashed in 
his managed fund investment as soon as possible. The evidence indicates Mr R wanted to 
transfer from the managed fund to the V fund as soon as possible, not that he wanted to exit 
the managed fund as soon as possible and was prepared to sit in cash until such time as the investment in fund V could be made. On balance, if Mr R and his representative had been 
told on 16 February 2018 that they needed to set up a DFM account before the fund switch 
could complete and it might take 15 working days, perhaps more, I consider Mr R would, 
most likely, have waited to cash in the managed fund investment until the DFM was set up.
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I consider if Standard Life had 
given correct information on 16 February, Mr R and his representative would have started 
the process of setting up the DFM account then. Since it took 29 working days to set up in 
reality, I consider its reasonable to conclude it would have likely taken a similar length of 
time to set up if the process had been started on 16 February. I think the managed fund 
could have been disinvested on 26 March and investment in fund V could have taken place 
on 29 March, a few days later as it was supposed to. On that basis I consider Standard Life 
should put Mr R back in the position he would have been in if he had disinvested from the 
managed fund on 26 March with the proceeds being reinvested in fund V on 29 March 2018.
Putting things right
In order to put Mr R in the position he would have been in, but for Standard Lifes error, I 
consider Standard Life should calculate what the current value of Mr Rs investment in V 
would be worth, at the date of this final decision if:
1. his managed fund investment had been cashed-in on 26 March 2018; and
2. this amount had been invested in fund V on 29 March 2018. 
If the current value of his investment in V is lower than the amount calculated above, 
Standard Life should pay the difference into Mr Rs investment.
I understand that Standard Life has already paid an amount of compensation into Mr Rs 
investment. I believe the above method of compensation will take account of that, as any 
compensation already paid into the investment should have the effect of reducing the 
difference between the current value of the investment and any higher amount calculated by 
following the steps outlined above. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint and require Standard Life Assurance Limited to pay Mr R 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Greg Barham
Ombudsman