DRN-3203734
The complaint
Mr G complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) provided him with a credit card 
that was unaffordable.  
What happened
Mr G took out a credit card with Barclays in 2012 with an initial credit limit of £6,300. This 
was increased to £7,800 in October 2013, to £8,800 in September 2014 and to £12,800 in 
June 2015. 
Mr G began to experience difficulties with making monthly repayments on the credit card in 
early 2016. He contacted Barclays in February 2016 and advised he was liaising with a debt 
charity. Barclays initially suspended interest on his account and then reduced his monthly 
interest rate to 3% per annum. Mr G also entered into an arrangement to pay a specific 
amount each month. His account went into arrears in March 2016 and was sold by Barclays 
at the end of 2016.  
  
Mr G complained to Barclays in April 2021 about the affordability of the credit cards and the 
subsequent credit limit increases, and about the impact that trying to manage the debt had 
on his well-being. 
Barclays responded and said when it opened Mr Gs account and increased his credit limit, it 
carried out various checks including a credit check. Barclays said there was no evidence 
from Mr Gs credit file that he was struggling financially and he passed its affordability 
checks. It also said Mr G could have reduced the credit limit if he felt it was too high. 
Mr G then complained to this service. He thought Barclays hadnt done the correct checks, 
as otherwise it wouldnt have approved the amount of credit provided. Mr G said he was on a 
low wage and had other borrowing. Mr G also said he contacted Barclays to let it know he 
was struggling but no help was offered. He said he was instead pressured into finding other 
ways to make payments. Mr G asked for an apology as this caused him great stress and 
financial pressure. He also asked for all interest and charges incurred by him to be refunded 
and defaults removed from his credit file. 
Our investigator told Mr G that this service could only look into his complaint about the 2015 
credit limit increase, as parts of the complaint had been brought out of time. He concluded 
that Barclays carried out reasonable affordability checks for the 2015 credit limit increase. 
Mr G did not agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I know Mr G wants this service to consider the merits of his complaint against Barclays, but I 
have to first of all look at whether this service can consider the complaint. Having reviewed 
everything provided by all parties, Im satisfied that elements of Mr Gs complaint were 
brought to this service too late and so I cannot look into the complaint in its entirety. Ill 
explain why. 
Our service can consider a wide variety of complaints about financial services, but we arent 
free to look into every complaint thats referred to us. The rules that set out what complaints 
we can consider are the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority handbook.
One of these rules (DISP 2.8.2 R) says we cannot consider a complaint, unless the business 
consents, if it was referred to us more than:  
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
R was as a result of exceptional circumstances 
Looking first of all at DISP 2.8.2 (a), Im satisfied that Mr Gs complaint about the affordability 
of the initial lending in 2012 and the subsequent credit limit increases in 2013 and 2014 was 
made more than six years after each of those events. Mr G didnt complain to Barclays until 
around April 2021, which is more than six years after each of those events.
Ive then looked at DISP 2.8.2 (b), namely, when Mr G became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint. Mr Gs complaint is about the 
affordability of the credit card and credit limit increases. I can see that Mr G fell into arrears 
with the credit card payments in March 2016, which means it would have been clear to him 
at this point that he was struggling to afford the credit card. So I think its at that point in time 
that he would reasonably have become aware that he had cause for complaint in relation to 
the affordability of the card and the credit limit increases. Mr G should have brought the 
complaint to this service within three years of becoming aware that he had cause for 
complaint. But Mr G didnt do that. Therefore, this particular part of Mr Gs complaint has 
been brought to this service outside of the time limits that allow us to consider it. 
As Barclays hasnt consented to this service looking at all of Mr Gs complaint, the DISP 
rules (2.8.2 (3)) mean the only way I could consider all of this complaint is if I thought the 
failure to comply with the time limits was a result of exceptional circumstances. I can see that 
Mr G has provided us with information about his health and well-being and wants us to 
consider whether these amount to exceptional circumstances as to why he wasnt able to 
bring this complaint within time. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr G and it seems hes been through a difficult time over 
the past few years. However, the bar for exceptional circumstances is a high one  the DISP 
rules provide an example of exceptional circumstances as being where a complainant has 
been or is incapacitated. So, in order to say that this complaint was one we could look at, I 
would need to be satisfied that Mr G was in some way prevented from bringing his complaint 
to this service on time. While its clear Mr G was experiencing difficulties, I cant fairly say 
that he was prevented from bringing this complaint to this service on time. 
Ive thought about what Mr G said about not knowing until recently that he could complain. 
But the DISP rules are clear that whats relevant here is when Mr G ought reasonably to have been aware he had cause for complaint and not when he became aware that it was 
possible to make a complaint. 
Mr G also said that Barclays didnt inform him back in 2016 that he could complain or advise 
him of timescales. But I wouldnt necessarily expect Barclays to do that when they are 
contacted by a consumer who lets it know they are struggling to make repayments. At that 
point Id expect Barclays to offer appropriate assistance, and to provide information about 
the complaints process only if asked to do so. 
What all of this means is that I am not able to look into Mr Gs complaint about whether 
Barclays should have offered him the credit card in 2012 and whether the subsequent credit 
limit increases in 2013 and 2014 were affordable. But I can look at whether Barclays did 
enough to check whether the credit limit increase in June 2015 was affordable, as this 
complaint point was brought within six years of the 2015 credit limit increase. And Im 
satisfied it did. Ill explain why. 
In its terms and conditions Barclays says: 
We set your credit limit according to your circumstances, your account usage and history, 
information from other parts of the Barclays group. Information we receive from credit 
reference agencies, and any other information we think is relevant.
Well tell you what your credit limit is when we first open your account. Well then review it 
from time to time. If we change your credit limit, well write to let you know.
Aside from adhering to its own terms and conditions, Barclays, as a regulated business, is 
required to carry out proportionate affordability checks when credit limit increases are 
offered. I can see that the credit limit increase provided in June 2015 was a significant one  
from £8,800 to £12,800. 
Ive considered how Mr G managed his credit card account with Barclays. This is information 
Barclays has readily to hand and I would expect it to give proper consideration to how he is 
managing the debt he currently has with it. So Ive looked at Mr Gs credit card statements in 
the six months prior to the credit limit increase in June 2015. I can see that during this time 
Mr Gs outstanding balance was steadily increasing, but he never goes over his credit limit of 
£8,800. In fact, at its highest, his outstanding balance was around half that amount. Mr G 
also largely paid the minimum amount due each month, although on one occasion he was 
able to make a payment of £1,000. There were also no late payment charges. I cant see 
that there was anything about how Mr G was managing his account at that stage which 
would give Barclays cause for concern.
I can see that within around six months of the increase to £12,800 Mr G had used the 
maximum amount of credit available to him and he had also begun to rely heavily on cash 
advances. So I think its fair to say the account quickly became unmanageable for him and I 
sympathise with Mr G. But this happened after the credit limit increase and so isnt 
something that Barclays could have taken into consideration when it looked at whether the 
increase to £12,800 was affordable for Mr G. 
Barclays also provided this service with information about the checks carried out with credit 
reference agencies and its own internal processes for looking at affordability. Im satisfied 
that these checks were sufficient and there were no affordability concerns. 
Barclays said it also wrote to Mr G to let him know about the credit limit increase and it gave 
him the option of refusing the increase. Due to the amount of time thats passed, it hasnt 
been able to provide this service with a copy of this letter. But it did provide a template of the letter that automatically gets sent out to consumers when a credit limit increase is offered. 
So Im satisfied its more likely than not that one of these letters was sent to Mr G. Sending 
these letters doesnt take away from Barclays responsibility to carry out proportionate 
checks, but its necessary for it to let consumers know that they can opt out of an unsolicited 
credit limit increase. And Im satisfied it did that in Mr Gs case. 
Barclays sold Mr Gs debt at the end of 2016 and it acted within the terms and conditions of 
his account when it did this. The relevant term says: 
Transferring this agreement
We may transfer to any other person any or all of our rights and duties under this agreement 
at any time (including, without limitation, our duty to lend to you.) We may do this without 
telling you. Your rights under this agreement and your legal rights (including those under the
Consumer Credit Act 1974) will not be affected. You wont be able to transfer any right you 
have against us to anyone else.
Mr G is also understandably concerned about his credit file, as the difficulties he had 
managing the credit card debt will have been reported to the various credit reference 
agencies. But all lenders are obliged to report how consumers are managing debt to credit 
reference agencies. Credit files have to accurately reflect how consumers are managing 
their borrowing.  
To sum up, Im satisfied that Barclays carried out proportionate affordability checks prior to 
offering Mr G a credit limit increase, and it also offered him the opportunity to opt out. 
Barclays also acted in line with its own terms and conditions when it sold Mr Gs debt. This 
means I am not asking Barclays to take any further action. 
Mr G also complained that Barclays didnt provide appropriate support when he told it back 
in 2016 that he was struggling financially. But I can see that when he contacted Barclays in 
early 2016, he was already in contact with a debt charity and Barclays agreed to suspend 
interest charges for 30 days while a payment plan was put in place. And when this plan was 
put in place, Barclays reduced the interest rate to 3% per annum, for as long as Mr G 
continued to make the agreed payments. So Im satisfied Barclays took appropriate action at 
this stage when Mr G told it he was struggling. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman