DRN-2828173
The complaint
Mr and Ms M complain about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited administered the 
downgrade of their annual travel insurance policy. This has led to AXA turning down a 
cancellation claim they made. 
What happened
Mr and Ms M held worldwide annual travel insurance which was underwritten by AXA. This 
provided cover for trips lasting up to 65 days, with a total annual maximum of 183 days. AXA 
sent Mr and Ms M renewal paperwork in May 2019.
On 1 April 2019, Ms M called AXA, to look into downgrading the policy. Instead of worldwide 
cover, Mr and Ms M were looking for annual European cover only. This type of policy 
provided cover for trips lasting up to 25 days. They decided to take up this option and AXA 
sent them updated policy documents  including a new membership certificate.
Mr and Ms M were due to travel abroad on 2 May 2020 until 5 June 2020. However, as a 
result of the Covid-19 pandemic, their trip was cancelled. They were able to recover ferry 
and hotel costs. But they made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs of a villa 
theyd booked between 9 May and 2 June 2020.
AXA turned down Mr and Ms Ms claim. Thats because it said that as their total trip length 
exceeded the policy limit of 25 days, Mr and Ms Ms claim wasnt covered.
Mr and Ms M were unhappy with AXAs decision. They felt AXA had mis-sold the European 
cover and they asked us to look into their complaint. They said that when Ms M had spoken 
with AXA, it hadnt told her about the significant difference between the trip length limits 
available under the two types of policy. They also considered that the policy paperwork was 
confusing as to the trip length limits. They said if AXA had made the trip length limits clear, 
they wouldnt have gone ahead with the downgrade.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Ms Ms complaint should be upheld. He accepted that 
AXA hadnt made the difference between the trip length cover limits clear during the 
downgrade call. But he thought the membership certificate and policy documents AXA had 
provided to Mr and Ms M after the policy had been sold had made the 25-day limit 
sufficiently clear. So he thought itd been open to Mr and Ms M to cancel the policy within the 
cooling-off period if they didnt think it met their needs. He concluded that AXA didnt need to 
take any action.
Mr and Ms M disagreed. They maintained that they shouldve been advised that if they took 
out European cover, then their trip length limit would substantially reduce. They said that for 
a number of years, theyd spent more than a month in Europe. So if the trip length limit had 
been highlighted, they definitely wouldve continued with their existing worldwide cover. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Ms M, I think AXA has treated them 
fairly. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that after AXA sent Mr and Ms M renewal documents in March 2019, Ms 
M called AXA to discuss downgrading the existing worldwide policy to European cover. Ms 
Ms told us that that was because they werent planning any long-haul trips that year. The 
key issue Im looking at is whether I think AXA sold the downgrade fairly.
First, as the investigator explained, I need to consider how the European policy was sold to 
Mr and Ms M. Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call recording, so 
I havent been able to hear exactly what was discussed. However, I think its more likely than 
not that AXA didnt advise or recommend Ms M to downgrade the existing worldwide policy. 
This means it didnt need to make sure it was suitable for Mr and Ms M. It did have to give 
them enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy though so that they 
could decide if it was right for them.
The renewal paperwork AXA sent Mr and Ms M in March 2019 included a membership 
certificate. Page 2 of that certificate sets out the available trip length cover  up to 65 days 
per trip, with an annual maximum of 183 days. AXAs Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) also says that CW (comprehensive world) cover includes a maximum trip 
length of 65 days. So Im satisfied its clear that under Mr and Ms Ms old policy, they had 
cover for trips lasting up to 65 days.
AXA acknowledges that during the downgrade call, its call handler didnt discuss trip 
duration limits with Ms M. I think it may have been helpful if the call handler had done so. But 
it seems that the reason Mr and Ms M decided to downgrade their policy was because they 
were only planning to travel in Europe. AXA says Ms M told the call handler that she and Mr 
M generally only travelled to two European destinations. Theres no suggestion that they 
explained their full holiday plans to the call handler or indicated that their holidays would last 
around a month. So I dont think the call handler was put on notice of a potential issue with 
the downgrading of the cover.
So Ive turned to consider the information AXA provided to Mr and Ms M about the policy. 
Ive first considered the updated membership certificate which was sent to them on 4 April 
2019. Page 2 sets out the Schedule of Benefits for standard European cover and lists the 
available limits of cover for each policy benefit. Section 10 is called Trip Length and says:  
Up to 25 days per trip with an annual maximum of 65 days.  
The IPID also includes a section called Are there any restrictions on cover? This says: 
There is no cover for any single overseas journey which lasts, or which was planned or 
expected to last, more than 25 days (SE). And turning to the policy handbook, which forms 
the basis of Mr and Ms Ms contract with AXA, page 20 sets out the maximum length of a 
trip journey. This section says:
Maximum length of an overseas journey
There will be no benefit for any single overseas journey which lasts, or which was planned
or expected to last, more than the maximum number of days shown below, even if the
period of cover crosses a renewal date- Standard 25 days.Taken together, I think the totality of the information AXA provided to Mr and Ms M about the 
European cover was clear enough to highlight that cover for future trips would be limited to 
up to 25 days of cover. This means I think AXA did give them enough clear information so 
that they could decide if the policy was right for them. Ive also borne in mind that the policy 
terms highlight the applicable cancellation rights, which explain that a policyholder can 
cancel a policy within 14-days if it isnt right for them. I think then that Mr and Ms M had 
enough clear information to be put on notice that the European cover may not have met their 
needs; to cancel it and to upgrade their cover back to Worldwide insurance.
This means that overall, I dont think AXA mis-sold the European cover to Mr and Ms M. As 
such, I dont think AXA needs to pay their claim or refund their policy premium. Its clear that 
Mr and Ms Ms trip was longer than their trip limit, which is why AXA turned down their claim. 
It appears from their booking invoice that their trip may have been booked as part of a 
package. So its open to them to approach their travel provider to look into whether they are 
due any accommodation refund under any applicable industry rules.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman