DRN-1552097
The complaint
Mr. K complains that a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase (HP) Agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK)plc (Santander) was mis sold to him as it doesnt achieve the 
advertised miles per gallon (mpg). He would like the car repaired or replaced
What happened
Mr. K says he took out a HP Agreement with Santander in October 2018 for a new car. He 
says the car was advertised with a miles per gallon figure of 47-50 miles. Mr. K says he only 
managed to achieve 27 mpg on the day he got the car. And since then has only achieved 
around 30 mpg
Mr. K says the mileage is an important factor for him as he uses the car for work. And if he 
had known the realistic mpg was much lower than advertised, he wouldnt have gone ahead 
with the HP Agreement.
Santander said no faults had been found with Mr. Ks car that would impact on the mpg 
achieved. An independent report, and a prior assessment by a garage, both achieved similar 
mpg of 37 and 36 respectively. It said official fuel consumption figures are based on a 
laboratory environment. Actual mpg figures can be affected by a wide range of factors.
It felt there were no grounds to allow the car to be rejected and no evident fault to be 
repaired. It said it had offered to install a log into Mr. Ks car to monitor to analyse 
performance based on driving style and conditions, but Mr. K turned this down. It also 
offered an early termination on payment of a fee which Mr. K also declined.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He found an independent inspection concluded 
the 37 mpg it achieved was in line with the age and mileage of the car. And that various 
factors such as the condition of the road, the speed driven and driving style amongst other 
factors could influence the mpg.  He found the manufacturer published mpg gave a range of 
between 47.3-50.4 mpg but noted that these figures would be achieved under controlled 
conditions. He didnt find any evidence of a fault with the car or of any misrepresentation.
Santander accepted this view, but Mr. K didnt. He insisted the car was mis sold to him as it 
could never achieve the mpg advertised
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr. K feels strongly about his complaint. So, I appreciate he is going to be disappointed at 
Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator.
Mr. K has sent in a lot of detailed information for me to consider and I would like to reassure 
him I have looked at all of that.  Mr. K thinks the car was sold to him with fuel consumption 
figures based on an old method of testing. 
I need to make it clear that in this complaint I have had to consider if Santander did anything 
wrong. What I feel is most important here is the information Mr. K had at the point of sale. 
And the inspections carried out on the car and their findings.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr. Ks car achieves around 36/37 mpg. That has been 
evidenced by tests carried out by both a garage and an independent inspection. What I must 
consider is if the car was mis sold to Mr. K as he has told us the car was advertised with a 
mpg figure of 47.
Mr. K has given us a copy of the advertisement for the car which states a mpg figure of 47. I 
can understand why, from that advertisement, Mr. K might have expected to achieve in the 
region of 47 mpg. However, the advertisement is qualified by a statement that says the 
information has been provided by a third party. So, I dont think that Mr. K can have 
assumed that mpg figure was guaranteed. And I havent been given any evidence to show 
Santander could have reasonably thought the information was incorrect.
I dont know what Mr. K was told at the point of sale. He has told us that the mileage was 
particularly important for him as he uses the car for work. So  I think its likely Mr. K may have 
asked about mileage given its importance to him. But I would be surprised if he had been 
told 47mpg was an absolute guaranteed figure. I think most consumers might expect a 
mileage figure to vary according to a variety of factors. And the advertisement does state the 
information has been provided by another party.
Mr. K has also given us the manufacturers emission and fuel consumption figs which for his 
model of car state 42.6 mpg in urban areas and 50.4 outside of urban areas. This 
information however is qualified by several statements. Specifically, these states these 
figures do not guarantee a certain level of fuel consumption, the figures are achieved under 
controlled test conditions and so wouldnt necessarily accord with fuel consumption on the 
road which could be influenced by several factors such as driving style and road conditions.
From this I would conclude that the figures stated are a guide not an absolute guarantee.
Finally, I have considered the independent inspection carried out on the car. That achieved a 
mpg of 37 which is almost identical to the garage test which achieved 36 mpg. Mr. Ks car 
had a mileage of just over 12,000 when the inspection was carried out. The inspector 
concluded the mileage was acceptable for the age and recorded mileage of the car. It 
explained that there are numerous factors that mean cars dont achieve a manufacturers 
fuel economy figures such as road surface, weather conditions and extra usage for example 
air condition to name but a few.
I understand Mr. K was given the opportunity to have a device fitted to his car that would log 
his fuel use, driving style and conditions but Mr. K declined this offer. Thats unfortunate as it 
may have helped explain why Mr. k achieves the mpg that he does. We have gone back and 
asked Mr. K about this. He said he was reluctant to pay for this and I can understand that. 
But also, that he feels that his driving style is not the issue. I dont think we can know that for 
sure  it might not explain the total variance of mpg figures, but it might explain some. 
Mr. K has given me detailed information to support his view that the manufacturer used an 
old method of calculating mpg figures. In his view that is the sole reasons for the difference 
in mpg advertised and mpg achieved.  But I have no evidence that Santander was aware of 
that at the point of sale. So, on that basis I dont believe the car was mis sold to Mr. K. So I 
dont feel I can reasonably ask Santander to either replace the car or allow Mr K to reject it.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman