DRN-3228293
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt tell him his whole of life policy 
failed a review in 2009. And that as a result, there has been a significant reduction in the life 
sum assured.
What happened
Mr S purchased a whole of life policy through an independent financial adviser (IFA) in 1989. 
Aviva have since taken responsibility for the administration of the policy. The policy had an 
initial premium of £50 per month and £60,000 of life cover. After three years the premium 
reduced to £15 per month as there had been an extra premium of £35 for mortality risk over 
this period. The sum assured remained unchanged.
In September 2019, Mr S was told the sum assured on his policy had reduced. Mr S 
complained to Aviva. He said that no one had made him aware before 2019 the cover had 
reduced.
Aviva provided a final response and didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd sent a 
review letter to Mr S in 2009 to the address they held for him, but it had been returned as 
gone away. And, shortly after this they issued a copy of the review letter to the IFA who was 
servicing the policy and asked that it be forwarded to Mr S. As they didnt receive a response 
from Mr S by the deadline for the review, Aviva reduced the sum assured and the premium 
of £15 was maintained.
Mr S complained to our service in January 2020 and one of our Investigators looked into 
things for him. Our Investigator explained the policy was a whole of life plan and that the 
sum assured wasnt guaranteed for life, but it would be reviewed after 10 years. And, in this 
case, Aviva did send the review letter in 2009 to the address they held for Mr S. When this 
was returned they took the additional step of sending it on to the IFA servicing the policy. 
Therefore, our Investigator thought Aviva took reasonable steps to ensure Mr S was aware 
of the review and that the sum assured would fall if he didnt increase his premium. And he 
didnt think Aviva needed to take any further action.
Mr S didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr S and Aviva have waited since July 2020 for an Ombudsman to consider 
this complaint. I apologise to both Mr S and Aviva for the long delay. Weve had many more 
complaints to review over this period than we expected, and this has contributed to why the 
final decision has been delayed. Weve taken on more Investigators and Ombudsmen over 
the last year to help us reduce our wait times, but Im very sorry its taken so long to decide 
this complaint.
I want to reassure Mr S Ive reviewed and considered all the comments he submitted after 
our Investigator issued his thoughts on the matter. And just because I havent specifically 
referred to something doesnt mean that its not been considered. I will address what I 
consider the key comments in my final decision, but for very much the same reasons given 
by our Investigator, I wont be asking Aviva to take any further action.
The sale of the policy took place over 30 years ago. Understandably, neither Aviva nor Mr S 
have been able to provide all of the point of sale documents from the time. Its likely that 
Aviva would have sent Mr S a policy schedule after the sale, along with a document 
explaining the policy in more detail. But, again these documents are not available from Aviva 
or Mr S. 
Mr S says that he wasnt told the sum assured was subject to review, and he thought the 
sum assured was guaranteed for the rest of his life. Mr S has provided a copy of the original 
illustration the IFA provided. And hes pointed me towards a letter he received from his IFA 
at the time of the sale. This letter said that after three years the premium would reduce to 
£15 per month for the rest of the term
I acknowledge the letter from the IFA and why Mr S thought this meant the premium would 
not change. However, Aviva arent responsible for what Mr S IFA may have told him at the 
time of the sale as Aviva didnt sell the policy. I note the original IFA transferred all of their 
existing files to another IFA in 2006 and the first IFA is now closed.
Ive seen the policy is a unit linked plan that provided life cover on a maximum sum assured 
basis. The benefits of the policy are dependent on the investment performance of the funds 
into which the premiums were paid and the ongoing charge for life cover. As a customer gets 
older, so the charge for the life cover increases. Generally, these policies are reviewed after 
the first 10 years. And a review will either require no change to the premium to maintain the 
life cover or an increase in premium to maintain the sum assured. Or, if the provider doesnt 
receive a response, the premium would remain the same and the sum assured would 
decrease.
Ive seen a copy of the review letter Aviva sent to Mr S in 2009. This shows that up until this 
review, the investment performance had been sufficient to maintain the sum assured. It 
therefore seems likely to me that any review in 1999 would have said the premium of £15 
per month was enough to maintain the cover for a further 10 years. Neither Mr S nor Aviva 
have provided a copy of the 1999 review, but its likely any such review would not have 
alerted Mr S to any change in life cover.
So, the crux of Mr Ss complaint is that Aviva didnt tell him in 2009 the cover couldnt be 
maintained with a premium of £15 per month.
Im satisfied Aviva took reasonable steps to inform Mr S in 2009 that the sum assured 
couldnt be maintained with a premium of £15 per month. Aviva wrote to Mr S at the address 
they held, but the letter was returned. I cant say why the letter was returned as gone away, 
but I have considered whether Aviva took any other steps to try and get the review to Mr S.
In this case, Aviva wrote to the IFA who serviced the policy and enclosed a copy of the 
review letter for them to pass on to Mr S. I consider this was a reasonable course of action 
for Aviva to take in the circumstances. 
Its unfortunate the letter Aviva sent to Mr S was returned, and that Mr S didnt receive any 
correspondence from the IFA. However, I dont consider Aviva did anything wrong here as 
they took reasonable steps to make Mr S aware of the review in 2009. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman