DRN-4441113
The complaint
Miss K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund money she lost in an 
investment scam.
What happened
What Miss K told us:
Scam one:
Miss K was seeking to find ways of generating a second income. She needed to do this as 
the pandemic had meant she couldnt work for a long period. She had no investment 
experience.
She saw an investment company on Facebook which appeared genuine. It had 2,000 
followers. She contacted the company and was given an account manager. She went 
through various Know Your Customer processes. She was encouraged to invest £1,160 by 
sending money to her crypto wallet, and then to the investment firm. In September 2022, she 
wanted to withdraw funds but as told she had to pay a fee of £2,200 to do that, so she sent 
this also. 
Miss K sent a total of £3,360 to the investment firm. Miss Ks representatives told us this 
amount was refunded by the scammers (to another bank account in Miss Ks name) and so 
we didnt need to consider this part of Miss Ks complaint  but it is shown here for context:
Date Beneficiary/ Method Amount
5 May 2022 Crypto wallet/ debit card £860
12 May 2022 Crypto wallet/ debit card £300
19 September 2022 Crypto wallet/ debit card £2,200
Total loss  scam one £3,360
 
Scam Two:
Later in May 2022, Miss K was contacted by phone by an assumed representative of a 
bitcoin firm. She was told she had £6,000 sat in an account, due to be paid. Miss K thought 
this was to do with the first scam, and so believed the story. She was told that to get access 
to these funds, she needed to make three separate payments upfront. She sent £4,051 to 
another crypto wallet from her HSBC account. The scammer then cut all contact with Miss K 
and after two months, she realised the £6,000 wasnt going to be paid and she had been 
scammed. The payments were:
Date Beneficiary/ Method Amount
17 May 2022 Crypto wallet/ faster payment £1
18 May 2022 Crypto wallet/ faster payment £50
19 May 2022 Crypto wallet/ faster payment £1,000
19 May 2022 Crypto wallet/ faster payment £3,000
Total loss  scam two £4,051
 
Miss K feels ashamed and embarrassed by what happened. She couldnt eat, or speak to 
anyone about the scam. She has had to work lots of extra hours, including late nights and 
weekends  to try to make up for the losses shes suffered.
What HSBC said:
Regarding scam two, HSBC said they couldnt help, as Miss K had sent the funds to an 
account in her own name  her crypto wallet  and had then sent the money to the 
fraudulent account.
Our investigation so far:
Miss K, via her representative, brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. 
She said:
- We didnt look into scam one as Miss Ks representatives told us she had refunds for 
that.
- The payments werent unusual or suspicious in appearance compared to Miss Ks 
normal account activity. She made payments of more than the scam payments 
during the 12 months prior to the scam. Therefore, she didnt consider HSBC 
shouldve been alert to or question the payments.
- She noted that for the first payment of £1 on 17 May 2022, HSBCs systems couldnt 
complete a Confirmation of Payee (COP) check. This was because the payees bank 
didnt provide that facility. But Miss K confirmed she wished to go ahead in any case.
- Miss K had been the victim of a prior scam in February 2022  HSBC had managed 
to get back £203 of the £210 Miss K paid. And at that time, HSBC provided Miss K 
with scam education information. This was prior to scam one and scam two.
Miss K didnt agree. She said the two payments of £1,000 and £3,000 on the same day 
totalled £4,000  and this was was unusual and suspicious. A tailored warning shouldve 
been provided, especially given how common such investment scams are. She asked that 
her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman, and so it has come to me to make a final 
decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Miss K has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Miss K didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary and in this case, the payments were made to Miss Ks own account - her crypto 
wallet
I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss K when 
he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
The first important matter here is whether this were payments that HSBC might reasonably 
have considered unusual, and therefore whether they shouldve held or stopped the 
payments and contacted Miss K about them. 
I looked at Miss Ks account history with HSBC for the previous 12 months. And I dont think 
the payments were unusual for her. For example, there were regular faster payments each 
month of £1,100. And I could also see payments of £1,200 and £36,000 (June 2021); £1,337 
(July 2021); £25,000 (August 2021); and £2,000 (December 2021). So, given this, I dont 
consider the payments in question to be particularly unusual such that HSBC might 
reasonably have intercepted them and contacted Miss K.
And in this connection, theres a balance to be struck: HSBC has obligations to be alert to 
fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in 
every transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this 
case, I think HSBC  acted reasonably in processing the payments.
HSBC also told us, and showed us evidence that Miss K had been the victim of a scam in 
February 2022  and while HSBC managed to get some of the money back, they also 
provided scam warning information to her then  including investment fraud information. But, despite this, Miss K went ahead and made further payments to what she thought was a 
crypto currency investment.
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether HSBC took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. And here, theres no evidence 
that they did so. Ive therefore considered this  but as the payments were sent to Miss Ks 
crypto wallet and then to the scam investment firm, I think there was little prosect in any case 
of recovering any of the money. So - I set that aspect aside.
Miss K has lost a lot of money. Shes explained why the money was important to her, and 
the impact her losses have had. I was sorry to learn of her circumstances. She will therefore 
be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman