DRN-1586447
 
The complaint
Mr B says Northern Bank Limited (Northern Bank) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy Mr B took out in 2003 alongside a 
personal loan. The policy covered Mr B against accidents, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Northern Bank disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case. 
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our adjudicator and for much the 
same reasons.
Mr B has told our service he wasnt given a choice to have PPI and this comes across as 
plausible.
Northern Bank says it wouldve sold the PPI policy during a phone call. Given the time thats 
passed, I understand why Northern Bank doesnt still have a record of the call. But it means 
that I havent seen compelling evidence that this call actually took place, nor any record of 
who called who or what was said. Northern Bank has pointed to a call script that it says 
would have been used, but I can see that this script is dated from a few months after the 
sale took place. So Northern Bank hasnt been able to send us any script from the time of 
sale or shortly before that its adviser mightve used either.
So I cant be certain of what happened. But taking into account what Ive been told in this 
complaint by Mr B and the lack of sales documents, I cant be reasonably satisfied that 
Northern Bank made it clear Mr B had a choice about buying PPI or that he chose it. And 
I have no evidence which shows that he did choose it. The only evidence I have from the 
sale is a sample credit agreement that Northern Bank says is similar to the one used at the 
time that Mr B would have completed. But even if I were to accept that this form was similar 
to the one used in Mr Bs sale, it still would have been sent after the sale took place. It has 
not been able to provide any evidence to support how it says it sold the PPI policy during the 
phone call.
In the particular circumstances of Mr Bs complaint, I havent seen enough information to 
make me think its likely Northern Bank gave Mr B a fair choice about buying PPI, or that Mr B actively chose it. So it follows that I think this policy was most likely to have been mis-sold. 
Northern Bank should now put things right.
Putting things right
Mr B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been. He 
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost it more to repay the loan than it would 
have. So Mr B needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Northern Bank should:
 
Work out and pay Mr B the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid without PPI.  
 
Work out and pay Mr B the difference between what he cost to pay off the loan and 
what he would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
 
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr B paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Northern Bank can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Northern Bank to take off tax from this interest. Northern 
Bank must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Northern Bank Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman