DRN-4305177
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited renewed his car insurance 
policy without his permission and attempted to collect the premium using card details he 
asked it not to save. Mr W is unhappy that he has to declare a cancellation by an insurer 
when applying for future insurance.
What happened
Mr W bought a car insurance policy with Admiral in May 2021 which automatically renewed. 
In 2022 Mr W discussed adding another vehicle to the policy by phone. Mr W says he asked 
Admiral not to store his card details in this call.
The policy was set for renewal in May 2023 and Admiral sent Mr W a renewal invite by email 
three weeks before. 
As Admiral didnt hear from Mr W, it renewed the policy. However, Admiral wasnt able to 
collect the renewal premium from the card details it held, so it contacted Mr W. 
Mr W was unhappy about the fact that his policy had renewed and that Admiral had tried to 
collect a payment. He didnt agree he owed any money and said he didnt want Admiral to 
renew his policy. 
Admiral cancelled Mr Ws policy due to non-payment. It charged Mr W a cancellation fee and 
for the time it provided insurance. 
Mr W complained to Admiral but it didnt uphold his complaint. So he asked us to look at his 
complaint. 
Our Investigator thought Admiral hadnt done anything wrong. Mr W doesnt agree and 
wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral provided the following information about renewal to Mr W;
Important information about your Policy Renewal
Unless you have selected otherwise, we will automatically renew your policy on its 
renewal date and apply for your renewal premium from the payment details you have 
already provided.
We will contact you by your chosen method of communication before your renewal to 
confirm your policy terms and renewal price.
If you do not want your policy to renew, or wish to opt out of automatic renewal, you 
can do this free of charge when accepting a new policy or by contacting us online or 
by phone at any time before your renewal date.
Mr W says he was asked by Admiral when he spoke to it on the phone in 2022 if it could 
save his card details. He says he remembers he asked Admiral not to do this. 
Admiral says it doesnt have a recording of the call. Mr W says there is a lack of evidence 
that he didnt make the request for his card details not to be saved, given Admiral doesnt 
have a recording of the key call. 
While it isnt possible to decide what was discussed about the card, I can see that Admiral 
emailed Mr W in good time before the renewal date of 14 May 2023 to enable him to make 
contact with it to stop the renewal then. And even if Mr W asked Admiral not to save the card 
details, there isnt anything to suggest he asked Admiral not to renew his policy. 
In the renewal notice, Admiral provided details of the card it intended to collect the premium 
from and a contact number for Mr W to call if he didnt want to renew his policy or if any 
details had changed. 
Mr W accessed the online portal where his policy documents were stored - and emailed 
Admiral - after the renewal date. So by then, the policy was in force. 
As Admiral couldnt collect the premium which was correctly due, and after notifying Mr W of 
this with reminders, it issued a notice of cancellation to Mr W by email and letter. 
I understand Mr W is unhappy about the wording Admiral provided in its final response letter 
about a customers duty to ensure their taxed vehicle is insured. He says his car was 
declared off road and so what Admiral wrote didnt apply in his circumstances. Mr W says 
he is disappointed that we didnt include this in our investigation. 
Whether Mr Ws car was declared off road isnt something for Admiral - or us to investigate. 
I dont think Admiral did anything wrong in providing general information about the law and 
what can happen if a car is taxed, but not insured. And it did provide the caveat; unless you 
have declared it (the vehicle) off road. In any event, it doesnt have any bearing on the 
renewal process - and whether Admiral acted reasonably in following that process. 
Ultimately there is no evidence Mr W asked for the policy not to be renewed until after 
Admiral renewed it. This means that I cant safely conclude that Admiral acted unreasonably 
in renewing the policy. And as it did, as Admiral didnt receive payment from Mr W and 
cancelled the policy, I think Admiral acted in line with the policy. So Im not asking Admiral to 
change anything. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W. My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman