DRN-3173005
The complaint
Mr W complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) imposed unfair 
charges for damages at the end of his car finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
Mr W entered into a contract hire agreement under which he agreed to return the car free 
from any defects or condition that would be in breach of statutory requirements. The 
agreement sets out in broad terms what is acceptable wear and tear and what is not.
The car was collected by an agent acing for MBFS and the collection report notes that a 
second inspection is required. The form is not signed by Mr W, but is marked covid, 
presumably since touching documents was deemed unsafe at the time. I note Mr W says he 
was told the car was in good condition, but the second inspection at the agents premises 
showed several defects which went beyond fair wear and tear. This resulted in a bill for 
£580.
MBFS rejected Mr Ws complaint and so he brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He reviewed the 
agents report and photographs and conclude the charge was fair.
Mr W didnt agree and said he shouldnt be responsible for any damage found after 
collection. He also had expressed the view that the charges were excessive.  He also said 
that a chemical had been applied to make the damage look worse.
I have also reviewed the report and photographs and I can see there has been a fair amount 
of damage, much of which has not been charged by MBFS. It also doesnt look like new 
damage which would have been caused in the short period after the car was collected. I am 
also satisfied the damage for which charges have been levied goes beyond fair wear and 
tear and is chargeable.
I appreciate Mr W may have presumed that as the detailed damage wasnt specified at the 
time of collection that meant he was not liable for it. That is not the case. In short that car 
was damaged and under the agreement Mr W is liable for the charges imposed. Finally, I 
would add that level of charges doe does not appear unreasonable to me. I suspect if he had 
the work carried out by an approved dealer privately he would have incurred similar charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman