DRN-3162148
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly declined to refund 
£280 of transactions on his account he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 2 August 2020, Mr D lost his debit card. He still couldnt find it the next day, so he 
cancelled it using his Nationwide online banking app. Mr D says he gave his phone to his 
son on 4 August 2020 to play with and that his son played an online gambling games 
through a gambling app on Mr Ds phone. Mr D says his son didnt have his permission to do 
so and that he had lost £280 as a result.
Mr D asked Nationwide to refund the transactions he says he didnt authorise, saying they 
shouldnt have gone through because hed cancelled his card. Nationwide declined Mr Ds 
complaint. It said Mr Ds card was linked to his account and that any payments previously 
made on the card were transferred to the new card in accordance with the VISA terms and 
conditions.
Mr D didnt agree, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
his complaint. He said it was set out in Nationwides terms of business that it could transfer 
payments to a new card, if they were recurring payments to an established payee, as was 
the case with the payee in question on Mr Ds account. And that Mr D had given his son 
apparent authority to make the transactions, by letting him use a phone with all of the 
necessary payment details saved on it.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators outcome. He said the payments were charged to the old 
card and that they should have been declined. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were the transactions authorised?
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise transactions themselves. But, if a customer has 
given a third party apparent authority to make transactions, those transactions are treated 
as having been authorised by the customer. 
Mr D says he gave his son his phone to play with, and that his son made the transactions 
without his permission. However, that doesnt necessarily mean Nationwide has to treat the 
transactions as unauthorised and therefore refund them. If a customer does something that 
amounts to a representation that a third party has permission to make payments from the 
customers account, the bank is entitled to rely on that representation and treat the 
transactions as authorised. That representation doesnt need to be deliberate.
In this case, Mr D says he gave his son his phone and that the phone had the gambling app 
on it, together with the ability to make payments to that app. Although Mr D says he didnt 
give his son permission to make the gambling transactions, Mr D enabled his son to do so 
by giving him the phone containing the payment details. In such circumstances, our service 
would consider the payment to have been made with apparent authority. That is to say that 
Nationwide can accept the payments as if they were made and authorised directly by Mr D.
So for that reason, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly when it rejected Mr Ds complaint.
Should the payment have been blocked?
Mr D has provided screenshots that he says show the payments were charged to the card 
he had cancelled. And that he shouldnt be liable for the payments because Nationwide 
shouldnt have allowed them to clear against a cancelled card.
However, Im afraid I dont agree Nationwide should have prevented the payments. The 
terms and conditions of Mr Ds account state that, in order to cancel payment arrangements 
such as the one in questions, the customer must contact Nationwide on the phone, in branch 
or by secure message on internet banking. Mr D didnt do this.
The reason for this is that the payment is linked to Mr Ds account, so simply cancelling the 
card doesnt prevent a recurring payment. Ive seen from Mr Ds statements that he had 
made payments to the same merchant as recently as two days before the disputed 
transactions, so Im satisfied that Nationwide acted correctly by treating it as a recurring 
payment. As our investigator said, that system is in place for customers convenience, 
whereby payments for ongoing subscriptions, insurance policies and the like can continue 
uninterrupted, even if a customer forgets to contact the relevant parties with details of a new 
card.
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I 
see no basis on which I can reasonably tell Nationwide to refund the transactions Mr D 
disputes.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman