DRN-3761544
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited trading as AXA Health hasnt given him a 
rebate for his health insurance premiums. 
What happened
Mr T has a private health insurance policy with AXA. His wife has the same policy, with the 
same level of cover as Mr T. In May 2022 Mrs T received a rebate of around £400 as AXA 
had identified that she was part of a small group of customers who they thought hadnt 
received fair value from their insurance policy. 
Mr T didnt receive a rebate. He complained to AXA, but they said their decision not to give 
him a rebate was fair. So, Mr T made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
AXA had acted fairly. He explained that Mrs T fell within a specific group of customers who 
qualified for a refund, but Mr T didnt. So, he didnt think AXA needed to pay Mr T a refund. 
Mr T didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, he said 
that he didnt think AXA had used logical rules to decide which of their customers should get 
a refund. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the impact of Covid-19 AXA agreed to consider the impact on its claim spend and 
pass on any savings to their customers. This was referred to as their price promise. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt receive a rebate under that scheme. 
Mrs T received a rebate because AXA said it had identified a small group of customers who 
hadnt received fair value from their insurance product. So, the key issue for me to decide is 
whether it is unfair that AXA didnt refund Mr T as well. 
I think AXA has acted fairly because: 
AXA decided to give some of their customers a Special Value Rebate. These were 
provided to individual members who met a specific set of criteria. That criteria 
included a specified age and customers who held a particular type of policy. 
AXA made this decision because this group of customers had particularly low levels 
of claims during the pandemic. Thats not to say that Mrs T had claimed less than 
Mr T. Rather, AXA identified a group of their customers who made fewer claims 
during the relevant period of time. 
Mrs T was over the relevant age and held the relevant type of policy. So, she was 
given a Special Value Rebate. 
Mr T didnt meet the relevant criteria, even though he had the same policy and paid 
the same premiums as Mrs T. 
Im satisfied that AXA has adequately explained why Mr T didnt fall into the relevant 
group of customers. Put simply, he didnt meet the criteria, but Mrs T did. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman