DRN-4015262
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc misled her about whether it would offer a mortgage. 
It then declined her application as she wanted to buy an age restricted property. Mrs S feels 
she was discriminated against.
What happened
In March 2022 Mrs S applied to Santander to port her interest only mortgage. Mrs S has 
health problems and wanted to move into a property better suited to her needs. In late March 
2022 she told Santander the property she wanted to buy was in a managed assisted living 
retirement complex.
Mrs Ss application was initially declined due to affordability concerns. The mortgage adviser 
appealed on Mrs Ss behalf and her application was approved in late April 2022. However 
when the valuation was carried out in May 2022 the valuer said the property wasnt suitable 
security as it was an age restricted retirement flat. This was outside Santanders lending 
policy. Santander declined Mrs Ss application in mid-May 2022.
Santander accepts that Mrs S told it the property was a retirement property and it didnt act 
on this until the valuation. It paid £250 compensation. Mrs S says this isnt enough for the 
distress and upset this caused her, and doesnt even cover her costs.
Our investigator said the property didnt meet Santanders lending criteria. It should have told 
Mrs S this much sooner, which would have avoided some of the distress caused. Our 
investigator said taking into account the effect this had on Mrs S, Santander should pay 
compensation of £700 (in total).
Mrs S didnt agree. She asked for more compensation, including for her legal costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Porting is always dependent on the property the borrower wants to move to being 
acceptable to the lender. Santander doesnt offer mortgages where there are restrictions on 
who can buy the property. The property Mrs S wanted to buy had restrictions in that only 
people over a certain age could buy the property.
Mrs S says she feels discriminated against. Mrs S is right that Santanders policy does affect 
one group of people (those over the minimum age to buy the property) and this is because of 
their age.
The law relating to discrimination is a complex area. Its not the role of this service to make a 
decision on whether theres been a breach of equalities law. Thats the role of the courts. 
While we take relevant law and regulation into account  and the Equality Act 2010 is 
relevant here  whether Santanders policy amounts to discrimination would be a matter for 
the courts to decide.
The Equality Act 2010 allows providers of financial services to make decisions based on 
age, provided any risk assessment is carried out using relevant information from a reliable 
source. And even if Santander cant rely on that exemption, it may still be able to show that 
its actions were a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim, and so not unlawful 
discrimination. 
Santanders policy not to lend when there are restrictions on who can buy a property is 
intended to reduce the risk that it wont be able to recover its loan from the sale of the 
property. Its concern is that restrictions (typically contained in lease agreements) on who can 
buy the property could affect the retirement propertys value and marketability. That seems 
to me to be a reasonable concern, and I accept what Santander says about that.
As I said, its not for me to say whether Santanders policy is wrong or breached the law or 
its regulatory obligations. My role is to make a decision about Mrs Ss complaint in 
accordance with what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
Mrs S was an existing customer, and she needed to move to a more suitable property. Id 
expect Santander to consider her porting request fairly.
This was an interest only mortgage which was outside Santanders lending criteria. There 
were issues with affordability and reduced equity in the new property. There was evidence 
that suggested Mrs S had financial difficulties or problems managing her money in the past, 
and shed missed or been late with mortgage payments in 2021. Mrs S explained what had 
happened, and Santander took into account her circumstances, her health and her need to 
move into a more suitable property when making a lending decision. Santander said it would 
offer the loan Mrs S needed (subject to the property valuation) in late April 2022. Following 
the valuation, Santander told Mrs S it couldnt offer her a mortgage for that property.
I dont think it was unfair for Santander to decline to port Mrs Ss mortgage in this case. The 
property Mrs S wanted to buy didnt meet its lending policy, and I dont think in the 
circumstances it had fairly to waive this. This would have been in addition to the other 
concessions it would have made, related to affordability and the reduced equity in the new 
property.
However, Mrs S went through most of the mortgage application process, including an 
appeal, before her application was declined in mid-May 2022. Santander accepts it should 
have told Mrs S it couldnt lend when it became aware of the type of property. The evidence 
suggests this was 28 March 2022. Santander told Mrs S it couldnt lend on 16 May 2022.
Mrs S has told us how upsetting she found this matter. She needed to move for health 
reasons. She says she was misled by Santander that it would offer a mortgage, and suffered 
considerable distress when this turned out not to be the case. I think its fair that Santander 
offers compensation for this.
Mrs S incurred legal costs in the expectation her sale and purchase would go ahead. I dont 
think Santander is responsible for this. Mrs S paid a deposit to her solicitor in February 2022, 
before contacting Santander. Mrs S says Santander should refund her legal costs because 
she could have stopped her solicitors doing further work. But for this to be fair Id need to 
find that the costs were incurred between 28 March 2022 (when Santander became aware of 
the type of property) and mid-May 2022, and that it was necessary and reasonable for Mrs S 
to incur the costs. I havent seen evidence this was the case. I also need to take into account 
that until Santander issued a mortgage offer, there was no guarantee it would lend. If Mrs S 
incurred costs before this that was at her own risk.Given the various issues, and that the application had initially been declined, I dont think its 
fair to say that Santander misled Mrs S that it would offer a mortgage. I dont think Santander 
could reasonably have known that Mrs S had assumed the mortgage would be approved 
and incurred costs on this basis.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to re-imburse Mrs Ss legal costs. 
As I said, she incurred these costs before receiving a mortgage offer. And I dont think 
Santander misled her that it would certainly offer a mortgage. But it did allow Mrs S to 
continue with her application after late March 2022 when it should have told her it couldnt 
lend. It asked her to provide information and explain her circumstances, which would have 
been inconvenient. When she was told the loan was approved  albeit subject to the 
valuation  this would have raised Mrs Ss expectations.
I must also take Mrs Ss circumstances into account. Her existing property was no longer 
suitable for her. She says it was making her health problems worse. Mrs S told us about the 
effect on her mental health of having her mortgage application declined, two months into the 
process. Santander was entitled to decline the application, and its likely this was the main 
cause of Mrs Ss upset and distress. But the delay in telling her it wouldnt lend added to this. 
In the circumstances, I think compensation of £700 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the additional upset caused by the delay in Santander telling her it couldnt lend.
Mrs S recently told us that shes unwell and living in a property with stairs is difficult for her. 
Mrs S says she wants to move home, but is worried that a similar problem will happen again. 
Im sorry for to hear this, and for the time its taken for Mrs Ss complaint to be resolved. If 
Mrs S makes another porting application, Id expect Santander to consider it fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to pay £700 to Mrs S. It 
can deduct any amounts already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman