DRN-3378665
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as T has complained about delays in Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) 
handling of its claim. 
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will include anything done by the underwriters and 
their agents. 
What happened
T held a business protection insurance policy with Lloyds. On 18 March T claimed on its 
policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. 
Over the next few weeks T sent Lloyds information about its claim. Lloyds contacted T on    
7 April to advise that the information had been passed to the underwriters.
T contacted Lloyds a few times over the next couple of weeks and on 23 April let Lloyds 
know it was unhappy about the delays. 
Lloyds responded on 23 April and apologised for not having kept T updated. They said they 
had recorded the claim promptly and passed the claim to the underwriters on 19 March. 
Lloyds said the additional information T provided was passed to underwriters on 7 April and 
they also chased for progress on 16 April. Lloyds said that while they were doing their best 
to respond in a timely manner, their normal service had been impacted by the high volume of 
claims.
T contacted Lloyds for an update on 27 April. Lloyds replied on 28 April to say they had 
passed on all of the information and would chase for an update. T asked for a further update 
on 30 April. 
On 11 May T complained to Lloyds about the delays and then sent a further letter of 
complaint to Lloyds on 20 May.
On 22 May Lloyds declined Ts claim. 
Lloyds responded to Ts complaint on 30 June. They apologised for the amount of times T 
had needed to chase for information and for not managing its expectations. To compensate 
for any inconvenience Lloyds offered T £75.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, T brought its complaint about the delays to our service. T 
said the delays had caused financial loss to its business as well as distress to the directors. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Lloyds pay T anything further as she thought Lloyds 
had made a fair and reasonable offer compensation. 
T disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that there have been further developments since 23 May, and that Lloyds 
ultimately accepted Ts claim. However, this decision will only deal with any delays between 
18 March and 23 May. Any further delays would need to be considered separately.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ts business. However, I think Lloyds have made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation. Ill explain why.
Its clear that Lloyds didnt handle Ts claim as well as they should have done. As Lloyds 
dont dispute this Im not going to comment on this further. Instead Ill focus my decision on 
the compensation they offered.  
I can understand that Lloyds lack of contact and the time they took to give an answer on Ts 
claim would have caused the directors distress. However, T is the eligible complainant in this 
case and so I can only consider the inconvenience to T as a limited company and not any 
distress experienced by the directors. 
I think that having to chase for updates on a number of occasions would have caused T 
inconvenience. However, given that Lloyds declined the claim on 22 May, Im not persuaded 
that any delay caused T a financial loss. I understand that Lloyds ultimately accepted Ts 
claim, but any complaint about the financial impact or inconvenience of when Lloyds did that 
would need to be considered separately. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome T was hoping for but, overall, I think £75 is a fair and 
reasonable offer for the inconvenience Lloyds caused T up to 23 May. I therefore wont be 
requiring them to pay anything further in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
I think that £75 compensation for inconvenience is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Therefore, my final decision is that Society of Lloyd's should pay T £75 if they havent 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman