Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in May 1999. Mr J says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
Background
Mr J bought the policy in May 1999 when he applied for his credit card. The sale took place 
by way of a postal application.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Barclays has provided us with a copy of Mr Js credit card application form from May 1999. 
This shows Mr J was given the option of adding the PPI to his account. Under the section for 
the PPI, Mr J was presented with a yes and a no box for the PPI. Looking at the credit card 
application form which Mr J signed, I can see he ticked the  yes box for the PPI.  Taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely than not Mr J would have understood the PPI 
was optional. And I dont think he would have selected the cover if he didnt want to take it 
out.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr J got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Barclays hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the policy wording from 1999. 
Because of this, I havent seen the policy wording from the time of sale. But based on what I 
know about these types of policies generally, I think its unlikely that Mr J would have been 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical 
conditions  so I think it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr J about the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But 
Mr J chose to take out the PPI, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
DRN-1155902Mr J has told us he didnt need PPI as he would have received generous sick pay from his 
employer if he was too unwell to work. He says he would have been entitled to six months 
full pay followed by six months reduced pay. Having thought about what Mr J has said about 
his sick pay, I dont think this means he wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this 
because the PPI would have paid out in addition to the sick pay Mr J would have received 
from his employer and would have potentially paid out for longer than he would have 
received full pay  up to 12 months. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mr J was ever 
made redundant or in the unfortunate event of death.
Ive also thought about what Mr J has said about the fact that he could have relied on his 
parents to help him with his credit card repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that the 
PPI wasnt useful for him. While Mr Js parents would want to help, their financial situation 
could change and so their help couldnt always be relied on.
So overall, I think Mr J could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put him off taking out the policy.
My final decision
Based on what Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman