DRN-3711390
The complaint
Mr C complained because Monzo Bank Limited:
- refused to refund him for transactions he said he didnt make; 
- he also complained about service issues; and  
- Monzo closed his account. 
What happened
On 24 June 2022, there was a £260.03 debit from Mr Cs Monzo account. Mr C contacted 
Monzo later that day, and said he hadnt made this transaction. Monzo blocked the account 
and asked Mr C by Chat whether hed been scammed into making the payment, or whether 
he was saying a third party fraudster made it. Mr C didnt reply, and Monzo asked again.
Meanwhile, on 25 June, and Mr C unblocked his account, and there were more debits: two 
debits each for £126.68; one for £24.46 and another for £5.56.
Mr C then replied to Monzo and said the money had been taken without his knowledge, and 
that hed just noticed other transactions as well as the one on 24th.  He said the card was 
supposed to be blocked, and he hadnt made the last five transactions on his account. The 
total disputed was £543.41.
Mr C told Monzo he still had his debit card, and no-one else had had access to his card, PIN, 
phone or other device from which he made payments. He said his phone was password or 
biometrics-protected; no-one else had access to this; and he hadnt written down his PIN.
Monzos fraud team investigated, and told Mr C that after a thorough investigation, it was 
unable to treat the transactions as fraudulent and so it wouldnt reimburse him. It said this 
was based on Mr Cs account history, as well as account activity around the transactions. 
Monzo said it didnt believe the transactions had been authorised by any third party. It also 
said that its terms and conditions allowed it to close any account, and it had therefore closed 
Mr Cs account with immediate effect.
Mr C complained. 
- He said his Monzo account wasnt secure, because of these further fraudulent 
transactions on his account [Mr C had made several previous disputed transaction 
claims];
- He said he was unhappy with the service on phone calls and chat, and that the Fraud 
department didnt call customers direct;
- He was unhappy that Monzo wouldnt reimburse him, and that it had closed his 
account.
In Monzos final response to Mr Cs complaint, it said:
- Mr Cs card and account details had been secure with Monzo;
- The information it had regarding Mr Cs account history, and account activity around 
the disputed transactions, meant that Monzo didnt believe a third party had 
authorised the disputed transactions;
- Although Mr C had found Chat inconvenient, Monzo preferred to use Chat. It did offer 
phone and email support but didnt offer all its support options for this method. Monzo 
said that its fraud team didnt provide an incoming customer phone line;
- It had correctly followed its procedures when closing Mr Cs account on 4 July 2022 
in line with the terms and conditions;
Monzo said that it could see there had been some delays while investigating Mr Cs claim, 
so it offered to pay £30 to an alternative account as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said the disputed transactions were all 
verified using the online banking app, and a device which Mr C had confirmed as genuine. 
Mr C had also used that device to request the card unblock on 25 June, after which the later 
four disputed transactions had taken place. The investigator noted that the times when Mr C 
had asked for the card to be unblocked, matched the times when a disputed transaction had 
been made. So whoever made the transactions knew when the card was blocked and 
unblocked  and it wasnt likely a third party fraudster could have known this. The 
investigator also confirmed that Monzos terms and conditions gave it the right to close an 
account immediately under certain conditions.
Mr C wasnt satisfied. He said the payments had been made when the card was blocked, but 
the investigator explained that the card had been unblocked every time the transactions had 
been made. Mr C asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Disputed transactions
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in June 2022 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Monzo) must show the transaction 
was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Ive seen the computer evidence that 
the payments were authenticated using Mr Cs online banking app, and a device which he 
confirmed as genuine. The disputed payments were authenticated using the PIN code via 
the app on the phone. So the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
Mr C said that no-one else had access to his card, or security information. He hadnt 
reported his card lost or stolen, and hadnt written down his PIN. So theres no clear way in 
which his account could have been compromised.
Ive also considered the fact that Mr C asked Monzo to unblock his account after the first 
disputed transaction on 24 June. It did so  and this resulted in the disputed transactions on 
25 June. Mr C told our investigator that he did this because he needed to use his card for 
emergency purposes. But there are no genuine transactions at the time when the account was unblocked  only the ones Mr C then disputed. Even if a third party fraudster had been 
able to obtain Mr Cs card and security details  which he said he hadnt lost or shared  a 
third party fraudster wouldnt have known exactly when the account was unblocked.
So I consider its more likely than not that Mr C carried out the disputed transactions himself.
Customer service
Mr C complained to Monzo about its chat function. I do understand that not every customer 
likes using chat, but Monzos use of chat as its preferred means of communication was a 
feature of the account which Mr C could reasonably have known when he opened the 
account. I can see that there was a short delay by Monzo during the investigation, but it paid 
Mr C £30 compensation for that. Monzos short delay didnt alter the outcome of his 
complaint, and I consider the £30 compensation was more than fair in all the circumstances 
of this complaint.
Account closure
Monzo closed Mr Cs account without notice on 4 July. Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of Mr Cs account.  Mr C would have agreed to these when he opened the 
account. Under the heading Closing your account these say:
We can close your account by giving you at least two months notice. We may close your 
account or stop you using your card and app immediately if we believe youve:
broken the terms of this agreement

given us false information at any time
given a third party control of your account, phone, card or PIN
I consider that the information Monzo had about Mr Cs activity on his account gave Monzo 
fair and reasonable grounds to close his account immediately, in line with this provision in its 
terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman