DRN-3099295
The complaint
Mr M complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and without carrying 
out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees and charges associated with 
the loan refunded, and an affordable repayment plan put in place. He also believes that 
the interest rate Loans 2 Go charged was unfair.
What happened
In December 2019 Loans 2 Go approved a loan of £1,000 for Mr M, which was scheduled 
to be repaid at approximately £229 per month over a term of 18 months. When assessing 
the application, Loans 2 Go asked Mr M about his financial circumstances and carried out 
a credit check before approving the lending.
Mr M experienced difficulties making the repayments after losing his job, and the loan 
was sold to a third party with the balance outstanding.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and didnt think it was unreasonable of Loans 2 
Go to have lent to Mr M. He disagreed and asked an ombudsman to look at his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, and Ill explain why.
Mr M clearly feels very strongly about his complaint and says that Loans 2 Go should not 
have been able to charge the level of interest it did. But that concern is not one I can 
address. My role is an ombudsman is to consider the specific facts of this case to identify 
whether Loans 2 Go made any mistakes which caused a loss to Mr M. Loans 2 Go was 
permitted to charge the interest rate in question, regulations such as these being a matter 
for the Financial Conduct Authority.
I need to look at whether Loans 2 Go followed the regulations and good industry 
practice when considering Mr Ms loan application. The first question is whether it 
gathered enough information about Mr M and his circumstances. The adjudicator set 
out in detail why he didnt think Loans 2 Gos checks were proportionate, mostly 
because its calculations suggested that Mr M had virtually no financial breathing 
space once repayments were taken into account. Additionally, the credit check carried 
out by Loans 2 Go also revealed concerns about defaults and county court judgements 
(CCJs). Loans 2 Go did not challenge that view, and I agree that its checks were not 
sufficiently in depth, for the same reasons given by the adjudicator.
However, I then need to decide whether further checks would have revealed something 
that ought to have led Loans 2 Go to decline Mr Ms application.
Loans 2 Go could have gathered more information in a range of ways, but Mr M has been 
able to supply us with bank statements from around the time of the loan, along with some 
partial screenshots from a potentially more in-depth credit report. So Ive looked at those to 
see whether there is anything they reveal which should have made it clear to Loans 2 Go 
that this borrowing was not affordable and sustainable for Mr M.
In short, there isnt. The bank statements show fairly limited transactions, mostly to food 
retailers and supermarkets, and that the account was operated within a comparatively 
modest overdraft, that represented only about 30% of Mr Ms monthly net income at the 
time. So there is no evidence of a problematic dependence on borrowing. Indeed, Mr M 
has described how he transferred the vast majority of his income into a savings account 
when he got paid and then only transferred back to his main account to manage that when 
spending required. There is no evidence that he needed more money than Loans 2 Go had 
accounted for to service debts. Or that his monthly outgoings were higher than Loans 2 
Gos income and expenditure (I&E) had estimated. 
As already mentioned, Mr Ms credit file showed several defaulted accounts and a CCJ. 
But by the time he applied for this loan, those problems were sufficiently historic to mean 
that they wouldnt automatically lead to a need to decline the application. There was one 
default from April 2019, which therefore wasnt historic. However, it was for a very small 
amount and having seen Mr Ms bank statements, I cannot discount the possibility that he 
was unwilling, rather than unable, to settle that debt.
So, based on the available evidence, I cannot reach a finding that Loans 2 Go ought to 
have known that this borrowing would not be sustainable for Mr M when it assessed his 
application. It therefore follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
I should also add that as Loans 2 Go no longer owns the debt resulting from this loan, I 
cannot comment on any repayment plan, or treatment of Mr M by the third party that now 
owns the debt. Mr M should liaise with that third party and is able to raise a complaint 
against them if he feels one is necessary.
My final decision
Having considered all the evidence, I dont think that Loans 2 Go Limited did anything 
wrong, so I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman