DRN-3115253
The complaint
Mr N complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) who declined his claim, under his 
home emergency insurance. 
What happened
Mr Ns boiler broke down. He attempted to repair it by isolating the remote-control system, 
putting it into manual and managed to restart the boiler. He said that the repair had cost him 
£60.
The next day he contacted Aviva and made a claim. It sent an engineer who found that the 
boiler had been incorrectly re-wired into the fuse-spur. The engineer told Mr N that he was 
unable to complete a repair on the boiler as the policy didnt cover any work that had been 
carried out by the customer or third-party and not pre-authorised by Aviva. 
Mr N raised a complaint to Aviva. Who maintained that the cover excluded any attempted 
repairs carried out by either the customer or third party not authorised by Aviva. Aviva 
declined to reimburse Mr Ns cost of £60 that he paid to repair his boiler. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr N referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that the policy terms didnt cover work carried out by anyone who hadnt been pre-
authorised by Aviva. As Mr N had accepted that he had carried out the work (because he 
wanted the heating on all the time and is elderly) he chose to repair the boiler. Her view was 
that she didnt think Aviva had been unfair in declining his claim. 
Aviva accepted the view. Mr N did not. He requested a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that Mr N will be disappointed 
with this outcome, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
Mr Ns policy provided cover for boiler breakdowns as well as an annual service. On an 
unlimited claims basis. The cover also provided for the supply of temporary heaters if they 
were needed and stipulated that a claim should be made as soon as a customer was aware 
of the fault. 
Mr N said that his boiler had broken down and he had lost heat in his home. He accepted 
that he had attempted to repair the boiler by isolating the remote-control system, putting it 
into manual, which made the boiler work again. He said that he carried out the repair due to 
him being elderly and needing the heating on. 
Although I understand why Mr N wanted to get the boiler repaired as soon as possible, this 
meant that he didnt report the fault with his boiler as soon as he had become aware of it. As 
he was required to do under the policy terms. 
I note that the policy had a 24-hour claims line operating every day of the year and allowed 
for the supply of temporary heaters. So, because of this, I dont think it was reasonable for 
Mr N to have attempted the repairs himself, as Avivas obligations under the policy, was to 
resolve the fault in as shortest time possible, had it been allowed to do.   
Additionally, the policy exclusions made it clear that any work (or attempted repair) carried 
out by a customer or third-party was excluded from cover and any associated costs incurred 
wouldnt be reimbursed by Aviva, unless those costs had been pre-authorised by Aviva: 
h) any defect, damage or breakdown caused by malicious or wilful action, negligence, 
misuse or third party interference, including any attempted repair or modification to the 
elements covered by this policy, which does not comply with British Standards.
i) the costs of any work carried out by you or persons not authorised by us in advance.
Aviva said that it couldnt complete the repair of the boiler, due to the incorrect wiring its 
engineer found. Im satisfied that the terms of the policy do not cover this. Aviva has 
confirmed that if Mr N were to get the wiring issue resolved, it will send an engineer to carry 
out the repair of the boiler, which I think is a reasonable resolution.
Accordingly, I think Aviva was reasonable when it declined Mr Ns claim and I cant fairly ask 
Aviva to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman