DRN-3730319
The complaint
Mr M has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him fee-
paying Advantage Gold and Reward Black packaged accounts, which were sold to him in 
February 2010 and April 2018 respectively. Mr M has also complained that NatWest 
changed his account to a Select Platinum account in July 2015.
Mr M has given a number of reasons why he says that they were mis-sold. These include 
that, he was not told about the fees or benefits that were included with the Advantage Gold 
account. Mr M says he didnt consent to the migration of his account and he also says he 
was told he needed the Reward Black packaged account to obtain a loan, credit cards or 
mortgage. Mr M says that hes not used the benefits of the Reward Black account during the 
time hes had the account.
What happened
NatWest says that Mr M complained too late about the sale of the Advantage Gold account, 
for our service to be able to consider that part of the complaint. NatWest does however 
agree that our service can consider the more recent packaged accounts.
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they concluded that Mr M had complained too 
late about the sale of the Advantage Gold account, for our service to be able to consider that 
part of the complaint. They then went on to say that they didnt think that the other packaged 
accounts had been mis-sold either. 
Mr M disagreed with the conclusions reached by the adjudicators, so the matter was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision, in which I explained why our service is unable to 
consider the complaint regarding the sale of the Advantage Gold account.
This decision will therefore focus on Mr Ms complaint about the sale of the other packaged 
accounts  namely the Select Platinum and the Reward Black account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
incomplete, as is the case here, I have to make my decision based on what I think most 
likely happened, based on everything that is available. And having considered everything, I 
dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Select Platinum migration
Mr M has complained that his account was changed without his consent to a Select Platinum 
account.
I should start by saying that the change to Mr Ms account occurred because NatWest had 
decided to withdraw the Advantage Gold account at this stage. And it was entitled to do this. 
So I cant say that NatWest did anything wrong because it decided to withdraw the 
Advantage Gold account from the range of accounts it offers to its customers. 
However, when NatWest withdrew the Advantage Gold account, to ensure account holders 
continued to have access to similar insurance benefits, for a similar price, it moved all of its 
customers that had this account on to the Select Platinum account. This was because the 
benefits on the Select Platinum account most closely matched the ones that were on the 
Advantage Gold account. As this wasnt a further sale of a packaged account, NatWest 
didnt need to get Mr Ms agreement before making this change to his account. What 
NatWest needed to do however, was notify Mr M about the upcoming change to his account 
and to explain what his options were.
NatWest says that in June 2015, it wrote to all Advantage Gold account holders to say that 
the Advantage Gold account was being removed from its range of packaged accounts and 
that customers would be moved to the Select Platinum account, because it included similar 
benefits. The letter explained that the cost of the account would initially remain the same (at 
£15 per month) before increasing to £16 a month later on in 2016, to match the existing cost 
of the Select Platinum account. The letter also explained that if account holders no longer 
needed the insurance benefits, they could choose to opt out of the migration so that their 
account would be changed to a fee-free account instead
NatWest has provided a sample of what it says it sent to Mr M, and NatWests records show 
that it held the correct address for Mr M on its records around the time the letter was sent. 
Given this, I think it likely wouldve been received by him. 
However, even if it were the case that Mr M didnt receive the notification (although I think he 
did), I still think it likely that he wouldve continued with the Select Platinum account, had he 
received the account migration notification. I say this because Mr M applied to add the 
Reward bolt-on to his account in December 2016, which resulted in his account being 
renamed as a Reward Platinum account. This bolt-on, for a small additional fee, meant that 
in addition to the existing Select Platinum benefits, Mr M was also able to earn cash back on 
some of the payments made from his account.
NatWest has provided a copy of the application form for the Reward bolt-on  which was 
signed by Mr M. And in the application form, it clearly set out a summary of the insurance 
benefits, as well as the key exclusions and eligibility criteria applicable to those benefits  
which came as standard with the existing Select Platinum account. And it explained that Mr 
M had 14 days in which to change his mind, should he wish to do so. Therefore I find it 
unlikely that Mr M wouldve opted out of his account being migrated to a Select Platinum 
account, given that he was willing to pay even more for the same benefits (plus the 
cashback reward) around 18 months after his account was migrated. 
So overall, I think that NatWest in all likelihood did inform Mr M of the changes being made 
to his account, and gave him a reasonable amount of time to opt out of the Select Platinum 
migration, if he no longer needed the insurance products provided with the account.
Reward Black account
Mr M says that the Reward Black account was mis-sold, largely because he says he was led 
to believe he had to agree to it to obtain a loan, credit cards or mortgage.
NatWest has provided Mr Ms product application history. And from this I can see that Mr M 
had successfully taken out a loan in May 2017 and a mortgage in October 2016. NatWest has also said that Mr M had already applied to take out a credit card in December 2016. And 
I can see that Mr M was able to add an overdraft facility to his account in January 2018. 
So, given that Mr M was clearly able to apply for a variety of lending products before he 
upgraded his account to a Reward Black account, Im not persuaded that Mr M agreed to the 
account because he was misled into thinking he had to have it, to obtain further lending. I 
think its just as likely (if not more so) that he agreed to the account because he wanted to 
access the benefits it provided  such as access to NatWests Premier banking service. 
Therefore, based on the evidence that is available, I think Mr M in all likelihood agreed to the 
account, knowing that it was optional and that he didnt have to have that account if he didnt 
want it.
NatWest says that the Reward Black account was sold on a non-advised basis. But even if I 
were to conclude that the account had been recommended to Mr M, it looks as though he 
was able to make use of a number of the insurance benefits that were included with the 
account. And I can see that NatWest did remind Mr M at the time to check his existing 
insurance policies, to ensure that he cancelled any that were no longer needed. I appreciate 
that Mr M says that hes not actually used the benefits in the time that he held the Black 
account. However, I cant hold NatWest responsible if he didnt go on to claim on insurance 
benefits that I can see he agreed to have with his account.
To ensure that Mr M understood what he was agreeing to, NatWest had to give Mr M all of 
the important information about the account features and benefits, so that he could make an 
informed decision about whether the account was worth taking out. And from the 
documentation NatWest has provided, it does look as though the monthly cost of the 
account was explained to Mr M and what hed get in return for that fee. It also appears that 
Mr M was made aware of the individual insurance products, the key exclusions, limitations 
and eligibility criteria for each of those benefits.
I accept its possible that not all of the important information mayve been highlighted to Mr 
Ms attention during the sale. Afterall, there was a lot of information that Mr M needed to be 
made aware of. But having said that, Ive not seen anything that makes me think he wouldve 
been put off from agreeing to the account, had he been given even more information about 
it. I say this as I can see that a summary of the key exclusions and limitations was sent to Mr 
M after hed agreed to the account. And I can see that Mr M was sent annual eligibility 
statements in February 2014, and every year since then. And despite being sent all of that 
information, Mr M still chose to keep the account for a number of years. 
As such, having reviewed everything, Im unable to conclude that the Reward Black account 
was mis-sold. I appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Mr M may now regret 
agreeing to the account and he may now feel that it has been poor value for money as he 
never got round to using the benefits that it came with. But that in itself doesnt mean that it 
was mis-sold or that NatWest was wrong to have sold it to him when it did.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman