DRN-3400847
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax payment
protection insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 1999.
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with 
that view and so the matter was passed to me to make a final decision.
My provisional decision 
Upon considering the matter, I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said: 
As things stand, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why below.
The parties agree the cover was sold during a face to face meeting in a Halifax branch. I 
cant know what was said during that meeting. To help me decide whats most likely to 
have happened, Ive looked carefully at the documentary evidence thats available from 
the time. Ive also given careful thought to what Mr and Mrs L remember about the sale.
Halifax provided us with various documentation from the point of sale. Notably, I have 
seen the mortgage application form (dated 10 May 1999), which appears to me to be 
unsigned. There is a section on this application form that requires a signature in order for 
the PPI policy to be added. That section of the application form has not been signed 
either. So I cant say Mr and Mrs L agreed to take the PPI policy out when they applied for 
their mortgage.
I have seen two further documents dated 10 May 1999  an applicant summary and a 
confidential questionnaire. Neither of those d or do they indicate Mr and Mrs Ls agreement 
to take the cover out.
I have been provided with a separate mortgage declaration that appears similar to that on 
the mortgage application form. It was signed by Mr and Mrs L around five days after that 
initial application was ostensibly made. However, there is no mention of PPI on that 
declaration.
In its initial response to the complaint, Halifax acknowledged to this service that the 
mortgage application form had not been signed. However, it offered no further 
explanation on that point.
I have considered the possibility that Mr and Mrs L agreed to PPI at a later and unknown 
date. But in their PPI questionnaire, Mr and Mrs L said that they had no recollection of 
PPI ever being discussed with them. They said they routinely did not agree to PPI 
because they considered it to be a waste of money. They said they always maintained at 
least a years worth of salary in their savings to cover the loss of their jobs.
Whilst I appreciate this cover was sold over 20 years ago and memories can fade over 
time, I am persuaded that Mr and Mrs Ls recollection is accurate. From the mortgage 
application form, it appears they managed their finances carefully. And they have 
provided evidence, albeit from a later date, that they did have savings in an accessible 
account.
I can see that the policy was cancelled at the same time as the mortgage was redeemed. 
And it looks as though payment of the PPI premium may have been wrapped up in their 
monthly mortgage repayment, along with their contents insurance. So I dont think it 
would have been immediately obvious to Mr and Mrs L that they had a PPI policy. And 
they didnt take any action, such as cancelling the policy, that would suggest they knew 
they had cover at the time they were paying for it.
In summary, Mr and Mrs L told us PPI was not mentioned to them at the point of sale, and 
that they did not agree to the cover. Their recollection is supported by the 
contemporaneous documentation in that there is no evidence to suggest they agreed to 
PPI at the point of sale. With all of these things in mind, I intend to find PPI was mis- sold 
to Mr and Mrs L and intend to require Halifax to put things right
I asked the parties to send me any further information or  evidence they wanted me to 
consider by 22 March 2022. No response from either party is on file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaint on our website and Ive taken that into 
account in deciding this case. 
As neither party disagreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So for the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require 
Halifax to put things right as I have set out below. 
Putting things right
Halifax must put Mr and Mrs L in the financial position they would be in now if they hadnt 
taken out MPPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and 
Halifax must:
Pay Mr and Mrs L the amount they paid each month for the MPPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. It can also deduct 
any amounts its already paid regarding commission and profit share.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax 
must give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to put things 
right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman