DRN-2279921
The complaint
The directors of T, a limited company, complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) refused a claim on its public liability insurance.
What happened
T made a claim on its public liability insurance after legal proceedings were brought against 
it. The claim was for damages for personal injury from people who alleged they were injured 
after being assaulted by employees of T. Criminal charges were brought against the 
individuals concerned. 
The first individual said the incident happened when he had asked the second person to 
request some assistance. The second individual had invited some other men to come and 
help out, and it was those men who carried out the assault. They initially denied the charges 
but before the trial started the two individuals pleaded guilty and were convicted (the other 
men were not charged as they were never identified).
Following this, the injured people brought a claim for damages against T, saying it was 
responsible for the actions of the two individuals.
T made a claim on its policy but RSA declined the claim and said it wouldnt provide cover. It 
said although the policy includes public liability insurance, there was an exclusion for damages 
arising from a deliberate act causing injury by the insured or other insured party, and this 
exclusion applied to the circumstances of the claim. RSA also said the claim wasnt notified until 
almost three years after the incident, and this was a breach of the notice requirements set out in 
the policy.
T complained but RSA didnt change its decision. When the complaint came to this service our 
investigator didnt think it should be upheld. She said it was accepted that one of the individuals 
was an employee and the other seemed to be a volunteer or helper. And given that they had 
both been convicted it was reasonable for RSA to say the exclusion applied. She didnt 
consider it necessary to decide whether RSA could also rely on the late notification of the 
claim since there was no cover for the claim in any event.
T disagreed and has requested an ombudsmans decision. It says:
The investigator didnt address the detailed arguments it had set out. Its important to 
look closely at what the policy says and its not correct that the second individual was 
a volunteer. Volunteers couldnt just turn up and choose what work they do; they offer 
their services for particular events, are told how they can help, and their activities are 
monitored. The second individual attended on the sole say-so of the first individual, 
his presence wasnt known or approved by any senior officers of T and everything he 
did was unauthorised. 
For the exclusion to operate. RSA had to show that bodily injury was either expected 
or intended by the first individual. Theres no evidence produced by any witness that 
the injuries to the claimants resulted from any action by him. His plea was based 
solely on advice that he could be found guilty under the joint enterprise doctrine, so 
he was advised to enter a lesser plea. 
Its unlikely this advice would be offered now in the light of a Supreme Court ruling. 
For RSAs defence to succeed, it must show an intention or expectation by the 
individual of the injury to the injured man and RSA cant do that on the evidence.
Given this, its inaccurate to say his admission to the offence reflected intention or 
expectation. It may have been beyond reasonable doubt that as the law on common 
purpose stood at the time, he was guilty, but that is not evidence of any physical act 
against the injured man, which is what RSA has to prove.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for my consideration is the terms of policy, since these set out the terms of 
the contract agreed between RSA and T. Ive also taken into account the requirements set 
by the Regulator that insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly, and must not 
unreasonably reject a claim. I have considered whether RSA dealt with the claim fairly and in 
line with the policy terms, and whether it unreasonably rejected the claim.
The cover provided by the policy includes cover: 
against legal liability to pay damages, including claimant costs recoverable from the 
insured, as a result of bodily injury, personal injury, animal injury, damage or denial of 
access that occurs during the period of insurance and arises out of and in connection with 
the business.
The claim against T was for damages for personal injury. On the face it, there was cover for 
this, unless RSA can show a valid reason why it shouldnt be covered, such as an exclusion 
that applies to the claim.
RSA relied on the following exclusion to reject the claim:
bodily injury, animal injury, damage or denial of access, and any associated costs and 
expenses, either expected or intended by the insured or other insured party but this 
exclusion does not apply to bodily injury resulting from the use of reasonable force to 
protect persons or property;
The definition of other insured party in the policy terms includes any employee of T, any 
member of its security team and anyone taking part in Ts activities. And the definition of 
employee includes voluntary workers, helpers and instructors.
RSA says that as an employee of T and a volunteer who was with the employee were 
convicted of an assault as a result of the incident, this exclusion applies. 
T accepts that the first individual was an employee but says the second individual wasnt 
officially a volunteer  he had turned up on the invitation of the first individual and his 
presence wasnt authorised by (or even known to) T. However, the defence to the damages 
claim against T (a document provided to the court which included a statement of truth) says 
he was attending  on that day as a volunteer. I think it was reasonable for RSA to 
conclude he was a volunteer and helping with Ts activities, which would mean he falls within 
the definition of an employee. Theres no dispute that the first individual was an employee. 
On this basis, I think the exclusion would apply if there was a bodily injury either expected 
or intended by either of these individuals. T argues there was no intention to cause injury.  
Both individuals were convicted of offences including causing bodily harm. T says that isnt 
conclusive because the charges were brought under the doctrine of joint enterprise, which relies 
on only an "association" by them with the principals to the offence (the unidentified men). It says 
the two individuals were guilty by association without having any direct involvement or intention 
to cause injury. 
Ive considered this argument carefully but in my judgment it doesnt accurately describe the 
relevant elements of the offences. The Supreme Court has clarified that the secondary party (in 
this case, the two individuals) must have encouraged or assisted the principal (the unidentified 
men) to commit the crime, with the secondary party having an intent that the principal will commit 
the charged crime. In other words, to be convicted the prosecution would have had to show that 
the two individuals intended the offence to be committed, and this was the relevant law at the 
time of criminal proceedings. So the two individuals pleaded guilty to offences which required an 
intention that the bodily injury would be caused.
I appreciate T says the two individuals didnt intend that assaults or injuries would happen, and  
only pleaded guilty to lesser charges on legal advice to avoid the risk of a conviction for a more 
serious offence. But the fact is they were convicted, having admitted to offences which require 
there to be an intention that injury will occur. 
There was a bodily injury and, given the nature of the criminal convictions, it was reasonable 
for RSA In the circumstances of this case to conclude the injuries were either or intended by 
an insured party. There hasnt been any suggestion the injury resulted from the use of 
reasonable force to protect persons or property. 
On that basis Im satisfied RSAs decision to reject the claim was reasonable and in line with 
the policy terms. 
Theres no need for me to consider the point about T making its claim too late, since it wasnt 
covered in any event, regardless of when the claim was made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman