DRN-3368043
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the advice given by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) 
to transfer out of a defined-benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal 
pension.
What happened
In 1993 Mr R was advised to transfer out of an OPS by a representative of a business now 
known as Aviva.
In 2000, Mr R was approached by Aviva, as part of the then regulators (the Securities and 
Investment Board - SIB) industry wide review of pension transfer advice provided to 
customers by authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. This was known as 
the Pension Review. Following the review, Aviva concluded Mr R had received unsuitable 
advice to transfer and was due redress  its offer was accepted by Mr R in July 2000. Aviva 
increased the number of units held in the personal pension to reflect the loss Mr R suffered.
In 2020, a representative complained to Aviva on Mr Rs behalf about the advice to transfer 
out of the OPS. Aviva informed the representative that the suitability of the advice had been 
considered under the Pension Review in 2000 and redress had been paid.
The representative referred the complaint to our service, saying that Aviva had failed to 
provide evidence that the Pension Review had been completed correctly and so it wasnt 
satisfied Mr R had received appropriate redress. In the absence of this evidence the 
representative said Aviva should use the FCAs updated FG17/9 guidance in order to 
recalculate the appropriate redress.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was persuaded that Aviva had carried out 
the Pension Review in accordance with the regulators requirements, and she provided 
evidence of this to the representative.
Mr Rs representative didnt agree and asked for a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
I should first say that Aviva accepted Mr R received inappropriate advice in 1993, which led 
to it providing him with redress in 2000. So, I dont need to consider whether Mr R received 
inappropriate advice, as Aviva has already agreed that he did. That leaves me with the issue 
of the Pension Review to consider here  was it carried out correctly and in line with the 
SIBs rules and guidance.
Mr Rs representative was given evidence of the review that was carried out, including 
copies of the calculations and the information and assumptions the calculations were based 
on. However, the representative says that this information doesnt demonstrate the review 
was carried out in accordance with the regulators requirements. And in any event, it is clear 
that Mr R is much worse off now and so it is fair to recalculate redress under FG:17/9.
The Pension Review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented to rectify
widespread mis-selling and put customers, as much as possible, back into the position they
wouldve been in had they not received inappropriate advice to transfer out of an OPS.
The methodology for putting things right was set by the SIB. The business was first required 
to determine whether it was possible for the customer to be reinstated into their previous 
OPS. If that wasnt possible, the business needed to put the consumer back into the position 
they would have been in by way of a lump sum pension contribution. Several assumptions, 
based on what the regulator thought were fair at the time, were used in the redress 
calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the pension funds to produce the 
required benefits at retirement. Most reviews were carried out between 1994 and 2003 and 
the assumptions were revised regularly during that time.
In general, the assumptions to be used for the calculation were those relevant to the time 
that the calculation was done, and compensation was paid on this basis. This included 
where mistakes were discovered in the original calculations  a re-calculation would usually 
be done using the same assumptions that applied at the date of the original calculation.
Unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt 
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, has had an impact on the benefits 
provided by personal pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid following 
the review, plus the existing value of the pension, would be high enough to match the OPS 
benefits at retirement date, this hasnt been the case for many consumers. And Mr Rs 
representative argues this here  he says in reality Mr R hasnt received appropriate 
compensation. But that alone isnt a reason to redo the Pension Review and recalculate 
compensation.
The review was designed to provide finality to both parties and draw a line under the matter. 
Businesses could provide redress for mis-selling, knowing that it wouldnt be liable for future 
compensation, and consumers could be re-assured that the mis-selling had been recognised 
and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be reasonable assumptions 
without the need to revisit the matter many years later. Because of this, the Pension Review 
was a very tightly regulated process. It required participating pension providers to undertake 
very clearly defined tasks. A sample of calculations would have been checked, both by the 
businesses and the regulator, with any systemic problems identified and corrected. There 
were regular oversight audits by the regulator to ensure the reviews were being undertaken 
correctly.
The now regulators guidance, referred to as FG:17/9, was originally aimed at complaints 
upheld about OPS transfers received after 3 August 2016 or received before this date that 
hadnt been settled in full and final settlement already. It was initially intended any case that 
fell within the Pension Review period would be excluded from this updated guidance. 
However, it was subsequently decided some cases could be included - where reviews by 
businesses hadnt been carried out in accordance with regulatory standards at the time of 
the review - and/or where the particular circumstances of a case were not addressed by 
those standards.
The onus under this guidance is on the complainant to show theres been a mistake. Mr Rs 
representative says that the evidence sent to it containing the calculations doesnt show that it has been carried out in line with the regulators guidance. But it hasnt said why that is, or 
what aspect of the redress calculation is unclear or erroneous. So, its difficult for me 
address this point now.
Nevertheless, Ive considered the evidence provided by Aviva and I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that the review was carried out incorrectly. Im satisfied that Aviva checked 
whether Mr Rs benefits could be reinstated into the OPS  they could not. And there do not 
appear to be any errors in respect of the information or assumptions used to calculate the 
redress.
In the absence of any evidence from Mr Rs representative that incorrect details or 
assumptions were used, I think Mr Rs pension transfer advice was reviewed and that 
compensation was calculated in line with the regulators guidance and requirements at the 
time. I also havent seen anything which persuades me to direct Aviva to carry out a new 
calculation using the FG:17/917 guidance. So, it follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman