DRN-2462450
The complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC have unfairly said he hasnt paid his credit card 
balance.
 
What happened
Mr S has a credit card with Metro Bank. Hed set up a direct debit to pay the full statement 
balance each month. Thered only been two purchases on the card  one around May 2018, 
and one in August 2019. The 2018 balance was paid by the direct debit without an issue. But 
the 2019 balance wasnt. 
Metro Banks attempts to take the payment by direct debit  in September, October and 
December 2019  all failed. The payments show as returned. In a voicemail message left 
for Mr S in January 2020, Metro Bank said this was because there wasnt enough money in 
the account that the direct debit was trying to take money from. 
When Mr S saw Metro Banks statements and letters saying the card was unpaid, he visited 
a branch to sort the matter out. They gave him a letter that said there was nothing to pay on 
the card. Metro Bank later said this was a mistake, due to a mismatch between internal 
systems.
Mr S complained in December 2019, as Metro Bank continued to treat the credit card as 
unpaid. After investigation, Metro Bank confirmed the card hadnt been paid, but said they 
would consider any bank statements Mr S had showing otherwise. Mr S provided a bank 
statement in early 2020, but this didnt show the balance being paid. 
Mr S again visited a branch of Metro Bank in March 2020, and a new direct debit mandate 
was set up. But this too was unable to pay the credit card balance. Metro Bank have told our 
investigation that this is because there are now arrears on the account  the minimum 
monthly payments since September  which will need to be cleared before the direct debit 
can pay the balance.
Mr S brought his complaint to us for investigation. Our investigator couldnt see from the 
information Metro Bank provided why the direct debit had failed. He felt Metro Bank should 
have done more to find the reason. And given Mr S had clearly been trying to sort the matter 
out, he found a more thorough response from Metro Bank about the problem would have led 
to the credit card balance being paid. 
To put things right, our investigator said Metro Bank should waive all interest and fees that 
had been added to the credit card balance, and remove from Mr Ss credit file any adverse 
entries added for this matter. And to recognise the emotional impact on Mr S, he felt Metro 
Bank should pay him £100 compensation. Once this was done, our investigator said it would 
be for Mr S to pay the outstanding balance on the card. 
Metro Bank dont appear to have responded to that view, which Ive taken to mean they have 
no disagreements with it. But Mr S has said he feels the compensation should be higher. He 
notes hes now had another credit card with a different company withdrawn  he feels 
because of this issue with Metro Bank. 
As our investigators view hasnt been able to resolve this complaint, its come to me for a 
formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my reasoning is slightly different to our investigator, but I agree with the 
way hes said things should be put right. If I was reaching a significantly different view, Id 
make a provisional decision and seek further comments from Mr S and Metro Bank. But as 
my view is only slightly different, I see no need to here.
The evidence Ive seen tells me the credit card balance hasnt been paid yet  due to the 
direct debits being returned. 
Its true thats what will happen when a direct debit is requested from an account that doesnt 
have enough money in it to pay whats been asked for. But that doesnt seem to be the case 
here. Mr Ss bank statements show his account did have enough money in it when the 
September 2019 direct debit request was made.
So I find Metro Bank were more likely than not wrong in January 2020 when they told Mr S 
the direct debit had failed because there wasnt enough money in his paying account. 
Metro Bank should have been able to refer to a specific reason code that is typically reported 
when a direct debit fails. The fact they havent ever mentioned that code, or shown it to us, 
leads me to conclude they didnt carry out a suitable investigation into why the direct debit 
failed here. 
Our investigator said they couldnt see any reason for the direct debit to fail. Its here my 
view differs slightly. I note that it was over a year between the 2018 direct debit and the 
attempts in 2019. Direct debits can go dormant after 13 months, so that may be whats 
happened here.
Also, the address details for Mr Ss bank on the direct debits Ive seen refer to a branch that, 
when I looked it up, has a sort code ending 77. But Mr Ss bank account is linked to a sort 
code ending 87. This could be the issue, though its notable it doesnt seem to have 
affected the 2018 direct debit. 
These issues wouldnt be Metro Banks fault. But failing to identify the problem to Mr S has 
slowed down his efforts to fix it. On top of that, telling him in November 2019 that there was 
nothing to pay  when in fact the full amount was still owed  understandably meant Mr S 
didnt pay the balance off at that point with a one-off payment. 
Similarly, taking his details for a new direct debit in March 2020, without taking the 
opportunity to also clear the arrears so the direct debit could work, didnt do enough to fix the 
problem when there was a chance to do so.
Putting things right
Mr Ss visits to and contact with Metro Bank to try to sort out the unpaid balance tells me he 
was keen to try to pay it off as soon as possible. If the service from Metro Bank had been 
more reasonable, he should have been able to, shortly after it was due. So, to put things right, thats the position Metro Bank need to get Mr S to now. The original 
balance is still for Mr S to pay, probably easiest as a one-off payment rather than a direct 
debit. But Metro Bank should waive any interest or fees theyve added to that balance. And 
they should remove any late payment or default markers on the credit record for the account. 
These are more the result of their poor handling of the issue, than Mr Ss handling of the 
credit.
I appreciate Mr S has now said about issues with his other credit providers. These may well 
be caused by the effect this incident had on his credit record. But having Metro Bank correct 
his record should hopefully reverse that effect. 
Theres also the inconvenience and frustration this matter caused for Mr S. While that cant 
be undone, a payment of compensation will at least recognise it. How much that should be is 
a matter of opinion, so I can appreciate Mr S feels the payment should be relatively large. 
But I feel £100 is the right figure here. That recognises that the incident didnt involve any 
life-changing amounts, or impact Mr Ss livelihood or day-to-day living. It suitably reflects that 
this matter could have been sorted out far quicker than it was, and in a way that better 
explained to Mr S what the problem was, so providing reassurance rather than frustration.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Metro Bank PLC. To put this matter right, they should now:
waive any interest or fees added to his credit card account since September 2019;
remove any adverse reporting about the unpaid balance from Mr Ss credit file; and
pay £100 compensation to Mr S for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman