DRN-4196139
The complaint
Mr D, on behalf of O, complains that PayrNet Limited wont refund a transaction he didnt 
make.
What happened
Mr D told us he took a call from someone purporting to be from PayrNet  the scammer  
who advised him that a fraudulent transaction had taken place. After asking Mr D some 
questions which he said seemed genuine, they told him theyd cancel the card for him. 
They also said theyd be sending a text through with a code to allow the transaction to be 
refunded. 
Mr D provided the code before reading the full text which stated he shouldnt give the code 
to anyone. He said he doesnt understand how the scammer had all of the details of his card, 
including the security number. But in providing the code, the scammer was able to make a 
payment of £759. 
Upon realising, Mr D contacted PayrNet but it said it couldnt help him  it said it wasnt liable 
for the loss and had been unsuccessful in trying to recover funds from the merchant. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. Based on the limited information he had 
available, he didnt think Mr D had authorised the payment and he also didnt think hed 
failed, with gross negligence or intent, to keep his details safe. So, he concluded that 
PayrNet should refund the payment in full, along with 8% simple interest from the date of the 
payment until the date of settlement.
Mr D accepted the investigators findings. PayrNet acknowledged receipt of these findings 
but didnt provide a response. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator  Ill explain why.
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) is that PayrNet 
is liable for unauthorised transactions. Based on Mr Ds testimony  which is all I have 
available  it does appear that a payment was made but it doesnt appear that Mr D 
consented to the payment in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed 
between O and PayrNet. Nor does it seem that he gave permission for anyone else to do 
this on his behalf. I say this because Mr Ds testimony suggests that his only involvement in 
the transaction was to share the one-time passcode (OTP). So, in line with the PSRs, Im 
satisfied in this case that the payment was unauthorised.
PayrNet would therefore be liable for the transaction unless Mr D failed to comply with the 
terms of the account with gross negligence or intent. 
While Mr D has admitted to sharing the OTP, he told us he did this on the understanding he 
would be receiving a refund for a fraudulent transaction. And, while the text message he 
received referenced a purchase made, he told us he didnt read the text in full as he felt 
rushed into providing the code. So, it was only afterwards that he realised he wasnt 
supposed to have shared the code with anyone, not even PayrNet. Furthermore, Mr D was 
persuaded the call was genuine as he doesnt consider PayrNet to be well known, and yet 
the scammer knew he was a customer.
I do note that its unclear how the card details were compromised. Mr D hasnt been able to 
explain this but PayrNet hasnt provided any information in answer to this complaint. With 
that in mind, Ive continued with the information I have available. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest there was any intent on Mr Ds part. So, the remaining 
question is whether he failed to comply with gross negligence. But, based on the evidence 
Ive received  which is limited only to Mr Ds version of events  I dont think Mr D acted 
with very significant carelessness to fairly conclude he failed with gross negligence. 
Taking this all into account, Im not persuaded O is liable for the disputed payment. So 
PayrNet needs to put things right  by refunding Os losses alongside interest to compensate 
for the time its been out of pocket. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Os complaint and required PayrNet Limited, within 
28 days of acceptance of the decision, to:
- Pay O the total of the unauthorised transaction, less any amount recovered of 
refunded  I understanding this to be £759.
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman