DRN-1347628
The complaint
Mr R complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr R was given three loans by Lending Stream between July 2018 and April 2019. Each of 
the loans was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments but Mr R repaid each of them far 
earlier than planned. A summary of Mr R's borrowing from Lending Stream is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 25/07/2018 31/08/2018 £  500
2 20/02/2019 28/03/2019 £  750
3 08/04/2019 07/06/2019 £  1,250
Mr R's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didn't think Lending 
Stream had been wrong to give any of the loans to Mr R. So he didn't think the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr R didn't agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasn't been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Lending Stream did some checks before it gave each of the loans to Mr R. It asked him for 
details of his income and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before 
agreeing each loan. I've seen a summary of the results of the credit checks and they don't 
show anything that I think should have caused additional concerns to the lender.
I think that the checks Lending Stream did before agreeing each of the loans were 
proportionate. The amounts that Mr R needed to repay were small compared with the 
disposable income hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent 
about Mr Rs circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask him for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
any of loans. So I don't think Lending Stream was wrong to lent to Mr R. 
In reaching that conclusion I have considered that there was a significant gap between 
loan 1 being repaid and Mr R asking to borrow again. That might have given the lender 
confidence that Mr R's finances weren't under pressure at that time and he was using the 
lending to meet a one off emergency. But it is also true that, after repaying loan 2 early, Mr R 
asked to borrow a much larger amount due a few days later. That might have given some 
concerns to the lender. But on balance I don't think, at that stage of its relationship with Mr 
R, those concerns would have been so great that further checks would have been 
proportionate.
I appreciate that Mr R says his finances were under pressure at that time, and particularly in 
2019 when he took the last two loans. And I have noted that he says he was only able to 
repay the last loan by seeking help from a member of his family. But the true state of Mr R's 
finances wasn't something that he shared with Lending Stream when he asked for the loans. 
And I don't think it is something that Lending Stream should have discovered from 
proportionate checks. So I don't think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Gain Credit LLC. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman