DRN-3537579
The complaint
Miss C has complained about her property insurer Zurich Insurance PLC in respect of 
repairs it completed at her flat following a fire.
What happened
There was a fire in the kitchen of Miss Cs flat in November 2019, which the fire brigade put 
out. The entrance to the kitchen is a double fire door. Some of the kitchen units were 
affected by the flames, and the room was badly smoke damaged, with the fire doors mainly 
protecting the adjoining lounge from damage (although painting in the lounge was required). 
Zurich reinstated the kitchen but a number of issues arose with the work that it did. Zurich 
offered Miss C a total of £1,050 compensation and agreed to resolve a number of issues. 
But disputes remained about several items, and how Zurich might resolve some items wasnt 
entirely clear. No re-work was done. Miss C complained to us.
Our investigator felt Zurich did need to do a few more repairs than it had offered to. But he 
didnt agree it should do everything Miss C had said she wanted it to do. Miss C indicated 
that she disagreed with our investigators findings. And Zurich didnt agree to the extra work 
the investigator suggested. So, the complaint was passed to me for consideration.
I felt the complaint should be upheld, and for different reasons and with different awards than 
those put forward by our investigator. So I issued a provisional decision to explain my views 
on the complaint and to give both parties a chance to respond to my findings.
Zurich said it disagreed with my findings. Miss C was also unhappy with some of the things 
Id found. As there are multiple issues in question, for ease of reading, below Ive set out the 
parties responses and my further findings against what I said provisionally. My provisional 
comments are quoted in italics.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
design issues
There are a number of issues that Miss C has complained about and which Zurich has 
dismissed, on account of them being design issues. Zurich says it didnt design the kitchen 
 Miss C did that with the kitchen supplier. So, Zurichs logic is, that any and all issues that 
are design related, arent for it to deal with. I think its logic is flawed and, consequently, 
I dont think all the design issues can be so easily dismissed.
Zurich entered into a contract for repair with Miss C. It agreed to replace her kitchen. But it 
doesnt supply its own kitchens and its fitting contractor doesnt design them. So Miss C had 
to liaise with a kitchen supply company to design a kitchen which was then supplied to 
Zurichs contractor. And which Zurichs contractor paid for. But the kitchen, apart from in 
respect of an agreement Miss C and Zurich had come to over the level of quality of kitchen it 
would pay for, was meant to be like the kitchen Miss C had before. The kitchen supply 
company didnt know that. But Zurichs contractor did. And Zurichs contractor based some 
other repair elements around the kitchen being like that which was in place before. For 
example; a section of undamaged skirting board, which previously ended where it met the 
front edge of the old kitchen base units wasnt replaced or adapted. It wasnt damaged so 
didnt need replacing for that purpose. And as the new kitchen should have been the same 
size as the old one, it wasnt expected for there to be a gap. So Zurichs contractor, because 
it was fitting the kitchen, and in doing so had to complete a good repair on behalf of Zurich, 
should have been liaising with Miss C about the design and overseeing the process. I know 
Miss C saw the kitchen design plan and agreed to it. But I think there are things on there 
which she reasonably didnt spot, but which Zurichs contractor, working in line with the role 
Ive just described, should have seen and taken the opportunity to rectify. 
So, I dont accept that its reasonable for any design issues to be dismissed on account of 
Zurich not being liable for them. As such, Im not going to differentiate in my findings below 
between design and other issues. Rather, Ive looked at each issue of concern for Miss C  
and decided whether its something Zurich should be resolving. 
In summary Zurich said the kitchen designer would have discussed with Miss C that she 
didnt have to have an exact like-for-like kitchen  this gave her the freedom to choose to 
change and update her kitchen as she saw fit. The designer, Zurich said, was the expert and 
provided drawing and images to assist Miss C in seeing how the kitchen would look, which 
she agreed to. So it doesnt feel it should now be responsible for her changing her mind. 
Miss C reiterated that she had felt pressured into agreeing the design and that Zurich had 
accepted that.
I dont think Zurich can reasonably know what the kitchen company discussed with Miss C. 
And Im certainly not saying policyholders shouldnt have the freedom to choose to upgrade 
or change their kitchen if they want to and the insurer is happy to allow that. All I am doing is 
looking at what happened here and whether I think, in this situation, Zurich can fairly and 
reasonably dismiss any liability to Miss C for design issues. I explained provisionally why 
I dont think it can, and nothing Zurich has said in reply has changed my view on that.  
no under-oven drawer 
Miss C says she was told thered be an under-oven drawer. Whilst I dont doubt what she 
says she recalls, Im not persuaded I can fairly make Zurich install one. There wasnt a 
single drawer listed on the design plan (only a set of four drawers), Miss C didnt have one 
before and Ive seen nothing in writing that indicates Miss C was told the new kitchen would 
include one, or even that, at some point before the design plan was agreed, shed been 
given to understand this was the case. I dont uphold this element.
Miss C said shed agree with me on this  as long as Zurich, as previously agreed, fits a 
shelf as a compromise for losing the drawer space. Whilst I understand this is an important 
issue for Miss C, Im not persuaded I can reasonably require Zurich to do anything in this 
respect. I know handling the design was difficult for Miss C, and my findings which include 
directions for Zurich to fix some design issues reflect that. But, as explained provisionally, 
Im not persuaded that this issue is one I can reasonably make Zurich fix, either by fitting a 
drawer or a shelf.
poor finish to internals of cupboards
Miss C says one cupboard has no top as the work surface can be seen, and that a rear 
panel has been cut poorly. Whilst these issues are far from ideal, I dont think they materially 
affect the finish or functionality of the kitchen. Im not going to make Zurich resolve them.Miss C said she is not sure if this contradicts my point later about the sink end panel. But 
shed like all the cupboards to be finished professionally as that is what she had before. I can 
assure Miss C there is no contradiction. The sink end panel is not part of the internals of the 
cupboards and Zurich accepted that the sink end panel, which had been cut roughly, needed 
repairing. So its a different issue. I know Miss C feels the finish is poor compared to what 
she had before. But not all failures by a business or differences in implementation will result 
in a need for rectification. Here I remain of the view that there is no real loss for Miss C 
because, as I said provisionally, the finish and functionality of the kitchen isnt materially 
affected. I remain of the view that, theres no reasonable grounds for me to make Zurich do 
more in this respect.
window frame
Zurichs assessor looked at the frame, he accepted it needs a light clean but didnt think the 
paintwork is damaged. The frame is of a dark finish. I can see some darkened areas on it 
that might be indicative of ingrained soot damage (and I note that Zurich accepts it took too 
long to initially clean the kitchen). So I can see why Miss C might feel the frame needs 
repairing. But the darker areas might just be how the frame was before, or a reflection or 
shadow caused by the camera. The person best placed to determine this issue was Zurichs 
assessor, because he viewed the frame in person. Ive not seen anything that makes me 
think his conclusion is wrong.
Miss C said that there is smoke damage clearly visible on the frames which she hasnt been 
able to resolve by cleaning. She said shed like the frames restoring to how they were before 
the fire. I understand Miss Cs frustration in this respect. But her view that there is ingrained 
smoke/soot damage is not reflected by Zurichs assessor. Im not persuaded there are 
reasonable grounds on which I can fairly make Zurich restore the window frame. 
plastic fittings 
Miss C is worried theyre damaged. Zurichs assessor says he couldnt see any sign they 
are damaged. Whilst I can understand Miss Cs concern, Zurichs assessors view cant 
reasonably be discounted. Im not satisfied these are most likely damaged and in need of 
replacing. 
Miss C sent a photo and explained that the word on was rubbed off the cooker switch 
during the cleaning process. I understand that Miss C feels this is damage, but Im not 
persuaded it is damage to the plastic fitting such that would reasonably require it, or any 
other plastic fittings, to be replaced.  
boiler cupboard end panel
Photos show a fitting screw has been driven too far in and has damaged the exterior of the 
panel. I think this panel needs replacing.
Zurich said this issue hadnt been raised with it before. Im satisfied it was drawn to its 
contractors attention. However, in her reply to my provisional findings, Miss C advised that 
the contractor has resolved the issue. So Ill remove the requirement for Zurich to rectify this.
boiler cupboard door
The cupboard faces the work surface. The old cupboard had a plinth of significant depth at 
its bottom with the door opening above. Whilst there is a plinth on the new cupboard it isnt 
very deep. I can see Miss Cs concern  this is a small kitchen with limited work space, and the cupboard is near the sink, where pots might be stacked for washing. Overall Miss C had 
a design which worked for her before, and doesnt have that now. And I dont think Miss C 
would have known from the design plan that this key aspect of her kitchen had changed. 
Importantly I dont think she should have thought to check she would still be getting this  
other than the cupboard being new there was no reason for her to think the size of the door, 
and or the plinth it would sit on, would change. However, Zurichs contractor, who knew and 
understood all the relevant measurements, could have seen that. I think Zurich has to 
amend the boiler cupboard door so it functions similarly to the way it did before (and I think 
the photos taken immediately after the fire show some good reference points for determining 
the size of adjustment needed).
Zurichs objection to this was that it isnt responsible for design issues. Ive responded to its 
concern in this respect above and, as explained, my view on its liability in this respect hasnt 
changed. So I remain of the view that it must resolve the door height.
double wall unit
The photos of the kitchen show that there were two single cupboards to the top left of the 
cooker. Miss C has explained why it is important to her to have two single cupboards. But 
the kitchen design shows that a double unit was put in their place. I know Miss C did not 
want that, and I think she clearly didnt understand that was what she was getting. The 
design does state double and whilst I know what that means, Im not sure Miss C did. And 
photos taken just after the fire do show the contents in one side are very carefully stacked  I 
can see why this wouldnt work for Miss C as a double cupboard. I see this similar to the 
boiler cupboard door  Miss C had something which worked for her, I dont think its 
reasonable to assume shed knowingly agree to something different being put in place, 
which clearly wouldnt work for her. Im minded to require Zurich to change the double 
cupboard for two single ones. 
Zurichs objection to this was it isnt responsible for design issues. And it had no input in the 
signing off process so it doesnt feel it is fair and reasonable to make it change this 
cupboard. I think that here Zurich did have input as it was the designers customer, not 
Miss C. And the designs were put to Miss C via its contractor. Ive responded to its more 
general concerns in respect of it not being responsible for the design issues above and, as 
explained, my view on its liability in this respect hasnt changed. So I remain of the view that 
it must replace the double cupboard for two singles.
worktop
The new worktop, under the boiler, running along that wall under the window, isnt as wide 
as it was before. Its also scratched. Zurich agreed to fix the scratches but, regarding the 
width, said thats because it is the standard size offered by the kitchen supplier, and which 
Miss C chose. Here, Id refer Zurich to what I said above about the fact its contractor should 
have been overseeing the design and Miss Cs selection of materials. Quite apart from the 
new worktop being smaller, the shallower worktop dictated the units being placed further 
back than they had been before. Zurichs contractor should have spotted this (it left the 
skirting short and meant the floor tiling had to be adjusted) and checked with Miss C that she 
was aware she had selected something different to that shed had before. The before and 
after photos show this is not an insignificant difference, and I say that particularly given the 
kitchen and worktop area wasnt that big to start with. Im minded to make Zurich replace the 
worktop with a wider option. As a consequence of this, it wont have to repair the scratches. 
Zurich said its contractor fitted the worktop Miss C chose  and she must have known the 
detail of the worktop because the appliances she chose fit it perfectly. Miss C said it is the 
wider section of worktop that is scratched and chipped, not the section under the window.Whether Miss C knew the details of the new worktop or not, and Im mindful we dont know 
how much she understood and how much she was guided by the kitchen designer, that 
doesnt mean she understood how different this was from the worktop she had before. Ive 
explained why I think Zurich is responsible for the design flaws, my view on that hasnt 
changed. So I still think Zurich should replace this section of worktop. And as it is the other 
section of worktop, which I am not requiring it to replace, which is damaged, that damage will 
need to be repaired, as Zurich had agreed to do.
hinges
Miss C says she wasnt told what hinges would be used, or given a choice. But that actually 
the kitchen has been fitted with a mix of soft and hard close hinges. I dont think a mix of 
hinges should have been used. Miss C should decide which she prefers; they can remain, 
and any which are not of that type, Zurich should replace.
Neither party objected to what Id said in this respect. So Ive no need to say anything 
further, other than to confirm that my view on this issue hasnt changed.  
silver edging
The inside front edges of the cupboards have a silver finishing face. The silver is lifting. 
I wouldnt expect a new kitchen to be suffering in this way so soon. Zurich seems to think 
this is an issue for the supplier to deal with. But Zurich provided and fitted the kitchen. It will 
have to rectify the edging. Im not sure if the existing edging can be repaired to a good 
standard or, if it cant, if it can be removed and replaced. If neither of these options is 
possible, the cupboards will need replacing.
Zurich said the edging can be refixed or replaced  replacing the cupboards isnt necessary. 
I note this response, but my award will remain that if this is not possible, the cupboards will 
have to be replaced. And in saying that Ill emphasise that the repair will have to be 
long-lasting  so if Zurich refixes or replaces the silver edging and it lifts again in the short 
term, that will not be a long-lasting repair. Should that happen, the cupboards would have to 
be replaced.  
highline cupboard
There is grout on this cupboard which Zurich has said it will remove. But the exterior surface 
of the door and end panel are also lifting. Zurich has said it will rectify this. But it hasnt said 
how. To me though, rectify equates to repair. And, in my experience, once laminate style 
cupboards start with this kind of damage, it cant be repaired long term. That is because 
humidity gets inside where the material have separated. I think Zurich needs to replace this 
cupboard. That being the case, it doesnt need to clean the grout from it.
Zurich said it has already agreed to remove the grout and it thinks a repair would be 
successful. Miss C said the edges are generally of poor quality  and she hadnt been 
expecting that. I note Zurichs view of what its contractor says. But I dont find this type of 
third-hand evidence compelling. Not least when theres no explanation that refutes, from the 
experts perspective, my provisional findings on this issue. With nothing persuasive to make 
me change my view on this issue, my final decision remains as that stated provisionally.
silicone and tiling by the windowMiss C has reported, and evidenced in photos, that the silicone finish in places is poor. 
Shes also shown the grouting on the tiling by the window is cracked. Zurich should rectify 
both of these instances of poor work.
Zurich said it had already agreed that this needs resolving. Miss C said all she wants is for 
the tiling and beading to be finished neatly, as it was before. I note Zurichs acceptance of 
this, and Miss Cs comments in reply. My comments have been made in respect of silicon 
and grouting, not beading. But Zurich should give consideration to Miss Cs concerns about 
the beading. If the parties want us to, we can share with Zurich the details Miss C has sent 
us, as part of her response to my provisional decision, about the beading.  
lounge flooring
This was damaged when Zurichs contractor placed the old oven on it. I think, from what Ive 
seen, Zurich accepts it damaged this flooring. In any event, having seen the photos of the 
damage, I think that is most likely the case. The flooring will need repairing/reinstating. 
Zurich said it has agreed a repair. Theres no need for me to add anything more.
other repair issues 
There are a number of items which Zurich, in its October final response letter, agreed to 
rectify and which I, having seen the submissions from both parties, dont feel I need to 
comment on in detail. But the repair/resolution of these items is outstanding, so I will need to 
include a direction in respect of these items in my award. So, for completeness and clarity, 
Ive listed them here: 
Lip handles  Miss C says the wrong ones were fitted, Zurich will replace.
Extractor fan  Miss C says it doesnt work like her old one, Zurich will replace.
Yoga mat, chair leg, radiator  affected by spilt paint, Zurich will pay to replace the mat 
and has agreed to repair the other items.
Roller mark on wall  Zurich agreed to repair.
Cooker  needs adjusting as out of square, Zurich agreed to adjust.
Tiles  edging and mitres are poor, grouting and adhesive on walls, Zurich agreed repair.
LED lights  chosen without Miss Cs consent, Zurich agreed to change.
Sink end panel  cut roughly, Zurich agreed repair.
Pen marks  red pen, Zurich agreed to remove.
Double fire doors  damaged by fire, Zurich agree to replace.
Kickboards  out of square, Zurich agree repair.
Miss C said that in replacing the extractor fan, one with an automatic humidistat is required, 
and the rubber from the yoga mat, where it stuck to the skirting board paint, needs removing. 
She said she made Zurich aware of an issue with the fire safety strips in the doorframes and 
shed like a fire safety specialist to look at this. She said she wants the plumbing under the 
sink to be reviewed (some work was done to improve this but Miss C still isnt happy with it).
Ive added Miss Cs comments here so Zurich is aware of them. Im sure it will want to 
resolve this claim fully so that both parties can move on. But I cant make findings about new 
issues or new concerns about pre-existing issues, such as the rubber on the skirting board, 
the fire strips and the remaining dissatisfaction with the plumbing.    
implementing repair
Im aware that Miss C has certain health conditions that are exacerbated by stress. Whilst 
I dont think Zurichs contractors completed entirely negligent work, they did leave a lot of issues to be resolved. They also didnt communicate well with Miss C. And I can understand 
why, Miss C having noted paint, grout and adhesive where it shouldnt be, felt the contractor 
didnt take good care of her property. She also felt as though she had to project manage the 
work. And I think it would be stressful and difficult for Miss C now to find a contractor of her 
own to fix the problems left by Zurichs contractor. So, on this occasion, Im going to require 
Zurich to appoint a loss adjuster to oversee resolving all of the above issues Ive said or 
recorded need sorting; whether that is repair or replacement of items. The loss adjuster 
should be Miss Cs point of contact and ensure all work is completed to a good standard, in 
a timely manner and with as little disruption or stress caused to Miss C as possible. And in 
respect of the work itself, Zurich should appoint a different contractor (Miss C should be 
aware though that it might be necessary, given the nature of some of the work, for more than 
one contractor and/or supplier to be appointed).
Neither party objected to what I said in this respect. So Ive no need to change or add to it.
oven
Miss C took the opportunity to change her oven. Zurich says it doesnt need to contribute to 
the cost of the new oven because the old one wasnt damaged in the fire. Zurich says its 
contractor told it that it had an electrician check the oven, and it was ok. But it hasnt 
provided any evidence to support this. The kitchen in that area was damaged by flames and 
no details have been given to me to explain how the fire brigade extinguished the fire, which 
occurred on the hob directly above the oven. Without clear proof to the contrary Im minded 
to think its reasonable to conclude the oven was likely damaged during the fire and/or 
extinguishment. Zurich should pay Miss Cs cost for replacing her oven, £373.00 plus 
interest* from 10 March 2020, the date this was paid for, until settlement is made.  
Zurich said its contractor and electrician had checked the oven, there hadnt been a need to 
issue a safety certificate. I appreciate Zurich confirming this. But I dont find the explanation 
to be persuasive evidence that the original oven wasnt damaged either by the fire or during 
its extinguishment. And I explained provisionally, I think its most likely, based on what is 
known about the fire, that it was. Zurichs confirmation doesnt change my view in this 
respect, so I still think it should pay for the replacement, plus interest.
compensation
This has clearly been a difficult time for Miss C. And I note her health has suffered. But I 
also see that Zurich has offered Miss C a total of £1,050 compensation to make up for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor repairs. I think thats a fair and reasonable 
sum in the circumstances.
Miss C said she hadnt received this offer from Zurich. But she said she accepted that it was 
fair and reasonable. For completeness, Id explain that Zurichs total of £1,050 was split 
across two offers. The first, in its email of 29 April 2020, was £300. The second was made 
on 29 October 2020 for a further £750. If Zurich hasnt paid these sums to Miss C, or if it has 
paid them by cheques which havent been cashed, it should now pay them/pay them again.
Putting things right
I require Zurich to arrange the following repairs, in line with my directions explained above, 
which include appointing a loss adjuster and new contractors:
Boiler cupboard  repair/rectify the door height (so it opens at the height it did before).
Double wall unit  replace it with two single units.Worktop  replace the section that holds the sink for one as deep as it was before. And 
repair the other section.
Hinges  replace, at Miss Cs choice, either the soft or hard close hinges.
Silver edging  repair or replace this  but if that cant be done in isolation from the 
cupboards whilst ensuring a satisfactory, long-lasting finish, the cupboards will have to 
be replaced.
Highline cupboard  replace it.
Silicon and tiling by window  rectify.
Lounge flooring  repair it, but if it cant be repaired, replace it.
Other repairs  complete the list of other repairs set out above.
I also require Zurich to pay Miss C:
£373 for her oven, plus interest* from 10 March 2020 until settlement is made. 
Any part of the total compensation it has offered of £1,050 that has not either already 
been paid by it and/or, if any part was paid by cheque, cashed by Miss C.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Zurich Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Miss C, it should tell her how much 
its taken off. It should also give Miss C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Zurich Insurance PLC to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman