DRN-3733883
The complaint
Mr A complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly rejected his claim for damage to his 
motorised garage door.
What happened
Mr A had a home insurance policy with AXA. He says his property was burgled in December 
2021, and that this included damage to his garage door.
AXA arranged for repairs to part of Mr As property but on checking the garage door they 
found it to have suffered wear and tear  as opposed to being damaged during the break-in. 
Mr A wasnt happy with that, he says it couldve been caused by the perpetrators, but he 
also suspects it may have been caused by AXA when they were inspecting the mechanism.
Mr A said it was working fine prior to that, but AXA maintained it was wear and tear. They 
did, however, pay Mr A £125 in compensation for delays in the handling of the claim.
The matter couldnt be resolved so Mr A brought his case to our service. An investigator 
here looked into it and initially agreed with Mr A  that AXA had failed to show it resulted 
from wear and tear.
But, AXA then provided further photographic evidence which led her to reach a different 
conclusion. The photos showed no real damage to the door and also appeared to show 
significant wear to the mechanism, which they felt would be unlikely to happen in a short 
period of time.
Mr A said there wouldnt be any visible damage to the garage door because it was solid 
metal, and he still disagreed with the assertion of it being wear and tear. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
The photos Ive seen  some provided by Mr A, some provided by AXA  suggest to me that 
the damage was more likely than not to have been caused by wear and tear. Theres a 
picture of a cog which looks very worn and I think that suggests it happened over a 
prolonged period of time. I also agree that there appears to be no damage to the door front 
which suggests it wasnt forced to a sufficient degree that it happened during the break-in, 
nor that it could have occurred in the five to ten minutes the inspection has been said to 
have taken.
Ive thought about Mr As assertion that the mechanism was working fine beforehand, but 
with wear and tear there will often be a tipping point where something fails  so, based on 
the evidence available, Im not persuaded that it happened more suddenly.
Ive also thought about what Mr A has said in relation to the solidity of the door. The use of 
the word solid gives an impression of thickness and durability, but as with most garage doors 
I have seen it appears relatively thin and lightweight, as one might expect with one which is 
in need of a small motor to raise it.
So, I would expect to see damage to the door as well if it had been forced open, particularly 
if that force was to be considered as great enough to damage the motor so significantly.
Its also been argued that the freshness of the debris from the motor suggests it happened 
recently. But it appears to me that the motor was boxed in, so any debris would seem to 
have accrued over time within the box, would have been undisturbed, and only have 
scattered on the ground once the box was opened. So, I dont think thats sufficient to say it 
had been a particularly recent cause.
Finally, for completeness, I can see that Mr As policy excludes damage which has resulted 
from wear and tear. And given the above, it isnt unfair for them to have relied upon those 
policy terms in this case.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman