DRN-4253480
The complaint
Mr P complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) provided him with loans without carrying out the proper checks.
Mr P is also unhappy that between 2020 and 2023 MoneyBoat updated its website to
reflect that taking out these sorts of loans may not improve a consumers credit score.
What happened
Mr P was advanced three loans, a summary of his borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentslargest 
instalment 
amount
1 £400.00 15/09/2020 29/09/2020 4 £138.97
2 £1,000.00 30/11/2020 07/02/2021 6 £299.69
3 £700.00 06/05/2021 16/06/2021 6 £202.99
Following Mr Ps complaint, MoneyBoat wrote and explained why it wasnt going to uphold
it. Unhappy, with this outcome, Mr P referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint, and he didnt uphold it because in his view
MoneyBoat carried out proportionate checks which showed each loan to be affordable. And
the lending relationship didnt reach the point where either MoneyBoat needed to review his
bank statements or a stage where the loans become unsustainable for Mr P.
Mr P didnt agree and he sent several emails with further points and documentation  all of 
which I have read, and Ive summarised his responses below:
Mr Ps bank statements show the loans werent affordable for him.
Further checks ought to have been carried out especially for the second loan.
Mr P provided screen shots of MoneyBoats website in 2020 and 2023 which shows 
the change in wording that it used to describe the impact the loans may have on a 
credit score.
Mr P says the statement on the website in 2020 is mis-leading and now the negative
impact of the loans (despite being paid on time) on Mr Ps credit file is affecting his
ability to obtain a mortgage. Mr P has therefore asked for the loans to be removed.
The adjudicator wrote to Mr P to explain why his comments hadnt changed his mind about
the outcome that he had reached. Mr P didnt agree, and instead asked for a final decision.
I then issued a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ps complaint in part. And both parties were asked for any further submissions to be 
received by 19 July 2023.
MoneyBoat didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
Mr P provided some further comments and Ive summarised these below:
He agrees the loans were unaffordable. 
Mr P wasnt aware taking out the loans could damage his credit score and his ability 
to obtain a mortgage. 
The website says you could see some improvement in your credit score and Mr P 
now knows this isnt the case. 
It is unfair that MoneyBoat has recorded these loans on Mr Ps credit file as payday 
loans.
MoneyBoat published misleading information on its website. 
These loans should either be removed or amended to show that they were normal 
instalment loans. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in a smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Mr Ps income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. The adjudicator didnt think this
applied to Mr Ps complaint.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans 
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was
able to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to haverealised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
Loan 1
MoneyBoat has shown that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr P for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Ps income has been recorded as being £1,853 per
month.
Mr P also declared his monthly outgoings were £700  which covered costs such as
rent, food, transport, credit commitments, and other. However, following further checks
including bringing Mr P in line with the Common Financial Statement and a credit search
which I comment on below - MoneyBoat increased Mr Ps monthly expenditure by a further
£150.
After this adjustment it left Mr P with disposable monthly income of £1,003. This was more
than sufficient for MoneyBoat to believe Mr P could afford the largest monthly repayment of
around £139. The loan looked affordable.
Before this loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the results it received from the
credit reference agency. I want to add that although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search
there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
MoneyBoat couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received  if necessary.
MoneyBoat was also entitled to rely on the information it was given. So, Ive taken a look at
the results to see whether there was anything contained within it that wouldve either
prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks or possibly have declined Mr Ps
application.
I can see that at the time this loan was advanced, there was one home credit loan
outstanding and five loans that have been recorded as Finance House. Given the terms
and or amounts borrowed for these Finance House loans, it is likely some or all were
payday and or instalment loans. The monthly repayments towards these six accounts was
going to cost Mr P around £716 each month. This is significantly more than the £370 Mr P
declared to MoneyBoat as part of his application for his credit commitments.
On top of this, Mr P also had six active credit cards owing £3,877 compared to total available
credit limits of £4,030. And of course, Mr Ps credit commitments would be greater because
he would need to pay and service these cards as well. And it would seem that repayments to
his credit commitments were around 50% of his declared income. Which in some cases, is
sufficient to say that the loan ought to not have been approved.
Finally, Mr P owed £2,649 on three current account overdrafts. Although I accept Mr Ps
banks werent expecting the whole balance to be repaid in one go  the fact that his total
balance was significantly more than his declared monthly salary is further reinforcement that
perhaps Mr P was having difficulties managing his money.
Although the accounts listed above, appeared to have been serviced in line with the
agreements because no late adverse payment markers have been reported, the fact that
Mr P had six loans outstanding as well as credit cards and overdraft debt. Coupled with the
fact that the credit results showed that Mr P had a history of taking out and settling loans,
ought to have led MoneyBoat to conclude that perhaps, Mr P was overindebted or in some
difficulties.
The credit check results also show Mr P had a history of taking out and repaying loans anddue to the number of outstanding loans, even at this early stage of the lending relationship
MoneyBoat ought to have taken further steps to verify the information Mr P had provided.
MoneyBoat couldve gone about doing that several ways, it couldve asked to see evidence
of his income, his outgoings, copy bank statements or any other documentation that
MoneyBoat felt it reasonably needed to obtain in order to satisfied itself that the loans were
both affordable and sustainable.
However, that isnt the end of the matter, for me to be able to uphold the complaint about the
loan, I have to be satisfied that had further checks been carried out MoneyBoat wouldve
likely discovered the lending was unaffordable for Mr P. Mr P has provided copies of his
bank statements, and so I think its entirely reasonable to have considered those to see what
MoneyBoat may have discovered  had it made better checks.
Had further checks been carried out, MoneyBoat wouldve seen he was also spending
significant amounts of money on betting transactions through a third-party payment provider.
Indeed, in the first two weeks of September 2020 Mr P had spent at least £1,350 on such
sites  which is almost of all his declared income. So, I do think further checks ought to have
alerted MoneyBoat that Mr P couldnt afford to repay this loan in a sustainable manner.
I am intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
The same sort of checks was carried out for this loan as they were for loan 1. Mr P was
asked about his income  which had dropped to £1,668 and after taking account of what
Mr P declared to it about his expenditure  and after bench marking these figures.
MoneyBoat concluded he had around £818 of disposable income each month each month to
afford the repayment of around £300. Again, the loan looked affordable.
As before a credit search was conducted, and the results were much the same as those
MoneyBoat provided for loan 1 was advanced. Mr P still had a number of credit card
accounts that were outstanding and still owed over £3,000 on his overdraft. So, there is no
evidence that Mr P was reducing his reliance on the credit facilities. And Mr P still had three
Finance House loans outstanding at the time. I accept this is a reduction on loan 1 but given
everything else further checks were, I feel warranted.
As before, I still think, given everything that MoneyBoat knew that further checks ought to
have been carried out. Had it done so, Mr Ps bank statements show that he was continuing
to spend more than the value of his income each month on gambling transactions and so
this loan was also unaffordable.
Loan 3
I accept there is a small break in lending between Mr P repaying loan 2 and taking loan 3.
But in my view, this isnt enough to reset the lending chain. However, loan 3 was for a lower
loan amount so I do think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to perhaps conclude the loan
wasnt inherently harmful or unsustainable for Mr P.
But in saying that, following the checks MoneyBoat conducted, it believed Mr P had monthly
disposable income of £887.
The credit checks results are very similar to previous loans, there is still a significant amount
of overdraft debt as well as debt towards other credit cards. Mr P also had three active
finance house loans.
In addition, between January and May 2021, Mr P had settled (including loan 2) seven
payday / high-cost credit loans. So, I still think there is evidence that Mr P was regularly
taking out and repaying payday loans and / or high-cost credit loans. That wouldve still been
enough to prompt it to carry out further checks.And as before, had further checks been carried out perhaps by reviewing Mr Ps bank
statements, it wouldve likely discovered that he was still spending a significant amount of
money each month on gambling websites. Which made the loan repayments unaffordable
and I am therefore also intending to uphold this loan.
MoneyBoats website
It is worth pointing out here that as Im intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint about the
lending then any adverse payment information will need to be removed by MoneyBoat as
part of the compensation it will need to pay Mr P.
However, Mr P has said the loans actually need to be removed from the credit file, because
of the information MoneyBoat now publishes on its website about the impact on the loans
can have on a credit score.
Mr P has provided a screen shot of MoneyBoats website  taken from an online post in
June 2020. Which is only a few months before Mr P took his first loan. The blog post said:
As with any loan, the impact a payday loan has on your credit score is all down to
whether you stick to the terms of the loan and make all your repayments on time and
in full. If you take out a payday loan and service it correctly - treating it as a one-off fix
to a financial emergency, rather than a long-term solution to a more serious money
problem - then you could see some improvement in your credit score from taking out
a payday loan online.
However, MoneyBoat isnt saying that a payday loan will improve your credit score. It has to
be taken, repaid and even then, it could see some improvement in a customers credit
score. This isnt a guarantee that taking out a payday loan will improve a credit score. Indeed
later on in the same blog post, MoneyBoat explains that missed payments could impact a
credit score.
And Mr P says that by 2023, MoneyBoats website said;
What are the disadvantages?
Payday loans dont benefit your credit score
For me to consider whether the loan would have to be removed, Id need to consider the
reasons why Mr P took these loans and its clear from what Mr P told us was that he wasnt
taking these loans to build his credit score. Mr P said;
I obviously didn't take the loans out solely improve my credit score however if I knew
that taking them out would have damaged my credit report with regards to mortgage
applications and that the loans are recorded differently from other loans then I wouldn't have 
taken the loans out.
But Mr P says that had the 2023 wording on the website been apparent in 2020 he wouldnt
have taken the loans. But, when Mr P was taking these loans from MoneyBoat he was
borrowing from other payday lenders and this is reflected in both Mr Ps credit file, his bank
statements as well as the credit search results provided by MoneyBoat. Given this, I cant
fairly say, that had the 2023 wording been used in 2020 that Mr B wouldve made a different
choice and not have taken the loan. Indeed, the 2020 blog post says:
Applying for loans online is a convenient way to access credit, and theres masses
of choice out there. However, this is a resource that must be treated with caution. Its
vital to remember that every time you send off an online application for a loan of any
size, it will be recorded on your credit report for a considerable amount of time. Make
too many of these applications, and lenders will start to look upon you in a less
positive lightTherefore, while looking back now Mr P feels he may have made a different decision had the
2023 wording being present at the time he borrowed. But given his borrowing history form
other lenders Im satisfied that on balance, even if the 2023 wording wouldve been there in
2020, I still think, given what Ive seen that Mr P wouldve chosen to proceed with his
applications. I am also minded to conclude that the 2020 wording doesnt guarantee it will
build a credit score and it does provide caution for multiple applications as well as missed
payments.
As such, I am not going to be asking MoneyBoat to remove these loans from his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I plan not to revisit whether MoneyBoat acted fairly and reasonably when it granted the loans 
because Mr P agrees with this outcome and MoneyBoat hasnt provided any further 
comments. 
Ive also carefully considered what Mr P says about the website. However, in the 
circumstance of this complaint, I am still not going to ask MoneyBoat to either remove or 
amended the type of loan that it is recording on Mr Ps credit file. 
The website in 2020 doesnt say the taking of these loans will improve a credit score, only it 
could improve it. This was subject to the caveat that any loans must be repaid within the 
terms of the agreement and the website also explained that too many applications may lead 
to a situation where lenders will start to look upon you in a less positive light.  
And Ive also had to consider that Mr P wasnt taken these loans for credit building purposes, 
and Im not persuaded that had the 2023 wording been visible to Mr P in 2020 that he 
wouldve made a different decision to apply for the loans. 
And Ive not seen anything to suggest that the information MoneyBoat is currently reporting 
about these loans on Mr Ps credit file is inaccurate, and therefore I cant ask it to amend the 
loan type on his credit file. 
I do not uphold this element of Mr Ps complaint and I accept that Mr P will be disappointed 
by this outcome.  
However, for the same reasons as I outlined in the provisional decision, I still think 
MoneyBoat ought to not have lent to Mr P and Ive outlined below what it needs to do in 
order to put things right for him.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent to Mr P, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (orought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have approved any of Mr Ps loans.
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything MoneyBoat has already refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should pay Mr P the total of A plus B.
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ps credit 
file in relation to loans 1, 2 and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat should
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ps 
complaint in part.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things for Mr P 
as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman