DRN-1847001
 
The complaint
Mr T, representing the estate of his mother, Mrs T, complains that Lacomp Plc failed to 
maintain a cash balance in her stocks and shares ISA account to pay platform charges.
What happened
Lacomp managed Mrs T's investment portfolio. It was held in the ISA in question, which in 
turn included a AIM-based portfolio for inheritance planning.
Mrs T sadly passed away in October 2018 and a request was made for the entire portfolio to 
be liquidated. Lacomp actioned this but the instruction coincided with a process of dis- 
investment being carried by the ISA platform provider to generate cash to pay the monthly 
platform charges. This meant that not all stocks could be liquidated immediately.
When the dis-investment process was complete a couple of days later and the remaining 
stocks became available for liquidation, one particular company's stock had been suspended 
from trading, with the company later going into liquidation. It's the loss relating to the 
failure to liquidate this holding immediately that's at the heart of the complaint.
Mr T feels that Lacomp, as managers of the portfolio, should've ensured that a cash balance 
was maintained on the account from which the monthly charges would've been met. Doing 
so would've avoided the situation created by the dis-investment process. Even without a 
cash balance, Mr T feels that it should've been for Lacomp to decide which stocks were sold 
to pay the charges, given its management responsibility and the fees that it took for this.
Lacomp didn't uphold the complaint. It felt that it was reasonable for the dis-investment 
process to be used for Mrs T's account as she was invested for growth rather than income, 
so there were likely to be few transactions on the account that might be impacted by the dis- 
investment process. It said this was generally how most of these accounts were operated 
and noted that it had been in place for Mrs T's account for five years. Lacomp felt that it was 
simply an unfortunate coincidence that the stock in question had been suspended at a point 
that coincided with the dis-investment process, and if the liquidation request had come 
at any other time no complaint would've been made.
Mr T referred the matter to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion as 
Lacomp. He felt that the use of the dis-investment process had been an efficient and 
reasonable way of running the account given the lack of regular transactions and that 
Lacomp had therefore not been negligent in selecting it. He noted that Lacomp had acted 
promptly on the instruction to liquidate the portfolio, and he ultimately agreed that the 
situation had been unfortunate but not a result of Lacomp acting unreasonably.
Mr T didn't accept the investigator's view. He said, in brief:
Any prospective sale from the portfolio could've failed because of an overlap with the 
dis-investment process.The platform provider had warned Lacomp that this could be an issue and given its 
large management fee it should've acted.
Given Mrs T's age and health there should've always been a cash holding to limit 
portfolio risk and increase liquidity.
It had been negligent of Lacomp to do anything that could restrict instructions being 
carried out.
 
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter's been referred to 
me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was clearly unfortunate that the liquidation of Mrs T's portfolio coincided with the dis- 
investment process and the suspension of the particular stock. But I don't think it was any 
more than that. I don't think the loss created by the situation was a result of any failure on 
the part of Lacomp.
The account had been set up with the platform charges paid by way of dis-investment, rather 
than from a cash balance, for around five years. And it had never created a problem before, 
primarily it seems because there were very few transactions for the process to overlap with. 
But even if there were a greater number of transactions, as Mr T has suggested, 
these clearly hadn't been impacted by the dis-investment process, at least to any extent that 
caused a problem for Mrs T.
Lacomp has said that it was its usual approach with this type of account to adopt the dis- 
investment process, where the objective was growth rather than income. Mr T has 
questioned whether, given his mother's age and health, growth should've been a major 
objective. But I think the reference to growth is simply in respect of the issue I've mentioned 
above, the lower number of transactions likely on an account intended for growth, as 
opposed to income, and therefore the chance of them being impacted. In any event, I think 
any concerns regarding  Mrs T's investment objectives or exposure to risk are separate 
issues that Lacomp would need to be given opportunity to respond to if they were to be 
looked at further.
Mr T has highlighted the level of management fees taken by Lacomp and that if the dis- 
investment process was to be used it should've fallen upon Lacomp to decide which stocks 
were sold to pay the fees, rather than it being left to the platform provider to select 
by default. But this wouldn't have been a normal way of conducting this type of process and 
I've not seen anything to suggest that there was any agreement that Lacomp would make 
those sorts of decisions, even if it were able to.
In summary, while I can understand the frustration caused by the situation, I don't see 
there's any basis on which to conclude that Lacomp acted incorrectly or caused it. I've seen 
nothing that persuades me that Lacomp acted contrary to warnings issued by the platform 
provider. Using the dis-investment process was a standard procedure, reasonable in the 
circumstances, and not something that was likely to negatively impact Mrs T's account, any 
more that leaving cash uninvested was likely to.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of
Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman