DRN-4069490
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the standard of service and communication received from 
Premier Underwriting Limited (Premier) following an accident when Mrs P was a named 
driver, under Mr Ps motor insurance policy.   
I will refer to Mr P as the lead complainant in my decision. 
What happened
Mrs P was driving when a third-party driver collided with her and her husbands car. She 
contacted their insurance broker and was told as she wasnt at fault a claim wouldnt be 
made against Mr Ps policy. Mrs P was told that another company would handle the claim. 
She says it wasnt explained that the broker took no responsibility for the actions of this 
company. And that this company wasnt acting as part of the insurance policy. 
Mrs P says she didnt understand the process but assumed what she had been told was 
correct. The following month the company dealing with the claim called to say it had been 
unable to contact the third-party insurer. Mr P says he was told the claim was being passed 
onto his underwriter (Premier). He says the company dealing with the claim only made three 
attempts to contact the third-partys insurer. 
Mr P says when he spoke to Premier it directed him to the third-partys insurer to pursue his 
claim. Alternatively, he would have to make a claim on his policy. He says he expects 
Premier to support him in a claim against the third-party insurer, without having to claim 
against his own insurance. He says in this case the increase in his premium would mean its 
not worthwhile claiming as the repairs were estimated to cost £700.
Mr P says that due to poor communication from his broker and Premier he has been unable 
to have his car repaired. 
In its complaint response Premier says Mr Ps broker told it the claim would be going through 
the third-partys insurer. Its for this reason that it says it didnt progress the claim. Mr P didnt 
think this was fair and asked our service to consider the matter. 
Our investigator upheld his complaint. He says Premier didnt clearly explain the options to 
Mr P when he called, which caused confusion. He says it shouldve explained that he could 
make a claim under his policy and Premier would follow its process to establish liability for 
the accident with the third-party insurer.
Our investigator thought Premier should pay Mr P £150 compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience it caused him. Mr P didnt agree with this outcome. He says our services 
approach to dealing with his concerns about his broker and Premier separately is flawed. He 
says the companies are linked and the matter can only be dealt with fairly as a whole. He 
asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. However, Ive not seen reason to add to the 
remedy our investigator set out. I understand this will be a disappointment to Mr P. But I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair.
Ive read the correspondence exchanged between Mr P, his broker and Premier. When the 
claim was reported by Mrs P to the broker, my understanding is that it offered the services of 
an accident management company (AMC). If this approach is agreed the AMC will handle 
the claim and arrange for any repairs. AMCs services are generally offered when a third-
party is thought to be at fault for the accident. The benefit is that the customer doesnt have 
to claim using their own policy, they dont have to pay the policy excess fee, and are usually 
provided with a like-for-like hire car. 
From the information provided the AMC couldnt contact the third-partys insurer. So, it 
referred the claim back to Mr Ps insurer. The AMC had no further part in the claim from this 
point. 
I note Mr Ps comments about the minimal effort the AMC made to contact the third-party 
insurer. I dont disagree with what he says. But my remit is to consider Premiers actions. I 
wont be considering issues relating to the AMC or Mr Ps broker in my decision. This is 
because the AMC wasnt acting on behalf of Premier and the broker is a regulated service 
provider in itself. I understand our service is dealing with a separate complaint about the 
brokers involvement. 
Ive listened to a call recording from when Mr P first spoke to Premier about his claim. He 
explains to its agent that the matter has been passed on to it from his broker, and queries 
why its taken a month and a half to get to this point. Premiers agent explains there are no 
claims recorded against Mr Ps policy, so it hasnt yet been made aware of this matter. 
During the call Mr P says he doesnt want to claim on his policy and describes how 
confusing the involvement of multiple companies has been. 
Mr P provides Premiers agent with the name of the third-party insurer. The agent says this 
is the broker for the third-party and says Premier is the underwriter for both, which may 
explain some of the confusion. 
During the call Premiers agent speaks to his manager, placing the call on hold on two 
occasions. Having obtained advice he confirms to Mr P that if he doesnt want to claim under 
his own policy, he will have to contact the third-party insurer directly. Mr P asks why he has 
to do that himself. The agent says that Premier can deal with the claim but that if Mr P 
doesnt want to claim under his policy, he has to contact the third-party directly. The call then 
ends.
Having listened to the call Mr P was clearly confused about the involvement of the AMC and 
didnt understand the distinction between the role of his insurance broker and Premier as the 
underwriter of his policy. I dont think Premiers agent did a good job of explaining the 
situation or options available. It can be confusing when multiple companies are involved in 
an insurance claim. Especially for someone without industry knowledge. 
Premier wasnt involved initially when the AMC was appointed to act for Mr P. But it did have 
the opportunity to explain the process clearly when Mr P spoke to its agent. More 
specifically, it shouldve explained that it could handle the claim on Mr Ps behalf and pursue the third-party as the at-fault driver via their insurer. Premiers agent didnt explain this point 
clearly. Had he done so I think Mr P will have understood the options available to pursue a 
non-fault claim and he wouldve been in an informed position to decide how to proceed. 
Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr P. I understand his car was driveable after the 
collision. However, it has remained in a damaged state and Mr P was left confused and 
frustrated as he wasnt given a clear explanation of how his claim could be progressed. In 
these circumstances I think Premier should pay Mr P £150 compensation for the lack of 
clear information. 
Premier told our investigator it would speak to Mr P about his claim. Im not aware if this 
happened or if Mr P has been able to progress the matter further. I note his comments that 
he has suffered a financial loss, and this should be paid for by Premier or his broker. 
Mr P can make a claim under his policy by contacting Premier if he hasnt already done so. 
As discussed, it can then dispute liability with the third-party insurer. From the call recording 
Ive listened to Mr P didnt want Premier to pursue a claim under his policy. Albeit this was 
likely influenced by the lack of clear information from its agent.
In summary I dont think Premier treated Mr P fairly, which likely delayed the repairs to his 
car, due to a lack of clear information from its agent. It should pay £150 compensation to 
acknowledge this point. However, Mr P can choose to make a claim under his policy with 
Premier should he wish and hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Premier Underwriting Limited should:
pay Mr and Mrs P £150 for the frustration and inconvenience it caused them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman