DRN-3356128
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M have complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined a 
claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M owned a property that they were unable to visit for many months due to 
covid restrictions. When Mr M and Mrs M next visited their property, they found the heating 
oil had run out and this had led to damage to their property. 
Mr M and Mrs M made a claim under their insurance policy. However, Ageas declined the 
claim because it said it wasnt an insured event. So, Mr M and Mrs M complained. When 
Ageas replied, it maintained its decision to decline the claim, as oil running out wasnt an 
insured event. It said the damage was the result of wear and tear or a gradually operating 
cause. It also said there was a requirement in the policy for the property to be inspected 
every 14 days, which they hadnt complied with.
When Mr M and Mrs M complained to this service, out investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said the oil running out wasnt an insured event. As there was no cover under 
the policy, it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim.
As Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
For a claim to be accepted, it needs to be the result of a one-off insured event covered by 
the policy. Ageas declined the claim because it said what happened wasnt an insured event.
Mr M and Mrs Ms claim was for damp and damage as a result of the oil running out at their 
property, which caused the heating to fail. Ive looked at the insurance policy wording. The 
policy doesnt provide cover for oil running out at a property. The closest insured event is 
an escape of oil. But that isnt what happened. The oil ran out at the property while Mr M and 
Mrs M were unable to visit. Without an insured event having taken place, there is no cover 
under the policy. 
Mr M and Mrs M have also said Ageas should have sent a surveyor or engineer to inspect 
the damage. However, as Ageas knew from the information provided by Mr M and Mrs M 
there was no cover under the policy, I cant see that Ageas had any reason to send a 
surveyor.
Im aware that Ageas referred to a condition under the policy about the property needing to 
be inspected every 14 days and that Mr M and Mrs M thought it was unfair to apply this 
condition as they were prevented from visiting the property due to covid restrictions. 
However, unless what happened was insured under the policy, the condition didnt need to 
be applied anyway. Regardless of whether Mr M and Mrs M were able to visit the property, 
there still needed to be an insured event. From what Ive seen, Ageas didnt decline the 
claim based on whether Mr M and Mrs M were able to visit. It declined the claim because the 
oil running out wasnt covered by the policy. So, thinking about everything that happened, I 
think it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim and I dont require it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman