DRN-2777777
The complaint
Miss M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit 
card account.
What happened
Miss M she opened the Capital One account in March 2019 and at the time had a number of 
loans. She says she had a gambling problem and if Capital One had looked at her bank 
statements it would have known that. Miss M says the lending was irresponsible and 
unaffordable and would like the balance written off and any interest or charges refunded. 
She says she had mental health problems and they were affected by Capital Oness lending 
decision.
Capital One says it carried out appropriate checks on Miss Ms application and says she was 
working with an income of over £16,000 with limited outgoings. It says there wasnt any 
adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file and it received required repayments 
until July 2019 when she entered into a debt plan. Capital One says the account defaulted at 
the same time.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Capital One had carried out appropriate checks and didnt need to check the bank 
statements. And a moderate credit limit was approved. The investigator thought Miss M had 
the benefit of the money and so it would be unfair to order Capital One to refund it and that it 
correctly registered a default.
Miss M doesnt accept that view and says although there was under 20 gambling 
transactions it was a lot of money to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss M will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and providers of credit should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on 
any credit or lending applications. Those checks will of course vary on the type of lending 
and the amount. This was an application for a credit facility.
I have looked at Capital Ones records and can see that Miss M applied for the account and 
told it she was in employment earning over £16,000 a year. I can see Capital One carried 
out checks on the application which included checks of Miss Ms credit file. I dont think Miss 
M had any adverse information recorded on her credit file such as any defaults or County 
Court Judgements. So, Im satisfied Capital One carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on Miss Ms application and gave her what I think is a relatively modest credit limit of 
£500. It follows that I dont think the lending was unaffordable or irresponsible and I have not 
seen evidence of multiple loans.
I appreciate Miss M says Capital One should have looked at her bank statements or asked 
her about any issues. But I think it was up to Miss M to tell Capital One about any such 
issues and as Miss M knows, gambling is not illegal and its up to her to decide how to spend 
her money. I dont think it reasonable for Capital One in these circumstances to have 
checked the bank statements and looked at how Miss M spent her money. I have made 
clear that Im satisfied Capital One did carry out appropriate checks.
I think Capital One is required to accurately report the account position to the Credit 
Reference Agencies and find that is what took place here. I also make clear to Miss M that 
even if I thought the lending was inappropriate, I would not have ordered Capital One to 
write off the balance owed, as clearly Miss M had the benefit of that money.
Overall, Im satisfied Capital One carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss 
Ms credit application and so I cant order it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman