DRN-4099748
The complaint
Mr I complains that British Gas Insurance Limited downgraded his boiler insurance cover 
unfairly.
Reference to British Gas includes its agents.
What happened
Mr I held a central heating insurance policy with British Gas.
When he installed a new boiler, British Gas carried out a first visit to check everything was 
working fine. It wasnt, and the heating system failed the checks on that first visit due to a 
leak.
As a consequence, British Gas reduced his level of cover from Central Heating Breakdown 
cover to Gas Appliance Check.
Mr I wasnt happy about this and complained. He said hed had issues with the central 
heating prior to installing the new boiler  hes said thats why he installed it in the first place. 
And hes said the issue that meant the checks failed on the first visit was shown to not be 
with the boiler, but with the central heating system itself, which hasnt been changed.
British gas didnt change its stance. It said it thinks the damage to the heating system was 
related to the new boiler installation. And it said any issue with the heating system now pre-
dated the policy that was in place.
So, Mr I brought his complaint to us. Ultimately our investigator thought it should be upheld. 
He thought British Gas should reinstate the central heating breakdown cover, assess any 
claim against either this policy, or previous policies where cover was in place  i.e. not say 
the leak pre-dates this policy, and pay Mr I £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr I accepted this, British Gas didnt and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It maintained 
the issue with the central heating was most likely to have been caused by the installation of 
the new boiler.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
I understand the need for British gas to carry out a visit following the installation of 
the new boiler.
This visit found a fault with the system. But I dont think its fair that British Gas 
reduce the level of cover as a result.
This is because from everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded the issue has been 
caused, or is related to the installation of the new boiler.
I understand British Gass reasons for thinking it is, but Mr I has said there were 
issues with the system prior to the installation  thats why he installed a new boiler to 
begin with. And its been confirmed the issue is not with the boiler, but with the 
remaining part of the central heating system that wasnt changed.
I note that no claim has been made relating to this issue prior to the new boiler being 
installed, but that doesnt mean there was no issue. And I find Mr Is account of 
events plausible.
So, I think the fair thing would be to reinstate the central heating breakdown cover 
from renewal. 
Because Mr I has had continuous cover, I dont think it fair to say the issue hes 
experiencing predates his cover. Unless British Gas can show it pre-dates the first 
policy he took out with it.
So, any claim for the central heating issue should be assessed in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy.
Having your cover reduced will have been distressing for Mr I. I agree that £150 
compensation is a fair amount to pay to acknowledge this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to:
Reinstate the central heating breakdown cover from when it was downgraded to Gas 
Appliance Check cover.
Assess any claim (should one be made) for the leak, in line with the policy conditions, 
not relying on the clause excluding pre-existing damage.
Pay Mr I £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman