DRN-3723673
The complaint
Miss S complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds service under her private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S had private medical insurance insured by AXA. In April 2022 she contacted AXA as 
shed seen her GP because she was worried about her headaches but the GP wouldnt refer 
her for an MRI scan. AXA told Miss S about its Doctor Care Anywhere (DCA) GP on-line 
service under the policy.
On 10 May 2022 Miss S had a consultation with DCA and DCA sent a referral for an 
appointment for a MRl scan to the hospital. The same day AXA emailed Miss S to tell her 
she had cover for the MRI, the name of the hospital for the scan and that the hospital would 
contact her with an appointment.
On 21 May 2022 Miss S told AXA she hadnt heard from the hospital. DCA resubmitted the 
referral for the MRl scan, which was confirmed to Miss S on 23 May 2022.
On 25 or 26 May 2022 (both dates are noted in AXAs records) Miss S called AXA to cancel 
her policy as she was unhappy she still hadnt heard from the hospital. AXA offered to help 
with the situation which Miss S declined and the policy was cancelled.
Miss S complained to us about AXAs service. She said shed paid for the policy to have fast 
service but shed waited weeks for a hospital appointment and as she hadnt heard from the 
hospital she cancelled her policy. She wants the policy premiums refunded as she says AXA 
gave her poor service.
After Miss S complained to us AXA offered Miss S £100 compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill in relation to the complaint. AXA said it couldnt control when the hospital made 
appointments. But the DCA hadnt followed up with the hospital to check if an appointment 
had been arranged until Miss S contact on 21 May. Miss S didnt comment on the offer.
Our investigator said AXAs offer was fair.
Miss S disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said as she didnt get a  
hospital appointment she didnt get the service she needed and AXA should have got the 
appointment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say that the insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I have to decide if AXA acted fairly and reasonably and I think it now has. Ill explain why.
Miss S policy AXA provides cover for the eligible costs of private medical treatment subject 
to the policy terms and condition. AXA told Miss S it had approved cover for the MRI in line 
with the policy terms and conditions the same day the referral was made, so it reasonably 
accepted the claim.
But Miss S complaint is AXA gave poor service as the hospital took too long in sending her 
an appointment for the MRI scan.
The DCA referred Miss S to the hospital on the day the DCA saw her, 10 May, and Miss S 
cancelled her policy on or about 25 May 2022 so about 15 days after the referral was made. 
I think AXA, through the DCA, promptly made the referral. AXA isnt responsible for the 
hospital not contacting Miss S with an appointment within that time. Its the hospital, not 
AXA, that schedules in the hospital medical appointments. 
When on 21 May Miss S told AXA she hadnt heard from the hospital the DCA resubmitted 
the referral, which was reasonable action for it to take. In the call on 25 or 26 May when 
Miss S told AXA she was still waiting for an appointment AXA offered to help Miss S with the 
situation, which was also reasonable action for it to take, but Miss S declined. 
AXA accepts DCA hadnt followed up the MRI referral before then, as AXA said would 
usually happen. If thered been an earlier follow up its possible Miss S might have received 
the scan appointment from the hospital before she cancelled the policy. But I cant fairly say 
thats more likely than not to have happened as it would still be dependent on the hospitals 
MRI scan appointment availability. AXA told us a two weeks wait for a private MRI scan isnt 
unusual and in my experience of dealing with private medical insurance cases a wait of 
15/16 days isnt an overly long time to wait for such an appointment.
Miss S wants her policy premiums refunded as she says she paid for a service she didnt 
get. But Miss S paid her premiums for insurance cover and the policy did provide Miss S with 
cover, subject to the policy terms and conditions, for the time the policy was in force. So 
theres no basis for me to say AXA must refund the premiums to her.
AXA offered Miss S £100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill as it said it could have  
given better service by chasing the referral sooner than it did. I think thats a fair and 
reasonable offer. As AXA only made the offer after Miss S complained to us Ive partly 
upheld the complaint.
Putting things right
If AXA hasnt already done so it should pay Miss S £100 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience due to its service, as its now offered. 
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and if its not already done so I require AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited to pay Miss S £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience due to its 
service, as its now offeredUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman