DRN-4027324
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that MBNA Limited defaulted his account and reported it as such to the 
credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr S had an MBNA credit account that was in arrears. In May 2022, MBNA sent a default 
notice to Mr S which asked him to arrange repayment of the account arrears by the middle of 
the following month. Mr S didnt make an arrangement to clear his account arrears by the 
middle of the following month, so MBNA issued a final notice to him which explained they 
would terminate his credit agreement if he didnt take steps to bring his account up to date. 
Following the issuance of this final notice, MBNA didnt hear from Mr S, and so they 
defaulted his account. Mr S wasnt happy about this and didnt feel that MBNA had taken 
due account of his health issues before defaulting his account. So, he raised a complaint.
MBNA responded to Mr Ss complaint and noted that theyd spoken with Mr S on several 
occasions and offered financial assistance to him, which hed declined. As such, MBNA 
didnt feel theyd acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation. Mr S wasnt satisfied 
with MBNAs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt it had been fair for MBNA to 
have followed the process they did and defaulted Mr Ss account as they had. Mr S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issues guidance on when a credit provider 
such as MBNA should consider defaulting a credit account for the non-payment of account 
arrears. This guidance includes that a credit provider should generally provide a notice to an 
account holder that their account may be defaulted when that account has fallen into around 
three months of arrears, and that an account should be defaulted preferably before an 
account falls into more than six months of arrears  and this appears to be what MBNA did 
in this instance.
Mr S has explained that he was experiencing financial difficulty in part because of health 
issues. As a credit provider, MBNA also have an obligation to treat customers who are 
experiencing financial difficulty sympathetically and with appropriate forbearance, and upon 
consideration, I feel that they did that here.
For instance, I note that in March 2022, MBNA spoke with Mr S and discussed his personal 
and financial situation with him. At this time, Mr Ss account was in a position of multiple 
arrears, and MBNA discussed arranging a plan in consideration of Mr Ss position to bring 
the account back up to date. However, Mr S rejected any such plan, because he was 
unhappy that the plan would be reported by MBNA to his credit file.
I can appreciate that Mr S may not have wanted a payment arrangement to be reported to 
his credit file. But all credit providers have an obligation to make accurate reports to the 
credit reference agencies  including when a payment plan is agreed. And so, Im satisfied 
that MBNA werent acting unfairly towards Mr S by confirming that any payment plan he did 
agree would be reported to his credit file.
MBNA then spoke with Mr S again in May 2022 and offered to go through his income and 
expenditure with him to gain a better understanding of his financial position with a view to 
potentially agreeing an arrears repayment plan with him. But Mr S declined to go through his 
income and expenditure with MBNA, meaning that no agreement could be reached.
Not long after speaking with Mr S in May, MBNA issued a default notice to Mr S. At that time, 
the arrears on Mr Ss account were more than £1,000 and the account had been in a 
position of arrears for several months.  Additionally, Mr S hadnt made any arrangement with 
MBNA to clear the arrears, despite MBNA requesting Mr S to do so. And so, given these 
facts, I dont feel that MBNA did act unfairly or unreasonably by issuing the default notice 
that they did.
The default notice issued by MBNA in May 2022 explained that MBNA required Mr S to 
either work with MBNA to agree an affordable payment plan to clear the arrears or make a 
payment to clear the arrears in full. And, while Mr S did make a payment of £410 in June 
2022, this payment didnt clear the arrears in full as requested, and Mr S didnt contact 
MBNA to discuss his financial position and agree an affordable payment plan with them. As 
such, Im satisfied that Mr S didnt meet the requirements of the default notice issued to him.
This meant that the following month, when the timeframe given on the default notice had 
expired, MBNA issued a final demand to Mr S which explained that if Mr S didnt clear the 
remaining account arrears in full or arrange a payment plan with MBNA that MBNA would 
terminate his credit agreement and default his account. And, because Mr S didnt 
subsequently do either of those things, Im satisfied that MBNA didnt then act unfairly 
towards him by defaulting his account and reporting it as such to the credit reference 
agencies as they did.
Im aware that Mr S doesnt feel that MBNA took due account of his health issues before 
defaulting his account, including that he was ill in the lead up to the default such that he 
wasnt able to open the default notice and final demand letters he received until after his 
account had been defaulted. 
I can sympathise with Mr Ss position, and I agree that its unfortunate that he wasnt able to 
read the letters that MBNA sent to him. But it doesnt follow from this misfortune that MBNA 
have treated Mr S unfairly. This is because  as explained at the beginning of this letter  it 
wouldnt be expected that MBNA would allow Mr Ss account to remain in a position of 
ongoing default indefinitely. And, ultimately, Im satisfied that MBNA followed a fair and 
reasonable account arrears process, including the act of defaulting Mr Ss account.
Additionally, I also dont feel that even if Mr S had read the default notice and final demand 
letters that he received from MBNA that the outcome was likely to have been any different 
here. And I say this because it seems clear from the financial difficulty that Mr S was 
experiencing that he wouldnt have been able to clear the full arrears amount as was 
required of him  and indeed, didnt do so  and also because Mr S had declined offers of 
payment arrangements from MBNA on several prior occasions.
All of which means that I dont feel that MBNA have acted unfairly towards Mr S here as he contends, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
MBNA to take any further action. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but I 
trust hell understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman