DRN-4061690
The complaint
Mr E complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim he made under his home 
insurance policy for subsidence.
Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr E bought a property in 2018 and took out home insurance for it, underwritten by 
Great Lakes. He got in touch with it to make a claim in 2020 after noticing crack 
damage to the garage and the utility room extension. After some investigation, the 
claim was declined on the basis the damage began before the policy started.
A complaint was referred to this Service. An investigator said it was reasonable for 
Great Lakes to decline the garage damage for this reason  but not the utility room 
damage. Great Lakes offered to have an independent review carried out about the 
cause of damage to the utility room. Mr E accepted this.
The independent review was carried out by a company Ill call B. After further 
investigation, B said the damage to the utility room had been caused by subsidence 
as a result of inadequate foundations  which isnt covered by the policy. It said the 
foundations didnt comply with guidance provided by a builder of new homes, N.
Mr E made a second complaint. He said Ns guidance wasnt relevant and the pre-
purchase survey didnt mention a problem in 2018. Great Lakes maintained it had 
fairly declined the claim based on the depth of the foundations. However, it accepted 
it had taken too long to reach that position and paid £150 compensation.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes had acted fairly in relation to the second 
complaint. Whilst he agreed reference to Ns guidance wasnt relevant, he said it had 
shown the foundation was inadequate given how shallow it was. And he thought the 
compensation paid for the delay was reasonable.
Mr E didnt think this was fair, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es first complaint was resolved when he accepted Great Lakes offer to review 
the cause of damage to the utility room. So I wont be reconsidering the first 
complaint. Ill only consider the second complaint, the crux of which is Great Lakes 
decision to decline the claim for the utility room damage. And the way the claim was 
handled since the offer was accepted in March 2022.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, but not where thats the result of 
poor design. Great Lakes accepts the damage was caused by subsidence. But it 
says this was the result of poor design based on the depth of the foundations.
Bs ground investigation found the utility room extension had a foundation of 95mm. It 
noted the adjoining kitchen extension had a foundation of 1,500mm. It said Ns 
guidelines would suggest the utility room foundation ought to have been at least 
1,000mm. And it thought 1,500mm would have been more appropriate in order to 
avoid differential movement between the two structures.
Theres nothing to suggest the utility room extension was built under the supervision 
of N, so I dont think its guidelines had to be followed by the builder. But its 
reasonable to expect the foundation to have been built to an appropriate depth, 
based on the best practice of the time  which I understand was the early 90s  
together with the specific site conditions.
Standards at that time suggested foundation depths significantly greater than 95mm 
to avoid the risk of foundation movement. I bear in mind 95mm is a similar depth to a 
typical paving slab. Thats highly unlikely to be a suitable foundation for a single-story 
brick structure by any standards. I also understand its long been considered best 
practice to avoid or limit the risk of differential movement between two adjoining 
structures by building them with the same or similar foundation depths. So even if Ns 
guidelines are disregarded, as I think they should be, Im satisfied the utility room 
was poorly designed bearing in mind the best practice at the relevant time and how 
shallow the foundation is.
That means Great Lakes was entitled to decline the claim by relying on the policy 
term for poor design. Mr E has questioned whether this would be fair, given he wasnt 
aware of any such problem when he bought the property. He had a pre-purchase 
survey carried out by a reputable surveying company and, relevant to this claim, it 
said: There is a utility and wc to the side of the property. It is built of brick and has a 
felt covered roof. The utility / wc is satisfactory for its use.
I can understand why those comments wouldnt have given Mr E cause for concern 
about the utility room. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr E was actively 
told the utility room extension was constructed to appropriate standards, such as 
Building Control approval or similar, when he bought the property. So I dont think 
this means it would be unfair for Great Lakes to rely on the poor design term.
Given the age of the utility room extension, if it had stood damage free for all that 
time and/or it was only damaged recently because of something which couldnt have 
been foreseen when the foundation was built  such as a drainage leak  then I may 
find it fair for Great Lakes to accept the claim. But I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest either situation has arisen here.
For the reasons above, Im satisfied it was fair for Great Lakes to decline the claim 
because of the poorly designed foundation.
Its always disappointing to see avoidable delays. But especially so in these 
circumstances, where part of the claim was initially declined unfairly, and Great 
Lakes offered to take further steps to consider the claim fully. It had a duty to 
consider the claim promptly and it didnt do so.So I think it was fair for Great Lakes to acknowledge its failings and pay 
compensation. Im satisfied £150 is a reasonable amount for the impact of the delays 
since March 2022. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman