DRN-4006325
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) were ageist 
towards him when he rang to try and sort out an issue with his banking app. Hes also 
unhappy with the length of time it took to respond to his complaint.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr B had trouble with his banking app after upgrading his phone as his 
password was not being recognised. Upon ringing Clydesdale, he felt that a couple of the 
advisers he spoke to were being ageist. He made a complaint at the time but it took 
Clydesdale until October 2022 to provide its final response to the complaint. Clydesdale 
upheld every aspect of Mr Bs complaint, apologised and paid Mr B £77.25 compensation. 
This was made up of £75 for distress and inconvenience and £2.25 mileage costs for a trip 
that Mr B made to the library to use a computer.
Our investigator thought that Clydesdale had acted reasonably. Mr B disagrees because he 
thinks the amount of compensation offered is inadequate. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B had been using the same password for years and so knew that he was inputting the 
correct details. However, a couple of the advisers were adamant that he must be entering it 
wrong. Also, in asking if he could get a family member to help him, the suggestion was that 
he was unfamiliar with using technology due to his age. After a few more phone calls the 
problem was eventually sorted out, however, Mr B was understandably frustrated with how 
he was dealt with initially.
None of this is in dispute. Clydesdales complaint handler listened to the calls and 
apologised for Mr Bs experience. This element of the complaint was therefore upheld and 
comments on the complaint were feedback to the contact centre. 
It is also not in dispute that Clydesdale took five months to deal with Mr Bs complaint. 
Clydesdale apologised that it failed to respond within an appropriate timeframe. It also 
apologised that the holding letters that it sent to Mr B were misleading. 
As Clydesdale fully upheld the complaint, I dont need to make any further finding about what 
happened. The question is whether the amount of compensation paid is sufficient for what 
occurred and the impact it had on Mr B.
I appreciate that it must have been very annoying for Mr B in May 2022 to be made to doubt 
himself and frustrating that the issue wasnt sorted out at the first time of asking. He had to 
make a number of phone calls over a few days, being on hold for at least half an hour on 
each occasion. He then had to chase up what was happening with his complaint over the 
next few months.
I agree that a monetary award is appropriate in this case. This services approach to 
compensation for distress and inconvenience is set out on our website and it should be 
noted that amounts are relatively modest compared to what some people might expect.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr B has said. But overall, Im satisfied that the 
amount of £77.25 compensation, in addition to the apology, was a reasonable and 
proportionate response to the errors that occurred. So I wont be asking Clydesdale to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman