DRN-3322142
The complaint
Miss M complains that when British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a problem 
with her gas pipework it caused her unnecessary stress and made her health issues worse. 
She wants British Gas to pay her £1,000 compensation for this.
What happened
Miss M returned home from a trip abroad and could hear unusual noises from the pipework 
in her home. She has Homecare cover with British Gas which covers circumstances like 
this and asked them to attend.
A contractor visited the same day but couldnt find a leak  although he could hear the noise 
and agreed more investigation was needed. A week later another engineer came to look at 
the problem. He found a broken water stopcock, which needed to be replaced by Miss Ms 
water supplier before anything more could be done. Later the same day another engineer 
turned off the water supply to prevent further damage.
Miss M had the stopcock replaced and over the next ten days four more engineers from 
British Gas went to Miss Ms home. On the final visit the problem was fixed.
Throughout this period Miss M says she was without heating and this made her long term 
illness worse than it normally was. She says she also suffered stress and this affected her 
blood pressure.
Miss M complained to British Gas about the way it had handled her claim. It agreed it should 
have dealt with things better and paid her £200 to make up for this.
Miss M didnt think that was enough so asked us to review her complaint.
Our investigator said he thought British Gas had made a fair offer. He did think three of the 
visits were unnecessary and that this had delayed fixing the problem by about ten days. But 
he thought some of the visits  particularly the earlier ones  were necessary. And he 
acknowledged that sometimes it can take a little while to get to the bottom of a problem and 
fix it. He also thought Miss M could have used other means of heating her home during this 
period if shed wanted to.
Miss M doesnt agree with our investigator so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, because although I think British Gas did make 
mistakes, I also think its done enough to make up for these.
Im not going to go into detail about all the visits made by British Gas  both it and Miss M 
are aware of what happened.
I do think there were delays in fixing the problem with the pipes  but I dont think all of these 
were down to British Gas. For instance, I dont think I can hold British Gas responsible for 
the extra work that was needed when it was found that a stopcock was broken internally and 
needed to be replaced by the water board. Nor can I say British Gas should be able to fix 
every problem on a first visit.
But I do agree that British Gas wasted time between 20 October and 29 October when the 
problem was finally fixed. By 20 October it knew broadly what the problem was and how 
much time and access was needed  so there was no need for the several visits that took 
place between these two dates (other of course than the last one when the repair was 
completed).
I do understand that making a claim is a stressful process. Often thats because its upsetting 
to find something is wrong with ones home and that a claim has to be made. I cant say 
British Gas is responsible for that. But it should compensate Miss M for any unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience it caused.
I have thought about what Miss M told us about her health, too. But the evidence she sent us 
is from some time after the problem was fixed, and I cant clearly link that to what British Gas 
did. Im sorry though that Miss M suffered any worsening of her health and trust she is now 
recovered.
Taking everything into account I think the £200 already paid by British Gas is sufficient.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman