DRN-3955414
The complaint
Mr J complains NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua refused to confirm his APR. He says this 
caused him to miss out on promotional rates with other credit card providers.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for 
these reasons:
Before Mr J came to our Service, NewDay provided him information on the standard 
interest rates that applied to his account. But they didnt confirm the APR until we 
became involved. Mr J had asked a relatively simple question, so it was somewhat 
disappointing to see NewDay didnt answer it as wed expect at the earliest 
opportunity. Therefore, I can understand why Mr J would have found this frustrating. 
However, I am pleased Mr J now has the information he asked for. 
While I appreciate NewDay sent Mr J the applicable APR later than hed hoped, 
I cant agree this caused him to miss out on promotional rates. Ultimately, Mr J 
always had access to the interest rates that applied to his account  whether that be 
on his statements, or the standard rates clarified by NewDay. Therefore, Mr J could 
have used this information to make an informed decision about whether to apply for 
another credit card  particularly given this is the information most consumers rely on 
when making such decisions about their finances. Ive not seen any evidence or 
details of the promotional rates Mr J says he missed out on. But in any event, it was 
Mr Js choice not to make an application with an alternative credit card provider 
offering promotional rates, and that isnt something I can reasonably hold NewDay 
responsible for. 
For these reasons, while I appreciate Mr Js frustrations, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Js complaint about NewDay Ltd trading as 
Aqua.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman