The complaint
Mr B complain s that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream reported incorrect 
information to his credit file damaging his creditworthiness and meaning he was unable to 
get credit at a reasonable rate. He wants his cred it file amended and compensation.
What happened
Mr B says th at two defaults were recorded on his credit file in October 2016. He says he was 
initially unaware of the defaults but then satisfied these by making the full payments in 
February 2018. However, in 2020 he found that Lending Stream was still recording his 
accounts as being in defau lt and th at it continued to record late payme nts until May 2021. 
Lending Stream said that it provided Mr B with two loans and due to non-payments, it 
correctly reported a default marker to Mr Bs credit file on 26 October 2016. The loans were 
transferred to a third party on 14 August 2017.
Our adjudicator thought that Lending Stream was correct to apply the defau lts in October 
2016 b ut said it was provide d with notification from the third party that Mr B has paid the 
outstanding balan ce in February 2018 and so the default should have removed at that time. 
Because the accounts continued to be reported as defaulted and recorded Mr B as having 
missed payments until May 2021 he thought th at Mr B had been caused distre ss and 
inconvenience. He re commended that Mr Bs credit file be amended to reflect that the 
accounts were settled in February 2018 and that Mr B should be paid £200 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience he was caused. 
Mr B accepted the view b ut then explained th at this was on condition that the defau lts were 
removed from hi s credit file.
Lending Stream amended Mr B s credit file. And our adjudicator confirmed that Lending 
Stream had provide screensh ots showing both loans end date as August 2017 (the date the 
loans were sold to third party) and that there was no reporting after this date. Therefore, he 
found the amendments recommended in his initial view had been appli ed. He also noted that 
there was a duplicate entry for one of the loan s which had an end date of September 2021 
and that Lending Stream had confirmed it had raised an amendment to remove this. 
Mr B didnt think the adjudicators recommendation s were enough. He sa id the misreporting 
had cost him more in higher cost credit than would be covered b y the £200 compensation. 
He al so said that he hadnt received the default notices and so wasnt given the opportunity 
to remedy his situa
tion. He said he contacted Lending Stream on several occasion s about 
this but only received copie s of the defau lt letters in 2020. He said that Lending Stream 
incorrectl y reported his accou nts as not being settled and applied late payment charges, and 
although this had now been updated the imp act was significant and because of this he 
thought it would be fair for the defaults to be removed completely. 
Page 1 of 3
DRN-3124202Page 2 of 3What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is upset that defaults were recorded on his credit file regarding two loans and then 
Lending Stream continued to record adverse information about these loans after he had 
settled the accounts. I can understand why this was upsetting for Mr B and note that Mr Bs 
credit file was affected for an extended period of time.
Having considered the complaint, I agree with our adjudicator that I cannot say the defaults 
were incorrectly applied in October 2016. Mr B hadnt made his payments due under the 
loans and was sent notices of this. I understand given his circumstances at the time that he 
may not have received the notices, but copies have been provided and these have the 
address on the loan agreements. So, I accept that they were correctly sent. Even accepting 
Mr B may not have received the default letters, it was his responsibility to maintain his 
payments, and the loan agreement set out what could happen if payments werent made on 
time, including the impact on Mr Bs credit file and so I think Mr B should have been 
reasonably aware of this. As Mr B didnt maintain his payments and Lending Stream took the 
actions we would expect to inform him of the status of his account, I do not find I can say 
Lending Stream did anything wrong by applying the defaults.
The loans were transferred to a third party in August 2017 and Mr B settled the accounts in 
February 2018. However, when Mr B checked his credit file in 2020 he realised that Lending 
Stream was still recording the defaults and missed payments. This shouldnt have 
happened. Because of this our adjudicator said that Lending Stream should update Mr Bs 
credit file with the correct information. Lending Stream has provided evidence to show the 
accounts as satisfied with no outstanding balance and the end date of August 2017 (when 
the transfer took place). It has removed any reporting after this date. I note that during this 
process Lending Stream also noted a duplicate account that was being recorded and 
requested that this was removed.  
While I appreciate that Mr B would like the defaults removed completely, as I do not find they 
were incorrectly recorded and Mr Bs credit file has been updated to remove the reporting 
from the transfer of the accounts, I find Lending Stream has done enough to resolve this part 
of the complaint.
Mr B was caused distress and inconvenience because of the incorrect reporting by Lending 
Stream. He raised the issue with Lending Stream in January 2021 but as the issue wasnt 
resolved he brought his complaint to this service. While I note Mr Bs comments about 
paying a higher cost for credit due to the reporting, I do not have evidence to show this. 
Considering all of this, our adjudicator recommended that Mr B be paid £200 compensation. 
In this case, I find this reasonable and I understand this has been paid to Mr B.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator recommended in his view that Lending Stream update Mr Bs credit file to 
reflect the accounts being settled in February 2018 and pay Mr B £200 compensation. I 
agree with this as a resolution to this complaint.
Based on the information provided by Lending Stream it appears that the amendments have 
been made to Mr Bs credit file and the compensation paid. 
My final decisionPage 3 of 3My final decision is that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream was required to take 
actions to resolve this complaint as set out above these actions have been taken. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman