DRN-2550420
The complaint
Miss T complained that, in 2016, Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a packaged bank account 
(PBA). She also complained that Santander didnt return her account to the type of account 
she had had previously. 
What happened
On 23 February 2016 Miss Ts account changed from an Everyday current account to a 
Choice account. There was no monthly fee for the Everyday account, but there was a £6 a 
day charge for an unauthorised overdraft and £10 for failed payments (such as direct debits).  
The Choice account cost £10 a month, but it was designed to try to stop payments that 
would otherwise make a customer go into an unauthorised overdraft; and if this did happen, 
Santander didnt charge an extra fee. 
In the month before the switch, Miss T had incurred significant charges on her Everyday 
account. This is what had prompted a phone conversation between her and Santander, 
which led to the account being changed. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said she thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. She said that she considered Miss T had agreed to the change in the account, 
and that Santander had left this to Miss T as a choice, without making a recommendation to 
her. 
Our adjudicator shared with Miss T the call recording of February 2016, in which the change 
of account had been agreed. Miss T listened to this and accepted that she had agreed to the 
change. 
The adjudicator said to Miss T that she thought Santander hadnt acted unreasonably in 
saying that she needed to visit a branch, go online, or speak to an adviser to change the 
account. 
Miss T didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss T has accepted that she consented to the change of account in 2016. Ive listened to 
that call too, and I think Santander made clear it wasnt advising Miss T to take the 
account. But the adviser did explain how it would stop the charges for unauthorised 
overdrafts that Miss T was incurring. I think the adviser conducted the call reasonably and 
it was clear Miss T had a choice  and Miss T did clearly agree that it was a good idea to 
take the new account. 
I think Santander has also been reasonable in saying Miss T needs to contact it, to give 
clear instructions about which account she wants. I listened to the calls, when Miss T 
complained by phone, and an adviser told Miss T that she needed to do this. And when 
Santander wrote to Miss T, it said it couldnt advise her which account to change to, and 
that it would need to explain the terms and conditions of whichever account she chose.  
I think it was reasonable that Santander wanted to follow its normal processes to ensure 
that things were done properly. As Miss T had already made several calls to Santander 
about her banking, I dont see that it was an unreasonable requirement that she call once 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman