DRN-3878328
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd declined his application to open an account with them.
What happened
In 2021, Mr P applied for an account with Monzo  and it was declined. Monzo didnt tell
Mr P the reasons why they declined his application, but Mr P remembered applying for an
account in 2019 which was also declined.
Mr P was concerned Monzo may have made a discriminatory decision.
Our investigator reviewed things and thought Monzo may have used information from Mr Ps
previous account application in 2019 when assessing his account application in 2021. Our
investigator thought Monzo should have treated the 2021 application as brand new, and new
checks should have been carried out. So, he recommended Monzo pay Mr P £100
compensation.
Mr P agreed. Monzo didnt. In summary, they said they were entitled to decide who they
offer accounts to.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me.
In December 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Firstly, I would add that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive
information. Some of the information Monzo has provided is information that we considered
should be kept confidential. This means I wont be able to share a lot of detail with Mr P, but
Id like to assure him that I have considered everything.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on
regulated financial businesses to have suitable systems in place to allow them to carry out
sufficient Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. This applies to both new and existing
relationships. It is essential that Monzo carry out checks on account applications  including
Mr Ps  to meet these legal requirements.
I appreciate Mr P is concerned that Monzo may have made a discriminatory decision when
declining his account application. But Im afraid, I cant reasonably agree. Monzo have
shared information on their policies with our service  and having reviewed this, Im satisfied
the reasons for declining Mr Ps account was appropriate. Im aware Monzo havent shared
the details with Mr P, and Im sorry I cant share this information either, but Id like to
reassure him that I am satisfied Monzo have acted appropriately in the circumstances.
Our investigator thought Monzo should have carried out brand new checks in 2021  rather
than using existing information from 2019. While in some circumstances I would agree with
this, certain personal identification information would remain the same. Therefore, Im
satisfied that Monzo used some existing information from Mr Ps profile which would have
still been relevant.
So, overall, I was satisfied that Monzo were following their own internal procedures and 
complying with their regulatory obligations when declining Mr Ps account application. 
Neither Monzo, nor Mr P, responded to my provisional decision with any further evidence or 
arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party raised further arguments, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. In summary, Im satisfied Monzo were reasonable when declining Mr Ps account 
application as they were following their own internal procedures and complying with their 
regulatory obligations.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman