DRN-2876373
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as P has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim, after it was forced to close due to the Covid-
19 pandemic.
Mrs M, a director of P, has brought the complaint on Ps behalf. 
What happened
P held a business interruption insurance policy with Aviva. It claimed on its policy after being 
forced to close due to the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
Aviva said there was no cover under the policy, as extensions which looked like they might 
be relevant required damage to property. And Aviva didnt think Covid-19 had damaged 
property. Aviva said, while the policy did cover business interruption due to a list Specified 
Diseases, Covid-19 wasnt included in the list. So, Aviva turned down Ps claim.
Unhappy with Avivas response, P brought its complaint to our service. P said it thought the 
policy should cover pandemics and it also thought the Supreme Court judgment following the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case meant its claim should be paid. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought Aviva had turned 
down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and said the outcome of the 
test case didnt impact Ps claim. 
P didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ps business. But, for the same reasons as the investigator, I wont be upholding 
its complaint.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Aviva has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ps claim.
While I have considered the whole policy, the following sections of the policy are the most 
likely to have covered this situation so I will explain why they dont provide cover in this 
instance. 
Damage
The business interruption section of Ps policy says:
We will cover You for loss of Income resulting from Damage to property used by 
You at Your Premises for the purposes of Your Business. Such Damage must 
occur during the Period of Insurance, and be caused by a Specified Insured
Event(s)/Insured Event(s) which is not excluded by the Property Damage Section 
of this policy, and for which liability has been admitted under an insurance policy
covering Your interest in such property.
Damage is defined within the policy as Physical loss, destruction or damage. For this to 
provide cover, Covid-19 would need to have caused damage to property used by P at its 
premises. I havent seen anything to indicate Covid-19 caused damage to property used by 
P at its premises, so I dont think this provides cover for the circumstances of its claim.
Prevention of Access and Loss of Attraction
The cover provided by the policy is then extended by various extensions. The extension for 
prevention of access says:
Damage by any cause included under the Property Damage section to property
within one mile of the boundary of Your Premises which physically prevents or
restricts access to, or use of, Your Premises
And the extension for Loss of Attractions states:
Damage to Property or premises within one mile of the boundary of Your 
Premises which causes a loss of Income directly due to a reduction in customers 
visiting the area
Both of these extensions would require Covid-19 to have caused damage to property within 
one-mile of the boundary of Ps premises which physically prevented or restricted access to 
Ps premises. I havent seen anything to indicate thats the case, so Im afraid these 
extensions dont provide cover either. 
Specified Disease
The relevant part of this extension provides cover as a result of:
 
Specified Disease occurring at Your Premises or within five miles of the
boundary of Your Premises

The discovery of an organism at Your Premises which is likely to result in any
person contracting an illness caused by food or drink poisoning or a Specified
Disease
The policy says that for the purposes of this cover Specified Disease is defined in the 
policy. The policy goes on to set out a list of covered diseases. Unfortunately, this extension 
also does not provide P with cover in the current circumstances, as Covid-19 isnt one of the 
specified illnesses.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something Aviva necessarily 
would have known about when the policy was drafted. However, there are policies that 
provide cover for all notifiable diseases, which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and which does include Covid-19. In contrast, Ps policy sets out a specified 
list of illnesses which are covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which 
implies that it provides cover for illnesses not included, including any new illnesses which 
emerge. The purpose and effect of this policy is to provide cover in the event of these 
specific illnesses. There are in fact many illnesses that the policy doesnt cover, including 
illnesses like SARS. Therefore, I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as 
covering any and all disease.
FCA test case
P has also referred to the FCAs test case. However, the terms in Ps policy were
different to those considered in the test case, so I dont think the outcome of that case
impacts Ps claim.
I understand P believes Aviva hasnt acted fairly in declining its claim. But having considered 
the matter carefully I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay Ps claim when there isnt 
cover under the terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman