DRN-2187003
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading as LV (LV) have 
recorded an accident against him on his car insurance.
What happened
Mr D contacted LV in August 2019 and told them he was returning to his parked car and, 
when he opened his door, it touched another vehicle. Mr D explained this was noted by the 
driver of the other vehicle but there was no damage caused. Mr D says he was told by LV 
this would remain on his policy for six months and then removed. Mr D says when his 
renewal came through, his premium had increased and an accident had been noted. 
 
Mr D complained to LV and said he was unhappy they had made a record of the incident 
and felt they should delete the record as no claim was made. LV responded and referred to 
Mr Ds original call to LV to report the incident where they said he confirmed his car door did 
touch the other vehicle. LV didnt uphold the complaint and explained they have a duty to 
record any incident reported to them whether a claim is made or not, so they wouldnt be 
deleting the record. LV also said the event was recorded as an incident only and not a claim 
and it hasnt had any effect on Mr Ds no claims discount. LV also explained, although the 
incident had been closed down as information-only, it would still show on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database for the next five years as an incident. 
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D and felt that LV hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in relation to the recording of the incident. Mr D disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr D will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I think its helpful for me to firstly provide a summary of the CUE process. This is a database 
of incidents which includes motor, home and personal injury. Its purpose is to identify 
misrepresentation and prevent fraud. Not all insurers are signed up to CUE, but the majority 
are. If an insurer is signed up to CUE, theyll make a record of any incident theyve been 
made aware of and whether it leads to a claim or not. Insurers have a duty to make accurate 
records. Claims remain on CUE for six years from the date the claim is closed. 
Ive seen from claim notes provided by LV they have closed this incident as information-only 
on their own systems. The claim notes also show this has been closed as incident-only for 
the purposes of the CUE database. The issue here relates to what information has been 
recorded, so Ive considered whether LV have acted fairly and reasonably in recording the 
information in the way they have.  
Ive listened to the telephone call Mr D first made to LV to report the incident. During this call, 
Mr D told LV that his car door did touch the other vehicle. LV explained there were two 
options; they could log this as a claim on their system and wait to hear from the other party 
or they could wait to hear from the other party before logging anything. LV explained it was 
Mr Ds decision on what he wanted to do. Mr D continued to report the incident and provided 
further details. LV explained they would let Mr D know if they do receive a claim but if they 
dont hear anything within the next six months they would close this down as information-
only. There are a number of occasions during this call that Mr D mentions his car door 
touching the other vehicle, so I dont think LV have acted unreasonably in making a record 
following Mr Ds call.    
I have seen that Mr D then told LV during a later call that he was carrying a bag and it was 
this that touched the other vehicle rather than his car door. LV addressed this in their 
response to Mr Ds complaint and said they had listened to the first call Mr D made and were 
satisfied he mentioned his car door touching the other vehicle. I dont think its unreasonable 
for LV to rely on the account given by Mr D during the first call. The call was made on the 
same day as the incident so its reasonable for LV to take the view that Mr Ds account is 
accurate. In addition to this, and as mentioned above, during the first call Mr D mentioned on 
a number of occasions that his car door touched the other vehicle. So, I dont think its unfair 
or unreasonable for LV to have recorded this event on their own records or as an incident on 
the CUE database. LV have a duty to make accurate records, and thats what theyve done.    
Mr D has mentioned hes been given mixed messages during calls with LV. Mr D was told 
during the first call that LV would close this matter after six months if they didnt hear 
anything. In later calls, Mr D is told that this information will remain on the CUE database for 
another five years. So, I can understand why this caused confusion for Mr D. Its important to 
note, the timeframe of six months referred to in the first call relates to LVs records and I can 
see, in line with what theyve said, this matter was closed on LVs systems. And, I think it can 
be said, with the benefit of hindsight, had LV provided more information about the CUE 
database and the timeframes applicable to this during the first call then it mightve avoided 
the situation where Mr D felt he was being given mixed messages. But, this alone doesnt 
make LVs actions unreasonable here, particularly as the conversation during the first call 
didnt lead to an opportunity for LV to discuss the CUE database. Additionally, I can see that 
LV did then provide clear information about this in later calls when Mr D queried the 
timeframes.   
So, taking the above into account, I dont think LV have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
recording the information they have in relation to the incident which Mr D reported.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman