DRN-3696223
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) has refused to handle his 
claim until he returns a phone issued to him following a different claim on a different policy. 
What happened
Mr F had mobile phone insurance, underwritten by AGI, and provided through his bank. He 
lost his phone and claimed under the policy. On checking Mr Fs claim history, AGI saw 
there was an outstanding issue with a previous claim. 
Mr F had claimed for a phone covered under a different policy also underwritten by AGI 
which was provided for him through a different bank. For that claim, AGI said hed sent the 
wrong phone - a much lower specification - in return for his replacement phone. When AGI 
asked for the correct phone, Mr F denied sending an incorrect phone.
So, when Mr F made this claim, AGI refused to handle it until he returned the phone from his 
other claim.
Mr F complained to AGI. He said hed returned the phone and, anyway, AGI should be 
handling his current claim. AGI issued a final response to say it would only consider his 
claim when he returned the phone. So, Mr F brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said AGI hadnt declined the claim under any of 
the terms and conditions of Mr Fs current policy. To put matters right, our investigator said 
AGI should consider the claim in line with the policy.
AGI didnt agree because it said it would only consider the claim once Mr F returned its 
property.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
The issue here is that AGI wont consider Mr Fs claim until a dispute about a claim he made 
under a different policy is resolved.
My role is to decide whether AGI handled this claim fairly and reasonably, and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. But, looking at its response to Mr Fs claim, I cant see that 
AGI has considered the policy. Instead it has refused to consider it based on an unresolved 
dispute about another claim on another policy.
While I understand why AGI wants to get both matters resolved, it must consider Mr Fs 
current claim under his current policy.
Therefore, Im satisfied that AGI needs to put matters right by considering Mr Fs claim in line 
with the policy terms and conditions.
To be clear, Im not asking AGI to settle the claim. Once AGI has considered the claim in line 
with the policy, it should either settle the claim or decline it, explaining why the policy allows 
it to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Assurant 
General Insurance Limited must:
consider Mr Fs claim for his lost mobile phone under the terms and conditions of his 
policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman