DRN-3035983
The complaint
Mr N says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. He says that Morses should have 
made better checks before lending. If it had done this Mr N says it wouldnt have lent to 
him.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. He thought Morses 
shouldnt have approved loans 4 to 6. Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. The 
complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ns complaint should be upheld in part, 
although for a different reason to what the adjudicator had said. I thought Morses should pay 
compensation in respect of loan 6 only. A copy of the background to the complaint and my 
provisional findings are below in italics and form part of this final decision. 
This complaint is about six home collected loans Morses provided to Mr N between July 
2013 and March 20018. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending 
is in the table below. The loans were paid weekly and there was a significant break in 
the lending between loans 2 and 3. So there were two distinct periods of lending.
Loan Date Taken Amount InstalmentsDate 
Repaid
1 30/07/2013 £500 50 19/05/2014
2 19/11/2013 £600 50 05/06/2014
3 04/12/2015 £400 33 29/09/2016
4 24/11/2016 £500 33 31/07/2017
5 07/08/2017 £400 33 08/03/2018
6 08/03/2018 £600 33 19/10/2018
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He said that Morses wasnt lending irresponsibly 
when it approved loans 1 to 3. But he said the repayments for loans 4 and 5 were too high a 
proportion of Mr Ns income. And the lending pattern itself showed a reliance on this type of 
credit at loan 6.
Morses agreed to pay compensation in respect of loan 6. But it didnt understand why the 
repayment for loans 4 and 5 represented too high a proportion of Mr Ns income. As no 
agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr N could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Mr N didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion that Morses was acting correctly when it 
approved loans 1 to 3. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about 
these loans. And for the avoidance of doubt, I dont disagree with what the adjudicator said about 
this lending, and for the same reasons. I wont look at these loans in detail as part of this 
decision.
And Morses now accepts that it shouldnt have approved loan 6. Again, I dont disagree with the 
compensation the adjudicator thought was reasonable for this loan, and for the same reasons. 
So, I also wont look at this loan in detail as part of this decision. But I have included the 
compensation for this loan in my putting things right section below.
My decision will instead focus on whether Morses should also pay compensation for loans 4 
and 5.
Our adjudicator thought the loan repayments were too great a proportion of Mr Ns declared 
income. In some ways I can see why he said this. Mr N was paying £25 a week against a 
recorded income of £245 for loan 4. This is a fairly high proportion of what could reasonably be 
described as a modest income. And Mr N would need to repay this for a reasonable length of 
time.
That said, Mr Ns expenditure was recorded as being just over £50 a week. Even when 
considering this as being very low and I think its likely he did have some spare money. There 
had been no obvious repayment problems at this point and the lending pattern itself wasnt 
problematic in the way it did became later. So, I dont think the repayments for loan 4 were too 
high.And there was a short break before loan 5, Mr Ns income increased (as did his expenditure 
slightly), but the loan repayments were smaller. So, I also dont think that the repayments to 
loan 5 wouldve been likely to cause Mr N problems.
Looking at the point of sale information, I think it would have been reasonable for Morses to 
have assumed these loans were affordable for Mr N. And I havent seen any other information 
that highlights anything that wouldve led to Morses thinking that Mr N had any significant 
financial problems. Or that he couldnt afford the repayments.
So, overall, having considered all of the information Ive been provided I dont think Morses 
was wrong to have approved loans 4 and 5. Im not intending to uphold Mr Ns complaint about 
them.
Morses, and Mr N (via his representative), received my provisional decision. No one had 
anything to add after theyd seen it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses and Mr N didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, I 
dont feel the need to elaborate on my findings above expect to say I think Morses was 
wrong to have provided Mr Ns final loan. Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in 
order to put things right. Morses has already agreed to the following compensation.
  
Putting things right
Morses shouldnt have given Mr N loan 6. 
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr N towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr N 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr N originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr N the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Ns borrowing for loan 6 means any information recorded about it 
is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Mr Ns credit file. If Morses has sold 
any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ns complaint.Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman