DRN-1680610
 
The complaint
Mr E complains that Instant Cash Loans (ICL) trading as TGS Pawnbrokers damaged and 
lost links for a watch he pawned. He would like the links returned . Or ICL to pay for the cost 
of replacing them
What happened
Mr E says on 10 October 2018 he pawned a watch with ICL for £750 with a fixed sum loan 
agreement lasting seven months
Mr E says he handed the watch over in its box which he says contained four additional links 
for the watch.
When Mr E went to redeem the watch, he  says he found it had been kept in a plastic bag 
not in its box. The watch and box were damaged and the links missing. He says the 
manager sent the watch to be repaired, offered a replacement box but it wasnt the one the 
watch came in and couldnt source additional links.
Mr E says he isnt happy the links couldnt be found. And although ICL offered a replacement 
box it wasnt identical to the one the watch came in.
ICL said it felt it had acted fairly . There was no record the links were part of the pawned item 
or that they were in the box. Or of the condition of the box when Mr E handed it over. It said 
it offered a replacement box and attempted to find replacement links as a gesture of goodwill 
as Mr E was a long-standing customer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He found there was no evidence that the links 
were in the box when Mr E handed it over nor was there any evidence to show the state of 
the box when Mr E handed it over. He felt ICL had acted fairly in repairing the watch at no 
cost to Mr E, trying to source additional links and offering a replacement box. It also froze the 
interest on Mr Es account during this time and waived £110 of interest.
ICL accepted this view but Mr E didnt. He wasnt happy with the time taken to reach a 
decision or with the decision itself. He didnt feel his complaint had been taken seriously and 
asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He felt the fact the watch had been damaged showed 
it hadnt been looked after.
Our investigator considered these comments but didnt change his view. He didnt feel the 
fact the watch had to be repaired  meant the links had to have been lost at the same time. 
He noted the high value Mr E put on the additional links but said this wasnt noted on the 
credit agreement. Ultimately, he had no evidence the links were with the watch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E feels strongly about this, so I appreciate he is going to be disappointed as Ive reached 
the same conclusion as our investigator.
I have looked at the agreement Mr E signed with ICL.it was a fixed sum loan agreement for 
the sum of £750 taken out in October 2018. The watch is noted as security and the details 
noted for the watch include the name and weight. There is no mention of additional links.
Mr E has given us some a screen shot to show the cost of the watch bracelet is £870. But 
that information doesnt show the cost of individual extra links. 
Unfortunately, there is no evidence to show the links were included in the box when Mr E 
pawned it. I am surprised that if the links were expensive that Mr E didnt ensure these were 
noted on the loan agreement. With out any evidence to show the links were in the box  I 
cant reasonably ask ICL to pay for the additional links as Mr E would like.
In terms of the state of the box Mr E has sent us a photo of the box from. In this its clear  
that the box is damaged. But  I have no evidence to show what condition the box was in 
when Mr E handed it over.
There is however no dispute that Mr Es watch was damaged  ICL arranged for it to be 
repaired at no cost to Mr E which I think was the right thing to do . I can understand Mr E 
feeling this shows ICL  didnt look after the watch. But that doesnt necessarily mean that the 
business lost the links  or damaged the box.
The business has explained that as Mr E was a long-standing customer even though it didnt 
feel it had done anything wrong with regard to the links or box it tried to help as a gesture of 
goodwill. It tried to find additional links but was unable to do so. It also offered an alternative 
box, but this wasnt acceptable to Mr E as it wasnt the original box the watch came in. 
However, ICL also froze interest on Mr Es account and waived £110 of interest from Mr Es 
agreement. I do think Mr E deserved some compensation for the fact that the watch was 
damaged whilst in ICLs possession. But any award I would have made would have been in 
line with the £110 that ICL waived. I dont feel I have seen any other information that makes 
me feel that ICL should make any further payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman