DRN-3224109
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim made under
their travel insurance policy, in full. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had the benefit of a travel insurance policy underwritten by UKI (the policy)
connected to a building society account.
Along with their two children, Mr and Mrs P were due to travel to some isles in Scotland
towards the end of June 2020 and stay at various locations. As such, theyd booked
accommodation with different providers. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the Government
restrictions in place at the time, limiting how far someone was able to travel, Mr and Mrs Ps
trip was cancelled.
They made a claim on the policy to be reimbursed for costs associated with their trip that
they couldnt receive cash refunds for. That included the up-front costs theyd paid two
accommodation providers who hadnt offered cash refunds because the amounts Mr and
Mrs P had paid to them were non-refundable.
One provider (provider 1) - who Mr and Mrs P had booked to stay with for two nights starting
5 July 2020 - offered to move Mr and Mrs Ps booking to its 2021 season. Whereas the other
provider (provider 2)  who Mr and Mrs P had booked to stay with for one day on 7 July
2020 - offered to move their booking unto the end of 2022.
UKI concluded that the offer to move these two bookings into 2021 and 2022 respectively
meant that the costs Mr and Mrs P paid to the two accommodation providers werent
irrecoverable. And relying on the policy terms, it declined to cover these costs. However, it
did agree to cover other parts of the claim made.
Mr and Mrs P dont think thats fair. Theyve said there hasnt been an opportunity for them to
use the accommodation and as such it was unreasonable for UKI to treat these costs as
having been recoverable. Theyre also unhappy that they were asked by UKI to obtain a
letter from Mrs Ps employer reflecting that  as a key worker  she could be asked to forfeit
or cut short any annual leave she had booked to help on the frontline once more due to the
ongoing pandemic. And further, once they did provide this letter, UKI still decided not to
cover the sums theyd paid to the two accommodation providers  effectively reneging on its
position that if Mrs P was able to get a letter from her employer, UKI would cover these
particular losses.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. They disagreed, so their
complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 December 2021, explaining why I was intending to 
partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and direct UKI to put things right by paying Mr and 
Mrs P a further £200 as part of their claim (subject to the financial limits of the policy, any 
additional applicable excess and proof of payment to provider 1, if required). 
An extract of my provisional decision is set out below:
UKI has an obligation to treat customers fairly. It should also handle claims fairly and
promptly and it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, the policy does provide cover for a trip being
cancelled and Im satisfied that the holiday Mr and Mrs P booked for June/July 2020 is a trip
as defined by the policy.
UKI has declined the claim on the basis that providers 1 and 2 had offered to move their
bookings into 2021 and 2022.
And when doing so, it has sought to rely on clause 12 of the cancellation section of the
policy (under the heading: you are not covered for). This clause says UKI wont pay for
(amongst other things) recoverable costs (page 20). Ill refer to this as clause 12.
Recoverable costs are defined on page 18 of the policy as:
any cost that you can recover from elsewhere
At the time UKI made this decision, I think that was fair and reasonable because Mr and Mrs
P had over one year to rebook and stay at providers 1 accommodation and over two years
to rebook and stay with provider 2.
However, given the various restrictions that were in place in Scotland because of Covid-19
long into 2021, I accept what Mr and Mrs P say about them being unable to rebook their trip
to the isles they had initially planned to travel to in June 2020.
Given the age of their children, I accept that they had a limited window of around six weeks
to rebook the accommodation to coincide with the school summer holidays  which started
around the end of June 2021 in the country they resided. And that by the time restrictions
had started to be eased in Scotland, towards late April 2021, Im persuaded by what they
say about the accommodation already having been booked up for the school summer
holidays between the end of June and mid-August 2021. Im also persuaded by what they
say about there still being a reduced ferry service between the isles around that time and
that availability was very limited as places had been pre-booked.
At the request of our Service, Mr P emailed provider 1 on 15 November 2021 to see whether
it would extend the offer to rebook the accommodation to the end of 2022. He said he didnt
receive a reply. A second email was sent dated 26 November 2021 chasing for a response.
Again, Mr P says provider 1 didnt reply. And Ive got no reason to doubt what Mr P says
about that.
Im conscious that there are only a few weeks remaining of 2021 and although school
holidays fall within that period, the type of holiday Mr and Mrs P planned with their children in
June 2020 wasnt particularly suited to winter conditions. So, in the circumstances of this
particular case, I think it would now be fair and reasonable for UKI to reimburse Mr and Mrs
P for the amount they paid to provider 1 in the sum of £200, subject to certain terms of the
policy.
However, Im satisfied that its still fair and reasonable for UKI to rely upon clause 12 todecline Mr and Mrs Ps claim for the amount they pre-paid to provider 2 for accommodation.
Provider 2 offered Mr and Mrs P to rebook the accommodation with it until 2022. So, they
still have another year to take advantage of that offer. As such, Im persuaded that UKI has
acted fairly and reasonably by concluding this was a recoverable loss and declining this
aspect of the claim.
When making this provisional finding, I note that Mr and Mrs P say that their intended stay at
providers 2 accommodation formed part of a longer trip, travelling around different isles. And
they wouldnt make the journey to providers 2 accommodation to stay for one night before
returning home. I appreciate the points they make. However, the terms of the voucher arent
restrictive, and Mr and Mrs P arent prevented from using the voucher, should they wish  for
example - to take a similar trip to the one they planned in June/July 2020, in 2022.
The letter from Mrs Ps employer
Mr and Mrs P say that the offers to rebook were restrictive for them because as a front-line
worker, Mrs P was on stand-by as a result of Covid-19 pandemic and because of what was
happening in the UK at the time, she could be asked to cancel any pre-booked annual leave
by her employer.
In response to being told this, Mr and Mrs P say UKI asked Mrs P to obtain a letter from her
employer confirming its position about staff taking annual leave during the pandemic and any
pre-booked leave could be withdrawn at any time. They say that they were given an
assurance in a call with UKIs representative that UKI and if Mrs Ps employer was able to
confirm this in writing, it would make an exception and pay the claim in full. Mr and Mrs P
also say that UKI was making exceptions for certain keyworkers and would be meeting their
claims.
If such an assurance had been given, I might be persuaded that it would be fair and
reasonable for UKI to pay the remainder of the claim. However, Ive listened to a call
recording of that conversation towards the end of June 2020 and I dont agree that Mr Ps
recollection of the call is entirely correct. Whilst I can completely understand that he may
have taken what was said as an indication that the claim would be met upon receipt of this
letter, UKIs representative was simply explaining that if Mrs P was able to get a letter from
her employer, they would consider this when reviewing the claim. However, Mr P was told no
guarantees could be made about whether the amounts paid to providers 1 and 2 would be
covered under the policy.
After receiving and considering the letter from Mrs Ps employer dated 7 July 2020, UKI
didnt cover the sums paid to providers 1 and 2. The offers made by providers 1 and 2 to
rebook accommodation extended into 2021 and 2022 respectively, and theres nothing to
suggest that Mrs P would be prevented from taking annual leave  or have her leave
cancelled at short notice  for the entirety of that period. So, I dont think UKI unreasonably
declined to cover those aspects of the claim  even in light of the contents of the letter.
Mr P says he had another conversation with UKIs representative in early August 2020
where a similar assurance had been given. Again, Ive listened to that conversation, and Im
satisfied that it wasnt. Mr P was told that a payment had been processed in respect of the
aspects of the claim that had been accepted. Mr P asked about the remainder of the claim
and, in particular, whether it was going to be paid as he had been told it would be upon
receipt of a letter from Mrs Ps employer. UKIs representative said that the call recording
would be reviewed to see if it supported the claim and a final decision would then be made.
Response to my provisional decisionMr and Mrs P accepted my provisional findings.
UKI also said, on this occasion, it agreed to settle the claim for Mr and Mrs Ps pre-paid 
costs to provider 1. It said it had spoken with the accommodation provider whod confirmed 
that the voucher hadnt been used and will not be extended past the end of 2021. So, it was 
now an irrecoverable loss. 
However, UKI has said it hadnt been possible to settle this aspect of the claim previously as 
 until the voucher expired  there hadnt been a financial loss. And it doesnt require any 
further information/documents prior to settling the costs associated to provider 1.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs P accept my provisional findings - and given UKI has agreed the treat the 
pre-paid costs to provider 1 as an irrecoverable loss  I dont see any reason to depart from 
my provisional findings.
So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision  an extract of which appears above  
I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.  
Putting things right
I direct UKI to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs P a further £200 as part of their
claim, subject to the financial limits of the policy and any additional applicable excess.
 
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to put
things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman