DRN-3128727
The complaint
Ms M complains esure Insurance Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels, havent handled her 
claim under her motor insurance policy fairly.
What happened
Ms Ms car was unfortunately stolen. She reported this on 12 May 2021. Her car was taken 
to esures approved repairer, and she was given a replacement car on 15 May 2021. Ms M 
is unhappy that repairs to her car hadnt been carried out    and when trying to get updates, 
either from esure or their approved repairer, shes not been able to.
In esures response of 25 June 2021 they said some of the delays are outside of their control 
 such as the manufacturers garage sourcing replacement parts. But theyd given feedback 
to their repairer, and in total paid £150 compensation for the shortfalls in their service. They 
felt this was a fair apology.
Unhappy with this Ms M asked us to look into things  telling our Investigator that shed 
incurred four lots of fees from going through a tunnel of £35 each (£140 total) which shed 
have disputed if she were in her own car. Ms M was also concerned she had to get a 
replacement car, rather than the garage providing a hire car. 
During the conversation in July 2021, Ms M said she had an itemised phone bill showing all 
the times shed tried to speak to esure or their approved repairer  in support of her 
complaint that £150 compensation wasnt enough.
Our Investigator asked Ms M for the calls on several occasions through August, September 
and October to show how many times shed tried to speak to esure or their approved 
repairer. Ms M did explain her phone provider couldnt provide an itemised bill, so she did a 
Subject Access Request, where she received the calls on a CD. As Ms hadnt provided the 
CD after several extensions, our Investigator went ahead and assessed the case  finding 
that the £150 compensation for esures errors was fair up to 25 June 2021. Our Investigator 
explained any issues that occurred after this date would need to be a new complaint.
Following this Ms M didnt agree the compensation was fair  and said shed sent the CD to 
us on 8 October. As at the date of this decision, the CD hasnt been received and Ms M has 
been reminded of this on a further two occasions. So, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Repair timeline
From the information Ive seen, Ms Ms claim was registered on 12 May, and her car wasnt 
with esures approved repairers until 20 May. I do think eight days is quite a long time to 
collect a car.
On 4 June, Ms M has asked for an update as shed heard nothing  and I can see in 
between time esure had been trying to speak to their approved repairer as well. On this day, 
they managed to get in touch with them  and the approved repairer said theyd been asked 
to deal with the claim on a without prejudice basis. So, having assessed Ms Ms car shortly 
after itd arrived, theyd put it through on the system, but couldnt progress it to the repair 
stage until esure gave them the go ahead. The approved repairer told esure theyd arranged 
for the manufacturer to collect the car for repairs on 3 June, but the car was still in their 
garage on 4 June. The reason the manufacturers garage needed to assess the car is 
because its esures process to do this in a theft claim.
The repairs were subsequently authorised on 15 June 2021. The following day, esure asked 
their approved repairer what was happening with the car  and was told it was with the 
manufacturers garage waiting on replacement parts. 
At the time of making the complaint, Ms Ms car hadnt been repaired  and esure had 
offered £150 for the communication and delays.
In total, it seems there was around a four-week delay from the claim being raised, to the 
repairs ultimately being approved. That is within esures control, and I think they or their 
approved repairer could have done more here. 
I cant say esure are responsible for any manufacturer delays in getting replacement parts  
as these can often take weeks. The repairs were approved on 16 June, and I can only 
consider until 25 June in this complaint.
Ive noted Ms Ms argument about having to pay on the finance for her car  but I wont be 
asking esure to meet this cost. Thats a separate contract Ms M entered into in order to have 
a car. And, during this time, esure have (bar three days, which I will address in the next 
section) made sure Ms M has access to a car. So, I dont think itd be reasonable to expect 
them to pay for this as well as a hire car. 
Hire car
Ms M was also unhappy she wasnt given a courtesy car by the garage. As Ive outlined 
above, I dont think theyve handled things particularly well. But, in situations where mistakes 
have happened, such as the approved repairer not providing a courtesy car when they 
should have, I need to consider the impact on the individual.
Here, Ms M registered her claim on 12 May and she was given the hire car on 15 May.
Although I can agree it was frustrating Ms M was without a car for three days, I dont think 
this was an unreasonable time for esure to have arranged a hire car. So, I wont be 
upholding this element of Ms Ms complaint.
Other issues
Ms M has mentioned shes had to pay £140 worth of fees which shed have disputed if she 
were in her own car. Shes provided no further detail regarding this.Because shes provided no further detail regarding this, its unclear to me why itd be 
relevant which car shes driving would mean she might have a successful appeal against 
these charges. Ultimately though, I think its fair to say its her responsibility to ensure shes 
compliant with any tolls  so, if shes unsuccessful in her appeals, then I cant reasonably 
say this is the responsibility of esure. This is backed up by esures policy terms, which say 
You will be responsible fortoll charges incurred.
To be fair to Ms M I also wanted to make it clear I thought about what the CD might show  
given its not yet been received. Ms M has explained the reason this is relevant is because it 
shows the number of calls shes made to get updates. Im not going to dispute Ms M has had 
to call on numerous occasions to try and find out whats going on  as thats supported by 
the notes esure have provided. So, even in the absence of the CD showing the calls, I agree 
Ms M has been inconvenienced by this.
Overall
Taking everything into account, I think esure and their approved repairers communication 
has been poor and has caused Ms M frustration at not knowing whats going on. I also think 
esure have caused around four weeks worth of delays. Both of these are worthy of 
compensation.
Its inevitable some inconvenience will be caused as a result of having to make a claim, and 
that isnt esures fault, but overall, I think £150 compensation is a fair amount  and I 
understand this has already been paid to Ms M. As I think the amount esure has already 
paid is fair, Im not going to ask it to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman