DRN-3512956
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that it didnt receive an incentive payment after it switched 
its account to a different financial business.
What happened
S was eligible for the Business Banking Switch scheme. This was an incentive to 
encourage competition. It meant that subject to terms and conditions if it switched its 
account at NatWest to one of a number of other financial businesses it would receive a 
payment.
S complains that although it made an application to switch its account to another business it 
didnt receive the incentive payment of £4,000.
NatWest said it hadnt made a mistake. The terms of the scheme were that the switch and 
closure of the account had to happen by 30 June 2021. The switch day for S was 25 March 
2021. But a pending payment to a merchant for £275 debited its account causing an 
overdraft. This had been made using S debit card. Although S said it had experienced 
difficulties when trying to repay this in April 2021 NatWest wasnt made aware of this. And 
the account couldnt be closed. The debit balance was cleared on 12 July 2021, but this was 
too late for the incentive payment.
Our investigator recommended that NatWest pay S £250 in compensation and it agreed to 
do so. He said he thought that S was reasonably aware that there was an outstanding 
balance on the account and that this would need to be cleared by 30 June 2021. S didnt do 
so. There had been a sufficient period for S to take action to avoid the loss of the incentive 
payment. He recognised that the date that the pending payment was applied wasnt within S 
control. But also, this wasnt something NatWest could do anything about either. However, it 
did seem that its processes werent able to deal with this novel situation and this was a flaw 
that had inconvenienced S. He said that the £4,000 loss was too remote to be fairly payable 
but that £250 reflected the inconvenience. 
S didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It said it didnt know that the balance 
outstanding would affect the incentive payment. A refund paid into the account was diverted 
automatically. And so, it didnt see why this debit hadnt been too.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Through our investigator I asked NatWest to clarify the position with the payment of £275. It 
stated that:
The issue was that the merchant didnt process the request straight away and it didnt 
show until later in the day of 25 March after the closure process started. When the 
purchase was made, contact was made to the bank to authorise the funds, but merchants 
can take up to 6 months to claim payment. The other pending payments were covered 
because they were claimed by the merchants immediately. This payment was not covered 
because the merchant didnt claim the payment until 25 March which is not a bank error.
I agree that this was unfortunate and that the timing of this payment wasnt within the 
control of S or NatWest. This meant that the account couldnt be closed. And the terms and 
conditions for receiving the payment were that the account had to be switched and closed 
by 30 June 2021. This was reasonably set out in the material relating to the switch offer.
I note from S complaint form that it accepts that it knew about the debit balance on the 
account and that the payment had been applied and not transferred to the new bank. And 
NatWest has confirmed that the director of S would have been able to see the account 
when using online banking and has shown that there were regular logins to online banking. 
NatWest points to an attempt at 18:27 on 25 March 2021 by S to transfer £200 into the 
account which wasnt successful. And it says it has no record of any further attempts or 
contact about this. 
S states that the only way to pay this was by telephone banking and that it didnt do this 
due to time constraints. It also thought the business account had been closed because it 
was shown alongside the directors personal accounts. And when it had contacted 
NatWest about not receiving the incentive payment in July 2021 it had been referred 
initially to its new bank and told that the account had been closed.
Im only looking at the complaint about what NatWest did here. Im afraid that I think that S 
was reasonably aware that the switch hadnt concluded. And that it had an outstanding 
debt to NatWest. In any event it had a reasonable period to deal with that before 30 June 
2021 and which would have mitigated what happened. And I accept too that this caused it 
inconvenience and I think that the recommended payment of £250 is appropriate. But Im 
afraid I dont conclude having balanced all the factors that it should receive the switching 
incentive. I know how disappointed the director of S will be about this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require National Westminster Bank 
Plc to pay S £250.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman