DRN-2140870
The complaint
V Ltd complains that Lloyds Bank PLC acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing with its 
mortgage application. It wants matters put right.
What happened
V Ltd applied to Lloyds for a mortgage. It said that Lloyds had sent confirmation that the 
purchase of the property involved could go ahead to the wrong email address. V Ltd added 
that it had to find funds elsewhere to complete the purchase by the deadline and the 
mortgage was provided later.
V Ltd complained to Lloyds. It said that it wouldnt refund the fees paid as V Ltd did continue 
with the mortgage and had had the benefit of the valuation and the mortgage arrangement 
fee as a result. Lloyds explained that it didnt know why the wrong email address had been 
used, and that V Ltd wanted to change the standard offer, which was why the application 
took more time (for example, to remove the additional security provisions). Lloyds confirmed 
that if V Ltd had wanted to change the amount borrowed, it wouldve delayed matters further. 
It offered £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the situation.
V Ltd complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. He 
found that Lloyds had initially required more security was given than discussed, and while it 
was withdrawn, this did cause delay. The investigator noted that Lloyds had accepted the 
wrong email address had been used to contact the solicitor, which meant the mortgage 
monies werent available until after the deadline passed to buy the property. V Ltd had used 
its own funds on 25 September 2018 and the mortgage money wasnt drawn down until 22 
October 2018; the investigator said that it was fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to pay 
interest on the £105,000 V Ltd applied to borrow to complete the transaction (as it was 
always going to use part of its own money). But he said the £200 compensation for trouble 
and upset was fair and reasonable.
V Ltd disagreed. It felt the time its director had spent sorting matters out, rather than running 
the business had been ignored, or that Lloyds had separately accepted its complaints 
handling hadnt been good enough. V Ltd said it should receive more compensation and a 
full refund of fees. Lloyds agreed with the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to focus on the core of this complaint, which is about the administration of the 
mortgage application and consequent delays. This is because V Ltd had the benefit of the 
mortgage and valuation fees by choosing to continue with the mortgage (for the full amount it 
applied for) after buying the property, so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for fees connected 
to the lending to be refunded. Such fees are required to get a mortgage. 
Also, complaints handling isnt a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of this service, and it 
doesnt affect what happened when the mortgage application was being progressed. Im not 
going to deal with the issue of complaints handling, but I will look at whether Lloyds has 
generally acted fairly and reasonably.
I understand that some of the emails from the time is not available. I note that the solicitors 
were initially contacted using a secure form of post used by businesses, which the Law 
Society still records as a correct address for the solicitor (but the address isnt shown on that 
solicitors letterhead used at the time). In any event, Lloyds has accepted an incorrect email 
address was used and it isnt clear who made the mistake.
Looking at the evidence available to me, I dont think the issue about the security to be given 
caused much delay, though it wasnt discussed or agreed in my view. What was much more 
critical was the solicitor not receiving the information he needed earlier. I can see V Ltd told 
Lloyds that the information hadnt been received; it was just resent to the address used 
before; I cant see any attempt was made to confirm the correct address. And to be fair, the 
solicitor seems to have turned matters around promptly, but Lloyds wasnt in a position to 
release the mortgage money until 1 October. It was V Ltd who then asked for a delay as it 
had bought the property and was considering changing the amount borrowed.
While Lloyds didnt give a guarantee to complete the transaction by a specific date, I bear in 
mind that this was a commercial loan and its more likely than not that the transaction 
wouldve completed in time if the error in using the wrong address hadnt happened (given 
the swift turnaround that followed). V Ltd was forced to use its own money to complete the 
transaction; it had to add an additional £105,000 from 25 September 2018 to 22 October 
2018. Lloyds has accepted the investigators view. I think that the evidence indicates 
sufficiently Lloyds was at fault and the fair and reasonable resolution is for payment of 8% 
simple interest a year from 25 September to 22 October 2018 to reflect the loss of use of this 
money by V Ltd. While V Ltd chose to delay the mortgage from 1 October onwards, I can 
appreciate that it needed to consider the next steps in the circumstances.
V Ltd is a limited company so it cant suffer trouble and upset; the directors arent the same 
legal person as the company and werent technically the customer. This service doesnt 
award compensation for time spent dealing with matters when more profitable activities 
couldve been undertaken; dealing with such matters is part of the role of a director. Im 
satisfied that £200 for inconvenience is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
8% simple interest on £105,000 between 25 September and 22 October 2018, which I 
anticipate is a sum in the region of £644.38, should be paid to reflect the loss of use of the 
money. If the £200 compensation has yet to be paid, this should also be paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC should pay V Ltd 
interest as outlined above and £200 compensation if unpaid. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V and V to accept or reject my decision before 12 
October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman