DRN-4322000
The complaint
Mr R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) mishandled his claim 
on a motorhome insurance policy. 
What happened
From 2013, Mr R had a motorhome insured on a policy with RSA.
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a motorhome first registered in late 
2014. Mr R put that motorhome on the policy.
The most recent policy renewal was for the year from October 2022.
In late October 2022, Mr R called for roadside assistance. He reported to RSA that a gust of 
wind had damaged the nearside door of the motorhome.
RSA investigated where Mr R had been keeping the motorhome. RSA sent an investigator to 
interview Mr R at home.
In early January 2023, RSA authorised repairs.
However, RSA cancelled the policy.
Mr R complained to RSA that it wasnt treating him fairly.
By a final response dated late May 2023, RSA turned down the complaint.
Mr R asked us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
RSA fairly and reasonably cancelled Mr Rs policy. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The vehicle was purchased primarily for occupation.
The house and the van are solely in the ownership of his wife.
The van was registered in his name by a salesman. 
DVLA issued a logbook in his name.
RSA was fully aware of no driveway.
The motorhome was not stored, it was occupied by him constantly in the back 
square. 
Fraudsters took a deposit for a loft conversion. His and his wifes lives are still in 
danger.
His wife was packing her van for a holiday. A female driver crashed into his wifes 
van. He was not in the van. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) obliges a 
consumer to take reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation when taking out an 
insurance policy. If a consumer makes a misrepresentation which is qualifying and the 
insurer wouldnt otherwise have offered cover, then CIDRA gives the insurer certain 
remedies. They include treating the policy as void and declining any claim. 
The policy schedule from 2013 recorded that the motorhome was usually kept on Mr Rs 
driveway at home. 
I accept Mr Rs statement that 2014 motorhome was his wifes. However, he was the 
policyholder and registered keeper, so he made the claim and the complaint.
RSAs policy terms said that the policyholder must tell RSA of any change of the place 
where he stores the motorhome when not in use. Failure to do this may result in the policy 
being cancelled. 
The policy schedule from 2022 recorded that the motorhome was usually kept on Mr Rs 
driveway at home. So I dont accept that RSA knew otherwise.
Another insurer, rather than RSA, was responsible for roadside assistance. So I dont hold 
RSA responsible for that or for the temporary repair.
After Mr R made a claim to RSA, its investigator found that Mr R couldnt park the 
motorhome on a driveway at home. So RSA cancelled the policy.
RSAs final response included the following:
we were within our rights to void your policy and refuse to deal with your claim. 
However, our underwriters took a fair approach and confirmed we would deal with 
your claim but had to cancel your policy.
I accept RSAs statement that it wouldnt have covered coach-built motorhomes stored on 
the road. Im satisfied that RSA had good reason to cancel the policy and I dont find that 
was unfair or unreasonable.
Mr R has said that he couldnt attend his brothers funeral. That wouldve involved a very 
long journey. And Mr R has referred to a train strike. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
hold RSA responsible for Mr R not being able to travel for the funeral.
As regards Mr Rs report of accident damage involving a female driver, I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr R made a claim or a complaint to RSA. So I cant comment on that.
Overall, I dont consider that RSA treated Mr R unfairly. So I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct RSA to do any more in response to this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman