DRN-3031328
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr Os complaint.      
summary and background to complaint
Mr O said Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) with a 
personal loan in 2006.
Bank of Scotland didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - 
because it said Mr O had referred the complaint to us too late.   
But Bank of Scotland did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of Mr Os PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr O about the high level 
of commission and profit share hed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Os complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Bank of Scotlands payment was a fair way 
to resolve the complaint
Mr Os representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Bank of Scotland hasnt agreed.  
Mr Os complaint was made in October 2018. This is more than six years after Bank of 
Scotland sold the policy to him  in 2006  which is the event hes complaining about here. 
So I need to think about whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mr O 
should reasonably have been aware he had cause to complain. 
Bank of Scotland says it sent Mr O a letter in September 2014 which alerted him to the 
possibility something might have gone wrong with his policy sale. Given what Mr O is 
complaining about, I think he should reasonably have been aware he had reason to 
complain when he got this letter. I say this because the bulk of Mr Os complaint is that he 
felt he had enough sick pay and savings through his employer so didnt have a need for the 
policy. The letter explains that the advisor should have discussed the suitability of the 
product with Mr O,  as well as any other appropriate means by which you could protect the 
payments of your loan e.g. existing cover, employee benefits, savings, which may have 
affected the suitability of the product. So I think this should have reasonably made Mr O 
aware that he had a cause to complain at that time. 
Three years from the letter is September 2017, this means Mr O needed to make his 
complaint about the policy sale by September 2017. As he didnt complain until October 
2018, his complaint is out of time under the rules I have to apply. 
I appreciate Mr O has said he is confused as to why the time limit applies when it should 
have been covered by the general blanket time limit issues nationally. Its correct that there 
was a national deadline that was set for all PPI complaints to be made by, but this is 
separate to the Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2) mentioned previously. Either can apply, 
and as Ive set out, unfortunately this complaint hasnt been made in time under the Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2).  
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances.
But, other than what Ive looked at above, Mr O hasnt given any reasons for the delay. So 
Im sorry that were unable to help Mr O with his complaint about how this policy was sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Bank of Scotland should have disclosed the commission it 
received and that Bank of Scotlands offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate 
for the unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Bank of Scotland didnt tell Mr O about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Bank of Scotland and Mr O was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Bank of Scotland didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case. 
I dont think Bank of Scotland acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr O because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipredress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Os representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr O should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Bank of Scotland failed to tell Mr O about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr O wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr O in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Bank of Scotland not 
disclosing the high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Os representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Bank of Scotlands failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
-I think it was fair for Bank of Scotland to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Mr O paid for his PPI policy - I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that Bank of Scotlands payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As Bank of Scotland has already paid Mr O compensation on this basis, I dont consider it 
should do anything further. 
my decision
Im unable to consider Mr Os complaint about how his policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland Plc should pay Mr O an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As Bank of 
Scotland Plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it should do 
anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision about the commission aspect of the complaint before 28 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman