DRN-3291763
The complaint
Mr W, a director of H  a limited company, is unhappy with his merchant services provider
Alma Attic Limited, trading as Glorydale Merchant Services (Glorydale).
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both H and Glorydale. I wont repeat in
great detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving
the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
In 2019 H took out a merchant services agreement with Glorydale. H says they were still
setting up their business, so rather than paying a monthly fee for their merchant services,
they opted to pay a one-off fee of £118.80. Glorydale say theyve got no record of receiving
that fee.
In late December 2019 H processed seven transactions totalling £2,642.25. Glorydale say
given that H had told them previously that the largest transaction would be around £1000
and six of these transactions were from the same card, their system flagged them as
potentially suspicious. Glorydale say as the funds had already been credited to Hs account,
they reserved the right under this agreement to withhold future amounts up to the value of
£2,642.25 whilst their investigation was ongoing. 
Glorydale say the next transaction H processed was a few months later, for £100 and they 
withheld it. H was unhappy with the service provided and complained to Glorydale. They 
didnt uphold the complaint and H referred it to our service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered the evidence and upheld the complaint. H partially accepted the
recommendations, but Glorydale didnt respond. The complaint was referred to me
for a decision. Both parties were sent a copy of my provisional, intended findings on 21 
February 2022. In that provisional decision I explained why I was intending to uphold this 
complaint and both parties were given an opportunity to respond with any additional 
comments or evidence. H responded to say they accepted the decision, Glorydale didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having again considered the evidence and response to my provisional decision, I see no fair 
or reasonable reason to deviate from my intended findings and I uphold this complaint. As 
my provisional findings form part of this - my final decision, Ive included a copy below for 
reference.
Copy of provisional findings:
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Glorydale has not engaged effectively with our Service during the course of our investigation
into this complaint. Our investigator made numerous information requests for Glorydale to
send important information, yet each time an excuse was provided for not being able to meet
the deadline. Despite fair time extensions being granted, the information or responses
werent received. This is very disappointing.
This means that Ive had to rely on the available evidence when coming to my decision. That
is - the information available to me now after both parties were given a fair opportunity to
provide their side of the story and any supporting evidence they wished to rely on to support
their position. The relevant DISP rules for the approach Im taking here are DISP 1.4.4 and
DISP 3.5.14:
Co-operating with the Financial Ombudsman Service
Where a complaint against a respondent is referred to the Financial Ombudsman
Service, the respondent must cooperate fully with the Financial Ombudsman
Service and comply promptly with any settlements or awards made by it.
And:
 If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:
(1) proceed with consideration of the complaint; and
(2) include provision for any material distress or material inconvenience caused by
that failure in any award which he decides to make.
Ive carefully considered the evidence in this complaint and currently intend to uphold 
it.
The monthly cost of the agreement
H has said that due to their business being in the early stages of being set up and not having
the intention to fully trade for some time, they opted to pay a one-off fee of £118.80 rather
than opting to pay monthly. Glorydale have said the merchant services agreement was taken
out in November 2019 and scheduled to run for a 12-month minimum period.
A number of transactions were flagged as potentially suspicious by Glorydale and their
processing bank in December 2019. These transactions totalled around £2,600 and were
significantly outside of Hs expected transaction value. Glorydale say their processing bank
put a hold on the approximate value of the transactions to potentially mitigate any future
chargebacks. This isnt uncommon in merchant service related transactions. Glorydale in
turn have said that they had the right to put a hold on future transactions processed by H.
The next transaction was for £100 in March 2020.
The transactions that Glorydale flagged as potentially suspicious didnt occur until  
28 December 2019 and the next transaction was three months later in March 2020. This is
significant in my opinion as it supports what H has said about their business being in the
early stages of being set up. In this scenario I can understand why H would prefer the
certainty of knowing how much they needed to initially outlay and budget for.
Glorydale have said they have no record of receiving a payment of £118.80, but in the
absence of any other supporting evidence and for the reasons outlined, I find it more likely
than not H did opt to pay a one-off upfront cost rather than paying monthly.But, as already explained by our investigator, although H wants this fee refunded, that
wouldnt be fair or reasonable as theyve had a service available to use during the time
period of this agreement. For business reasons they werent in a position to use that service
all of the time and after the issue of the dispute about the £100 transaction in March 2020
they chose not to use Glorydales services.
Due to the uncertainty and lack of communication with our Service on this complaint, its not
entirely clear if Glorydale has charged H a minimum fee per month. But Im satisfied
Glorydale has had a fair opportunity to respond to this point before our service formally
investigates it.
Ive also noted that Glorydale told our service in August 2020:
the MMSC fee was not a major issue as we could have dealt with it
by exercising our discretion by been able to waive it. This issue could
have been resolved swiftly without any issues arising
For completeness - as this issue may be outstanding, Ill address it in my provisional
decision. 
Glorydale, in an email to our service dated 28 August 2020, said:
Once a card terminal provided and regardless the rental is paid by the merchant or
not, there is an industry standard position where a merchant is given the Processing
Platform. In order for processing platform to be provided, generally speaking, the
industry standard is that a merchant would be levied with the charge under the name
of MMSC. This fee would be to cover the cost of keeping a sim card active in the
terminal, KYC, KYB, fraud detecting software providers and providing support
whenever needed by the merchant etc.
Glorydale suggested that H owed this minimum monthly service charge (MMSC) fee for the
period December 2019 - July 2020 and it totalled £160. Ive carefully considered the
unsigned and undated copy of the merchant services agreement provided by Glorydale. At
no point in it does it refer to the MMSC. Instead, Ive seen it refers to transaction fees as a
percentage as well as pounds and pence. Ive also considered the terms and conditions for
this agreement. Term 6.1 states:
In return for us providing you with the Services, You shall pay to us the Fees
and all other sums payable by You to Us in accordance with the provisions
of the Contract including MMF and MMSC.
Given what Ive already found about Hs likely intention to not process transactions for some
time initially and pay an upfront cost and as Ive seen no strong or persuasive supporting
evidence from Glorydale that the MMSC was discussed or highlighted at the point of sale,
Ive concluded that its more likely than not the MMSC wasnt brought to Hs attention.
Ive then considered what H likely would done had it sufficiently been brought to their
attention. I find it more likely than not H wouldnt have gone ahead and taken out this
agreement as it didnt suit their business intentions and needs. I also conclude that it would
neither be fair or reasonable of Glorydale to charge H a minimum usage fee that hadnt
sufficiently been brought to Hs attention.
Glorydale cant fairly charge H the MMSC as it hasnt shown any evidence that it was
sufficiently brought to Hs attention at the point of sale. Ive acknowledged the terms make
reference to a MMSC - but not an actual amount. The agreement here was the keyinformation document H relied on when deciding if this merchant services agreement was
right for them.
The £100 transaction in March 2020 being held
If things had happened as they shouldve, Glorydale wouldve held the £100 transaction from
March until the chargeback period related to the December 2019 transactions elapsed. The
terms of the agreement allowed them to do so.
But based on limited responses from Glorydale it appears that Glorydale hasnt yet released
the £100 back to H.
Glorydale should now - if it hasnt already done so, refund H £100 plus 8% simple interest
per year from the date the £100 shouldve been released until the date payment is made.
Summary
Ive seen no strong or persuasive supporting evidence from Glorydale that the MMSC
was brought to Hs attention and I find it more likely than not H wouldnt have gone
ahead and taken out this agreement had it sufficiently been brought to their attention
 for the reasons Ive explained. Therefore it isnt fair or reasonable of Glorydale to
charge H £160.
Because of the specific circumstances of this case and because H has had the
benefit already of some services, I currently consider the fairest remedy here to be
that Glorydale should cancel any balance owed due to the MMSC that it intends to
charge H and ensure that if any adverse credit information has been reported its
amended.
If Glorydale had doubts or suspicions about the 7 transactions in December 2019 as
they were far outside the expected transaction value and 6/7 processed using the
one card in a short space of time, it wasnt unreasonable to put a hold on those funds
or future funds pending the typical 180 day charge back period  to offset against the
potential chargeback liability. However, once the chargeback period ended these
funds shouldve been released back to H...
Putting things right
Glorydale should now - if it hasnt already done so, refund H £100 plus 8% simple interest 
per year from the date the funds shouldve been paid back until the date payment is actually 
made.
Glorydale should also cancel any balance owed (due to the MMSC) that it intends to charge 
H and ensure that if any adverse credit information has been reported its amended.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I now direct Alma Attic Limited, trading as Glorydale Merchant 
Services (Glorydale) to follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things 
right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman