DRN-3850522
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) processed 
a refinancing agreement he took out with them.
What happened
In December 2017, Mr F acquired a used vehicle using a hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS. The agreement was taken over 48 months, with regular monthly repayments to be 
made and an optional final repayment, if Mr F wished to purchase the vehicle at the end of 
the agreement.
When Mr F reached the end of his agreement with BMWFS, he looked to take out another 
hire purchase agreement with them to refinance the optional final repayment due. In 
November 2021, Mr F signed a new hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. Mr F says at 
this point he updated the bank account he pays with to his personal one, as previously the 
lending was repaid from a third partys account.
In December 2021, Mr F contacted BMWFS as he received a message from them about the 
optional final repayment which was due on the December 2017 agreement. He says he was 
told by BMWFS at the time that everything was under control and that he could ignore all 
other emails he receives from them about it. So, he says he ignored all emails as instructed 
in the following months.
In late January 2022, BMWFS sent Mr F an email asking him to re-sign the refinancing 
documents he signed in November 2021, as they say they had an internal error. They also 
sent him an email as they tried to contact him about his agreement but was unsuccessful.
Once Mr F called them back, he says they told him the refinancing agreement hadnt been 
successful. He says BMWFS reported a late payment marker on to his account. Mr F says 
they later told him the agreement was unsuccessful because the card payment wasnt 
associated to him. He believes this was unfair and contradicted the email they sent him 
saying it was an internal error. Mr F says they only contacted him about the failed agreement 
around three months after he believed it was correctly taken out.
Mr F complained. BMWFS responded saying the issue with the new agreement being taken 
out was due to the fact the bank details being used to make the repayments werent 
associated with Mr F. BMWFS agreed to remove the adverse reporting on Mr Fs credit file. 
They went on to say that they understand the refinanced agreement has now gone through 
successfully and Mr Fs previous agreement has now been settled.
Mr F, unhappy with BMWFSs response, referred his complaint to our service. He says he 
would like compensation for the stress BMWFS has caused him, and for ruining the holiday 
he was on with his friends and family when they contacted him. He also says it made the 
process of looking for a new house more difficult.
Our investigator found that BMWFS didnt need to do anything further. In summary, he 
explained that BMWFS did enough to put things right in a fair and reasonable way, once 
they were aware that something went wrong with the finance agreement that was attempted 
to be set up. He explained that BMWFS agreed to remove the reporting of the late payment 
marker and the new agreement has now been successfully set up. So, Mr F has been put 
back into the position he would have been in if the error had not occurred.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators findings. He said, among other things, that BMW has 
constantly failed to inform him of the truth on multiple times. And so, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and I dont think BMWFS needs to do 
anything further. Ill explain why below.
Mr F complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Mr Fs complaint about BMWFS.
It isnt in dispute that something went wrong with the processing of Mr Fs refinancing 
agreement he signed in November 2021. I say this as BMWFS have acknowledged this. Its 
explained the reason for this was the payment details changing from a third party to Mr Fs. 
And its corrected Mr Fs credit file. So what I need to consider here is whether BMWFS has 
acted fairly and reasonably in the way they tried to put things right for Mr F. 
Mr F would like compensation for the inconvenience this situation has caused him. But I 
dont think it would be fair for BMWFS to pay Mr F compensation in this instance.
Considering things here, Mr F has been put back into the position he would have been in, if 
the mistake didnt occur in the first place. The refinance agreement has been signed and is 
in place. The adverse reporting on Mr Fs credit file has been removed. And Im not aware of 
any significant adverse financial impact this instance has had on Mr F. 
I accept it is unfortunate timing for BMWFS to contact Mr F during his holiday, and that 
BMWFS may have told Mr F to ignore any subsequent contact about his refinancing 
agreement. But they had attempted to contact Mr F on several occasions, and I think their 
communication was clear that they needed to speak to him.
Ive also thought about the fact Mr F said the late payment marker made it more difficult to 
look for a new house. But hes not provided any further information about this. And I havent 
seen any evidence such as mortgage applications or anything else from the time. So, I dont 
think BMWFS needs to take action on this point.
Mr F has explained that he remained unhappy as he was initially told by BMWFS that the 
issue with the refinancing agreement was an internal error, rather than one about the 
payment details used. While I accept it must have been frustrating for Mr F to hear from 
BMWFS conflicting information about why the agreement didnt go through, they have since 
explained the reason. I dont think their response here is unreasonable.
I want to reassure Mr F that Ive carefully considered everything hes said. But, while I 
acknowledge hes suffered some distress and inconvenience because of whats happened, BMWFS corrected the main issues here as it has corrected his credit file and the finance is 
now in place. I dont think it needs to pay Mr F further compensation under the 
circumstances.
In summary, I think BMWFS has done enough to put things right for Mr F and I dont think 
they need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman