DRN-3821789
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc caused him a financial loss when its electronic 
systems suffered an outage. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed with that view 
and the matter was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in this matter because although I didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld, I wanted to expand upon our investigators reasoning. I said: 
Mr M has a Santander current account. In May 2021, Santanders electronic 
systems suffered a major outage in which some of its customers were unable to 
access their accounts either online or by telephone for one day from mid-morning to 
late evening.
Mr M claims Santanders outage caused him a significant financial loss. He says that 
on the day of the outage, he intended to transfer £7,500 to a cryptocurrency 
exchange. He says he would then have bought a particular currency, which Ill call 
O, at $0.1224 at 11:39 and sold at $0.17646 at 23:09. Mr M says he could not 
access his Santander account when he wanted to transfer the funds to the 
cryptocurrency exchange. He believes Santanders outage cost him £3,307.50 in 
profit. Mr M considers Santander should pay him this sum to put things right.
My provisional view is that Im not persuaded I can fairly require it to do that though, 
for the following reasons:
I know Mr M said it was for Santander and this service to disprove his 
contention that he would have invested £7,500 in O. I disagree. In making 
this decision, I have to apply the balance of probabilities. That means it is for 
Mr M to show that he would have most likely bought and sold O at the prices 
and timeframe he claimed as set out above.
In calculating the alleged lost profit, Mr M has picked, within ordinary waking 
hours, the best buy and the best sell price on the day of the outage. From the 
information Mr M provided, I cant say its most likely that he planned to buy 
and sell as he says he would.
Mr M says he planned to buy £7,500 worth of O. I accept he had that money 
available to him. But looking at the evidence hes provided of his other 
trades, £7,500 would be much more than he usually spends on one currency 
in one transaction.
Mr M has shown he bought O prior to the outage ($113 on 5 April, $921 on 5 
April, $342 on 15 April, $1,499 on 13 May). As I said above, these 
transactions are worth much less than the £7,500 Mr M claims he was going 
to spend on the day of the outage. And, from what I can see, he didnt sell 
the O he already had on the day of the outage, which is what I would have 
expected if he planned to sell at the high price on the day of the outage.
Putting all of these things together, I cant say its most likely that Mr M would have 
bought and sold O at the prices he told us about but for Santanders outage.
That said, I accept it would have been frustrating for Mr M when he couldnt use his 
current account as and when he wanted to. I can see how it would have been 
inconvenient for him having to address the matter with Santander, and that it may 
well have been disappointing for Mr M not to receive the service he expected from 
Santander.
Santander has already paid £250 to Mr M to compensate him for its failures on the 
day of the outage. In my provisional view, £250 is a fair amount to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience Santanders service failings had on Mr M. I dont intend to require 
Santander to take any further action in this case.
Santander didnt provide any further evidence or comments for me to consider. Mr M 
responded to say he didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said Santander had 
admitted liability for the outage and as such, it was liable for his consequential loss claim. He 
said he had the means to undertake the transaction to buy O as he set out in his complaint. 
He said he had purchased more than £30,000 of cryptocurrency. He said that as a minimum, 
I should consider a prorated award and, in any event, the £250 did not reflect the amount of 
trouble hed been put to in pursuing his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the issues raised by the parties, in particular, Mr Ms response to my 
provisional decision, I am not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. Ill explain 
why. 
For the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Im still not persuaded its most 
likely Mr M would have done what he says he would. And I cant fairly make a pro rata award 
for the same reasons. Im not requiring Santander pay Mr M anything for his alleged financial 
loss.
Mr M asks for further compensation for the effort of appeals and production of the 
numerous email / reports and evidence submitted to date. Making a complaint - or any type 
of claim for that matter - does take some effort. But its for the complainant to decide whether 
to pursue one. When a complaint doesnt end in their favour that doesnt mean the 
respondent (which is Santander in this case) should compensate them for said effort. I dont  
require Santander to pay Mr M for his effort in bringing this complaint.
I remain satisfied the outage  which all parties accept was a failing on Santanders part  
caused Mr M some distress and inconvenience. But for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, I find £250 compensation fairly reflects the impact this matter had on 
Mr M. Im not going to require Santander to pay Mr M more.My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman