DRN-2019866
The complaint
Mr O complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr O acquired a second had car at a cost of £7,630 funded by a deposit of 
£100 and the balance by a hire purchase agreement. The car was some three years old and 
had done 23,760 miles. In the first week Mr O noticed the car was juddering when being 
reversed and he took it back to the dealer. It confirmed there was an issue with the clutch 
and it recommended it be taken to a main dealer to be repaired under warranty.
Mr O did so, but the dealer which had sold the car ceased trading and the main dealer 
refused to carry out the repair. Mr O complained to Blue which said the clutch was a service 
maintenance item for which they wouldnt be liable. Mr O brought his complaint to this 
service. 
It was considered by one of our investigators who I initially recommended it be upheld. 
However, after further information he agreed with the proposal put forward by Blue that it 
cover the cost of repairs to the clutch. Mr O said he had encountered further problems with 
the car and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman. Later he notified us that the 
car had been in an accident and had been written off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Blue is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.I have noted the car had issues not long after it was acquired. Normally I would expect to 
see an independent report into the cause of the problem, but none was commissioned and 
as the car has been written off it is too late to have one carried out. It is difficult to say 
whether the fault was inherent at the point of sale. It was subject to a MOT which didnt show 
up any issues and a separate AA report which didnt refer to any problems with the clutch. 
Both of these indicate that the car was satisfactory at the point of sale. Against that is that 
fact that the problem arose shortly after acquisition and Mr O encountered problems having 
driven it for a little over 1,000 miles.
I gather he was able to continue using it until the accident. I consider it a reasonable 
response from Blue to accept responsibility for the cost of repairing the clutch.  However, 
that is no longer possible and as such I cannot conclude that it need do anymore. I 
understand that the insurance company has paid out and Mr O is left with an outstanding 
balance. I have seen no evidence to show that the issue with the clutch had any effect on 
the sum paid out and so any arrears that Mr O is paying off are simply to do with the normal 
effects of depreciation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman