DRN-4311357
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his let property insurer Amtrust Europe Limited because it 
declined his fire claim.
What happened
Mr M owns a property which he lets out. He arranged cover via a broker with Amtrust. He 
was asked, when arranging the cover, to confirm that cooking would not be allowed 
anywhere other than a kitchen. He agreed. 
In June 2022 Mr Ms tenant set up an electric tabletop hob in a room that was not the 
kitchen. Mr M has said the room is used for storage  when Amtrust became involved it 
referred to it as a bedroom. Either way it was not a kitchen. Whilst the hob was being used, a 
fire broke out. The tenant covered the chip pan with a damp towel and the fire didnt spread 
but there was some scorching in the vicinity of the pan and smoke damage throughout the 
small property. Mr M made a claim to Amtrust. 
Amtrust appointed a loss adjuster who attended the property in July. Mr M was asked to get 
some repair quotes. He found this difficult. It was November when he was able to submit 
them. In January Amtrust declined Mr Ms claim. It referenced a general policy exclusion for 
damage caused whilst cooking in a room other than a kitchen. Mr M felt that was unfair  he 
noted he had cover for fire and accidental damage, and this had been an accident. He said 
he could not control what the tenant did, and it had certainly not been his intention for 
cooking to be done other than in the kitchen. He also felt Amtrust had only declined the claim 
once it saw the cost for repair, circa £15,000. When Amtrust wouldnt change its view, Mr M 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator, noting the exclusion was referenced in the policy schedule, felt Amtrust had 
acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. So she wasnt minded to make it consider 
or accept the claim further. But she felt it could and should have done that sooner. So she 
felt it should pay Mr M £250 compensation. 
Amtrust did not respond to the findings. Mr M was dissatisfied by them. 
Mr M said he had reasonably expected his tenant to apply common sense in his use of the 
property  he had certainly never given permission or actively allowed the tenant to cook 
outside the kitchen. Hed checked the house regularly. He didnt think something so obvious 
needed highlighting to the tenant, such as putting it in the lease. He felt Amtrusts decision 
could not be fair when he was not to blame. Mr M said Amtrust knew the nature of his tenant 
 that he had accepted the policy specifically because it chose to cover that type of tenancy 
when other insurers would not. He thinks Amtrust must have known that type of tenancy 
comes with greater risks including the potential for poor decision making. He argued a tenant 
doing something irresponsible is largely predictable, which is why hed taken insurance.
Our Investigator confirmed that she had not based her decision on what Mr M had permitted.  
She said she the general nature of the tenancy didnt mean that Amtrust should reasonably 
be asked to overlook specific risks it had chosen to not be liable for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this situation is very concerning for Mr M. I can see he acted to try and 
make sure he was covered for an unexpected incident like this and that, without the 
assistance of Amtrust, he will have to find substantial funds to reinstate his property. I also 
know he will likely lose, or may already have lost, his tenant. But just as I have to bear his 
situation in mind, I have to think about Amtrusts position too.
Amtrust did seek to offer cover for this let property, for this type of tenancy. Most insurers 
view let properties as being a greater risk for cover, regardless of the tenancy type, than 
properties which are lived in by the policyholder. As Mr M has pointed out  he cannot 
control what the tenant does in the property  even with regular checks. And, in general 
terms, its often the case that someone who owns and lives in their own home is likely to take 
better care of it, than a tenant. With an owner/occupier also being more easily able to carry 
out regular maintenance or urgent work quickly, than a landlord is. So not all insurers will 
offer cover for let properties, and those that do often choose to tailor and limit their policies to 
account for the property being let. 
I think Amtrust likely accepts, and expects, that the nature of the tenancy here added a 
further degree of risk. But that doesnt mean it is fair to say that because it has offered cover 
for a let property for this type of tenancy, it has to then just accept liability for anything which 
happens at the property. On the contrary, Amtrust, having noted there are likely risks, has 
sought to guard against certain specific risks it does not want to be liable for. Its done that 
by including within its policy, exceptions, or exclusions, to cover. And if it can show that a 
loss occurred due to something which is excluded, then its often likely it will be able to 
reasonably decline liability for that loss. 
The exclusion in question here is for:
Any Damage caused by cooking in any area other than a clearly designated kitchen.
This is a general exclusion which applies to most of the policy, including the sections of 
cover for fire and accidental damage. It is quite significant and its not one Ive come across 
before, so it might be considered to be unusual. But, as noted by our Investigator, it was 
highlighted in the policy schedule. With Mr M arranging this cover via a broker, I couldnt 
reasonably have expected Amtrust to do anything more to highlight this important term. Mr M 
has expressed that he understood the importance to him of having insurance, and it was 
equally as important for him to make sure he checked the policy. Both to understand it and 
ensure the policy suited his needs. If he was unhappy with the exclusion, with it being clearly 
set out in the policy schedule, he had the opportunity, had he wanted to, to look for an 
alternative policy.
However, Mr M continued with the cover with Amtrust. Unfortunately, for Mr M, the tenant 
acted to cook in an area which was not a designated kitchen. And a fire resulted. Damage 
was caused  according to the loss adjusters report, and reflected in Mr Ms estimate; 
greater damage in the room at the seat of the fire, than seems likely would have occurred 
had cooking been taking place in the kitchen. In the circumstances, I think its reasonable for 
Amtrust to rely on the general exclusion to cover to decline liability for this loss.
Amtrusts loss adjuster though, attending the property in July 2022, noted the circumstances 
of the loss and the general exclusion to cover. Its not clear to me why it then took Amtrust 
six months to decline liability for the loss. A decision which could reasonably have been made within a few weeks, a month at most. I dont doubt Mr M was caused some frustration 
and upset when the decline came so late, and only after, from Mr Ms point of view, him 
showing it how much the claim would cost. I think Amtrust could have handled this better; 
such as putting him on notice early on that the claim might not be covered, then making its 
decision in a reasonably timely manner. Because it didnt do so Mr M was caused distress 
and inconvenience. Im satisfied that £250 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. 
I know Mr M was unhappy about being asked to get estimates for repair. But in general 
terms a policyholder does usually need to assist to some extent with determining the value 
of the loss. Its not unusual for an insurer to ask for estimates to be obtained and I note the 
policy Mr M had with Amtrust offered to settle claims on the basis of Amtrust paying for 
repair, rather than it taking on the repair itself (as some insurers do offer and prefer to do). 
And a loss adjuster, seeking to manage a claim effectively will often ask for estimates to be 
gathered at the outset, whilst any other necessary investigations are carried out or issues of 
liability are considered. Acting like that helps to avoid or limit delays. Amtrust did then delay 
its liability decision, as Ive noted, but it having asked Mr M to gather estimates was not, in 
itself, unreasonable.  
Putting things right
I require Amtrust to pay Mr M £250 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman