DRN-3123496
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the service she received from Strawberry Invest, an appointed 
representative of P1 Investment Management Limited, referred to as the business.
What happened
In early October 2020, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms a part of my final decision:  
provisionally Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs L says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Ls strength of feeling about this matter. Shes provided detailed submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mrs L and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the business was entitled to
close Mrs Ls account. I dont think it was under any obligation to provide a service that it
didnt want to. I note that on 29 July 2020, Mrs L was served with the notice of termination, in
line with the business terms and conditions. Im satisfied the notice made clear that she had
30 days before her account would be closed on 31 August 2020. In the circumstances Im
satisfied that Mrs L was given appropriate notice and had a choice to either allow the
account to be closed or to move out.
        
Whilst I appreciate what the investigator says, I dont think the business closed the account
just because Mrs L asked questions and sought clarification. I note the business said Mrs L
might be served better by a different business geared towards providing a service, and it
was entitled to make that decision. In any event, in light of the preceding paragraph, I dont
think this is material to the issues in this case, because the business was entitled to close
the account regardless of the reason.
I note on 5 August 2020, roughly seven days after receiving the notice, Mrs L asked the
business for the form to transfer her holdings but was duly notified (the next day) that she
would have to contact the transferee to make the application. Ive no doubt that Mrs L
intended to transfer her holdings rather than cash them in, but it was overall her
responsibility to ensure that the business received the relevant transfer form before the
account was closed.
On 21 August 2020, the business messaged Mrs L out of courtesy to say that it still hadnt
received the form/the transfer request, and that she had 10 days before the account would
be closed, which I think was reasonable. In the circumstances I dont think the business was
obliged to follow this up with a telephone call, therefore I dont think it has done anything
wrong by not doing so.
I note Mrs L responded to say that she had initiated the process  Im mindful her form was
dated 21 August 2020  however, its not clear if she did so before, or after, she received the
message from the business. It seems Mrs L waited until then to start the process, having
been given notice on 29 July 2020 and being made aware on 6 August 2020 of what she
needed to do. In any case, simply initiating the process with the transferee didnt stop the
clock ticking with the business  it still needed the relevant form to start working on the
transfer request.
Unfortunately for Mrs L, the business didnt receive the transfer request until 3 September
2020, about three/four days past the 30-day deadline, by which time the business had
already closed the account. Im mindful it notified Mrs L on 1 September 2020 that it was
closing the account. In the circumstances I cant safely say that the business behaved
unreasonably.
Its possible that the form/request wasnt sent on time, or that there was an issue with the
post, or both. But regardless of the reason for the form not being received before the end of
the notice period, it wasnt the business doing. I cant safely say that its responsible for the
actions of a third-party financial business and/or postal service.
I understand that Mrs L may have thought that once she had completed the transfer form,
she had done what she needed to do. However, it was her responsibility to ensure that the
business got the form in time before the end of the notice period so that it could start the
transfer process. Despite what the investigator says, I dont think the business behaved
unreasonably by not extending the deadline before closing the account. Im satisfied that Mrs
L was given due notice, and a reminder, with enough time for her to act. If the business had
received the form, and still closed the account, I might have decided the case differently, but
this isnt the case here.
I appreciate the points Mrs L makes, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business was
motivated by any kind of malice towards her, and the business viewing her linkedin-profile 
doesnt change my decision.
The sale value wasnt something that the business couldve predicted or had control over. It
was subject to numerous factors outside of the business control, therefore I cant blame the
business for the value Mrs L received upon the sale of her holdings. So even if Mrs L
received less than she was expecting, I cant blame the business for this, because it hasnt
done anything wrong in closing her account.
I appreciate Mrs L will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint
and give her what she wants.
Both parties were given an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision. Mrs L responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, she said that she 
wasnt aware that an ombudsman could overrule the investigators view. She feels the 
business shouldve considered its approach considering the pandemic  there were postal 
delays beyond her control. Consequently, shes lost her ISA allowance and this incident has 
caused her a lot of distress.   
The business also responded and said that it was satisfied with the intended outcome. It had 
nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new material submissions, my decision not to uphold this 
complaint remains the same, as set out in my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons. 
In other words, no new material points have been made that persuade me to change my 
decision. In this instance Im still satisfied  not withstanding Mrs Ls response  that the key 
points remain the same, and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
I understand that the investigator has explained to Mrs L that as an ombudsman Im not 
bound by the conclusion of an investigator. And if one or more party disagrees with an 
investigators view, its my role to look at the complaint afresh and make a new decision. 
I appreciate what Mrs L says about the pandemic, but Im mindful that on 29 July 2020, Mrs 
L was served with the notice of termination, in line with the business terms and conditions. 
On 21 August 2020, the business messaged Mrs L out of courtesy to say that it still hadnt 
received the form/the transfer request, and that she had 10 days before the account would 
be closed. 
I note Mrs L responded to say that she had initiated the process  Im mindful her form was
dated 21 August 2020  however, its not clear if she did so before, or after, she received the
message from the business. It seems Mrs L waited until then to start the process, having
been given notice on 29 July 2020 and being made aware on 6 August 2020 of what she
needed to do. In the circumstances I cant blame the business for not giving her a 
reasonable amount of time to respond. 
As I said in my provisional decision, the business didnt receive the transfer request until 3 
September 2020, about three/four days past the 30-day deadline, by which time the 
business had already closed the account. Im mindful it notified Mrs L on 1 September 2020 
that it was closing the account. In the circumstances I cant safely say that the business 
behaved unreasonably.
Its possible that the form/request wasnt sent on time, or that there was an issue with the
post, or both. But regardless of the reason for the form not being received before the end of
the notice period, it wasnt the business doing. I cant safely say that its responsible for the
actions of a third-party financial business and/or postal service. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied Mrs L had enough time to respond to the notice. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I still dont uphold this complaint as I dont 
think the business has behaved unreasonably. My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman