DRN-3050408
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has unfairly rejected a claim for 
damage under his home insurance policy. He would like it to cover the cost of the necessary 
repairs.
Mr S has been represented by his daughter, Mrs K, in this complaint. I will refer to Mr S in 
my decision for ease of reading.
What happened
Mr S says that in December 2019 a heavy glass shower screen, came off its top hinge, and 
fell into the enamel encased metal bath directly beneath it. The bath has suffered damage to 
the enamel as a result of this. In addition, damage was caused to a bath seat.
 
Lloyds sent a Personal Claims Consultant (PCC) to assess the damage. The PCC took 
photographs of the bath and surrounding area, which shows the damage caused to the bath. 
The photographs also show the wall the screen was attached to and the fixings. 
Measurements were taken by the PCC to understand whether the damage claimed was 
consistent with the screen coming away from the top hinge.
 
The PCC reported that as the screen rested on the outer rim of the bath, and given its 
dimensions, it was unlikely that the screen could have fallen into the bath. It was explained 
by the PCC that if the screen had fallen, it would have most likely hit the opposite wall but 
could not have caused the damage within the bath.   
The PCC also reported that the damage to the bath showed signs of corrosion. And that this 
was likely to be a sign of the damage having been caused some time ago. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. This was based on the available 
evidence, including the PCCs conclusion that the falling screen would not have caused the 
damage shown. 
Further evidence was provided by Mr S including videos of the screen being held up in order 
to illustrate how it was likely to have fallen. He was able to demonstrate how the screen 
could have fallen into the bath. And show the likely impact areas, which match the damage 
shown in the photographs. 
Mr S also supplied an expert witness statement from a Mr P. This was delayed due to the 
restrictions caused by the coronavirus pandemic. Mr P was not able to visit Mr S home. 
However, he was able to establish a view of what happened based on a video call and 
photographs, in addition to discussion with Mr S and his family.
The expert concluded that the screen was likely to have fallen into the bath, when the top 
hinge failed. He explained that if the screen was left positioned slightly inwards, over the 
bath, this would have resulted in the screen falling inwards, causing the damage shown.   
  
Our investigator asked Lloyds to review its decision based on the video evidence and Mr Ps 
witness statement. Its response was to maintain its view that damage was not caused by the 
screen falling into the bath, given the PCCs assessment. Lloyds also said that as it was the 
top hinge that had failed, this is the result of wear and tear, which is not something covered 
by Mr S policy. 
The investigator maintained his decision not to uphold the complaint. Mr S asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2021 explaining that I was intending not to uphold Mr 
Ss complaint. Heres what I said:
Provisional findings
Ive considered all available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can understand Mr S frustration. The videos and photographs he supplied do clearly 
demonstrate how the screen could have fallen into the bath. In one of the videos the screen 
is lowered from its starting position attached to the wall, into the bath. The bottom corner of 
the screen impacts with the base of the bath near the plug hole. As the screen continues to 
be lowered, the top impacts the far edge of the bath. The points where the screen touches 
the bath match exactly with where the damage is shown to have occurred. 
The PCC took measurements of the screen and bath to support the view that it was not 
possible for the screen to have fallen in the way described. I accept the PCC genuinely felt 
the screen could not have fallen in to the bath based on this assessment. However, I am 
satisfied, based on the videos and photographs supplied, that the damage was most likely 
caused by the screen falling into the bath. 
Mr Ps report, in section 3.2, says the screen, is fitted to the wall profile by means of small 
rings that fit over lugs mounted on the wall profile. It also says, There was clear evidence, 
again by means of a close-up view, that the top lug had broken off. The cause of the break 
was unknown. 
The report refers to the reconstruction Mr S was able to demonstrate of the falling screen. In 
section 4.3, Mr P highlights the possibility of the screen pivoting on the rim of the bath. In this 
scenario the screen is positioned inwards, hanging over the bath. Mr P says that in this 
position the screen lifts off the bottom hinge without causing any damage to it. Again, I note 
this action was demonstrated in the video supplied by Mr S. 
In section 4.2 of his report Mr P refers to the PCCs assumption that the screen was seated 
on the bath rim. As mentioned above, this does not take into consideration the possibility 
that the screen was hanging over the bath, when it fell. 
In my view this is an important point, which the PCC has not mentioned. The screen can 
pivot on its hinges and move inwards over the bath as well as outwards. The screen could 
have fallen in the way described if its starting position was hanging over the bath.
 
Mr P sets out another relevant point under section 5.3 of his report. He says the corrosion 
mentioned by the PCC, is the result of the steel bath having been used since the damage 
occurred. In his view corrosion is not evidence of the damage occurring earlier, but 
subsequent to the damage that was caused. 
This argument is persuasive, given the damaged enamel exposed the inner surface of the 
bath. It is reasonable to expect this will show signs of corrosion over time. 
Our investigator sent Lloyds a copy of Mr Ps report. In its response it says:..the top hinge has been broken off initially which would suggest wear and tear. There was 
not any evidence of a hinge on the floor when I visited nor did the PH show me this, so if this 
is the case then it could be that the hinge had been broken for a period of time before the 
shower screen fell off. If they were still using the bath etc and moving the screen with the top 
hinge missing then this would have weakened the bottom hinge and caused the screen to 
eventually fall off.
The investigator wrote to Mr S confirming what Lloyds had said in response to Mr Ps report. 
Essentially, confirming that the company had not changed its position. He concluded that 
Lloyds position was more persuasive and decided a decision not to uphold the complaint 
was fair.  
I take a different view to that of our investigator. Having considered all the information, I am 
satisfied the damage to the bath was most likely caused by the screen falling into it.
That said Mr S policy does have exclusions. Page 45 of the policy booklet says, This policy 
does not cover any loss or damage caused by Wear and Tear.   
It also explains Wear and Tear is damage that naturally and inevitably occurs as a result of 
normal wear or ageing and You are not insured against the costs of maintenance or the 
costs of any damage caused by inadequate maintenance. Examples include:  ..Faulty 
Workmanship, poor design, or defective or inherently unsuitable materials.
These are important clauses here, as it has not been demonstrated the failure of the top 
hinge constitutes an insured event. The policy is designed to cover sudden or unexpected 
events, not problems that have developed over time. 
Little is said by Mr S in his correspondence about the cause of the hinge failing other than to 
confirm this was how the screen fell off the wall. Mr Ps report also has little detail around 
this point other than to say that the hinge has snapped off.
I accept Mr S explanation of how the damage occurred to the bath. However, I think it is 
probable that the hinge breaking, was the result of damage occurring over time. I have not 
seen evidence of a different cause. The screen is heavy, weighing approximately 30 kilos. It 
is a reasonable argument to accept that wear and tear over time weakened the top hinge. 
This eventually resulted in its failure and the damage caused to the bath. 
 
In its response to Mr Ps report Lloyds says the damage was caused by wear and tear and 
has shown the policy wording includes an exclusion for such damage. On this evidence I 
think it is reasonable for Lloyds to apply this exclusion and decline the claim.
I said I was intending not to uphold the complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Lloyds didnt respond. Mr S responded to say he does not accept that the failure of the 
shower screen was due to wear and tear or lack of maintenance. He supplied fitting 
instructions for shower screens from two different manufacturers. He says these have similar 
hinge points and the only point of wear is the point of pivot and not with the part that broke. 
Mr S says neither of the manuals specify what maintenance is required other than for 
cleaning to be carried out. He says the spare parts listed do not include the broken hinge. Mr 
S believes if this part was expected to wear out, it would be included in the list of spares. Mr S refers to the policy terms referenced in my provisional decision relating to wear and 
tear and normal wear or ageing. He says the shower screen is less than ten years old and 
most manufacturers provide a ten-year guarantee. Mr S believes this indicates the cause of 
the damage could not be the result of wear and tear or normal ageing.
Mr S denotes my reference to the policy providing cover for sudden or unexpected events. 
He says Mr P described the hinge as having snapped off. He says the dictionary definition 
of snapped is if something snaps or if you snap it, it breaks suddenly, usually with a sharp 
cracking noise. Mr S thinks Mr Ps report had therefore said the fault was due to a sudden 
or unexpected event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the further comments and information provided by Mr S. I acknowledge 
his view that the only point of wear is the pivot point for the shower screen and that the 
screen rests on this point. I also note his point around the age of the screen and the 
warranty periods shown in the information he provided. However, I dont think this 
demonstrates the failed upper hinge was immune from the effects of wear and tear or that 
this wasnt the likely cause due to continued use over time.
Mr Ss view is that hed expect the failed hinge to be listed with the spare parts, if this was a 
component that was expected to wear out. I understand the point he is making here. 
However, again, I dont think this demonstrates that the part couldnt have failed, or that 
there is another clear cause of the failure.  
Mr Ps report doesnt refer to the cause of the broken hinge, only that it had snapped off, 
resulting in the shower screen falling into the bath. Having considered Mrs S comments, I 
think Lloyds view that wear and tear was the most probable cause of the hinge failure, is still 
the most persuasive. 
In summary, I think its reasonable to accept the damage claimed was the result of a hinge 
failure due to wear and tear. Because of this, I think Lloyds acted fairly and in line with the 
policy terms in declining this claim. So, I cannot fairly ask it to do more to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr S 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman