DRN-3257318
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain that they were mis-sold a joint Platinum Account (PA) nearly twenty 
years ago by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Y say they were told by Lloyds that they would never have to pay a fee for the 
PA so long as they kept at least £4000 in the account. They say Lloyds has now removed 
this fee waiver and it should not have done so.
Lloyds says that it notified Mr and Mrs Y of the removal of the fee waiver in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the PA, and have offered to move Mr and Mrs Y to a fee free 
account without benefits if they would prefer not pay for an account.
I wasnt present at the original sale so I cant know what was said by either party at the time. 
So, I can only base my decision on the evidence available today.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs Y are upset by the change to their account after so many 
years of holding the PA with Lloyds.
So, Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of the PA. 
In my view they make it clear that both parties have the right to withdraw from the original 
agreement provided adequate notice is given. 
The bank did notify Mr and Mrs Y in writing in good time about removing the fee waiver. And 
the removal of the waiver is something it is entitled to do as a commercial decision. Lloyds 
also offered to move Mr and Mrs Y to a fee free account if they wished.
So, although I know Mr and Mrs Y will be disappointed, in my view Lloyds didnt do anything 
wrong in this matter.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman