DRN-2507267
The complaint
 Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) failed to notify him when his 
account went overdrawn, resulting in a late payment marker being added to his credit file 
when he failed to pay an unarranged overdraft charge.
What happened
Mr M holds an account with Clydesdale. He was unhappy because they allowed a direct 
debit to be taken from his account which resulted in unarranged overdraft charges of £36 
being applied to his account on 28 August 2019. Mr M failed to pay the charge, however, as 
he says he was not aware of it as he was on holiday at the time. 
Clydesdale refunded the unarranged overdraft charge as a gesture of goodwill, but reported 
the late payment of the charges to the credit referencing agencies in September 2019, which 
Mr M says has had an adverse effect on his credit rating and has caused him financial 
difficulty.
Mr M complained that Clydesdale failed to notify him as they shouldve done when his 
account went overdrawn. He says that if theyd notified him, he would have immediately 
brought his account back into credit so as to avoid the charges and subsequent late 
payment marker that has been applied to his credit file. Mr M also says that when he spoke 
to Clydesdale about the late payment marker, they said there would be no problem removing 
it from his credit file and it would be updated at the end of the month. However, no change 
was made, and Clydesdale subsequently said it would not be removing the late payment 
marker.
I issued my provisional findings on 17 December 2020. I said I was minded to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint because the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) had issued an order 
(which became effective in August 2017) for all current account providers to automatically 
enrol all personal current account customers into an unarranged overdraft alert made via text 
message or mobile banking. 
I asked Clydesdale if they had sent any such alert to Mr M. They said they had sent him 
letters notifying him of the overdrawn position, but had confirmed with their digital team that 
no text messages were sent to him in 2019. As a result, I said I wasnt persuaded that 
Clydesdale had complied with their obligations and set out the following findings:
Clydesdale has been able to provide information about a text alert that was sent on 5 April 
2018, so it seems odd that they cannot demonstrate the same message being sent when the 
account was overdrawn in July 2019. I appreciate theyve said that nobody else had reported 
problems around that time, but I dont consider that to be enough evidence to suggest that 
an alert was likely sent to Mr M  particularly when he has been consistent in his testimony 
that he received no contact by phone/text message from Clydesdale around that time. In 
their email to us on 10 December 2020, Clydesdale also said I confirmed with our digital 
team that no text messages were sent to the customer in 2019. So, on balance, it does not 
appear that the text alert was sent.
I appreciate that the bank sent letters about the charges, but Mr M has said he was out of 
the country at the time. So, if he had received the text alert in July 2019 as he should have 
done, I think he wouldve likely acted to bring his account into credit and wouldve avoided 
the overdraft charges, meaning a late payment would not have been recorded on his credit 
file. So, Im currently minded to uphold the complaint on this basis and will be directing 
Clydesdale to remove the late payment marker from Mr Ms credit file as I consider this to be 
a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances.
I invited further comments in response to my provisional findings, but neither party 
responded with anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Given that neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out above in my provisional findings and have decided to uphold this 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to 
remove the late payment marker from Mr Ms credit file that they reported in September 
2019.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman