DRN-2221926
The complaint
Mr W has complained about ReAssure Limited. He says that there were delays in arranging 
his annuity.
Mr W complained to Legal and General but ReAssure are now responsible for the annuity 
and this complaint.
What happened
Mr W held a personal pension policy with another business, Ill refer to that business as B1. 
In September 2018 he contacted B1 and said that he wanted to take tax free cash (TFC) and 
set up an annuity with the remaining fund. Hed decided to set up the annuity with ReAssure 
and not B1. B1 responded in October 2018 and told Mr W that it needed confirmation from 
ReAssure that it would accept the fund.
Mr W completed ReAssures annuity application on 11 October 2018 and sent this to them. 
He contacted ReAssure on 30 October 2018 as hed been told by B1 that ReAssure were 
holding matters up as it hadnt provided bank details or the pension scheme tax reference 
(PSTR).
Mr P complained about both ReAssure and B1.
B1 sent the funds to ReAssure on 12 November 2018 and the annuity was set up on 26 
November 2018. When the annuity was arranged it was lower than Mr W expected because 
the pension value had fallen by £800.
ReAssure responded to the complaint and said that delays had been caused by B1. B1 had 
said that ReAssure hadnt provided information but that wasnt correct. The completed 
annuity application was only received on 15 October and it had requested funds from B1 on 
18 October 2018.
Mr W referred both complaints to this service. B1 made an offer which Mr W accepted. 
ReAssure said that it had done nothing wrong.
Our investigator considered this complaint, but she didnt think that it should be upheld. She 
wasnt satisfied that ReAssure had caused any delay. Mr W disagreed, he said ReAssure 
had not acted on the quote from 24 September 2018 until it received the application on 18 
October 2018. He said it should have made the transaction easier throughout.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and with her reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint.
Mr W had contacted ReAssure on 24 September 2018, but I agree that it couldnt set up the 
annuity until it had the relevant paperwork and the funds. ReAssure received the application 
on 15 October and request the funds on 18 October 2018. I dont think there was any 
unreasonable delay there. ReAssure also included bank details and the PSTR with its 
request to B1. So, despite what B1 has said to the contrary, ReAssure appears to have done 
what it could to move things along, including providing the necessary details.
There is also evidence from a phone call between B1 and ReAssure from 31 October 2018. 
That call confirms that B1 agreed that it had received all the necessary information with 
ReAssures letter of 18 October 2018.
I understand Mr W spoke to B1 again and it still maintained that ReAssure hadnt sent the 
necessary information. But Im satisfied that what B1 told Mr P at that time wasnt correct.
I agree with the investigator that it was B1 that was responsible for the delay in the annuity 
being arranged. B1 had all that it needed with the letter of 18 October 2018.
When Mr W contacted ReAssure it chased up B1 and resent the information. B1 sent the 
funds and the annuity was set up after the funds had cleared. Whilst its true that the annuity 
with ReAssure was for a lower amount than Mr W expected, thats primarily because the 
original annuity quotes were based on a higher fund value. ReAssure received £800 less 
than the original quotes anticipated when the funds were sent, and the quotes arent 
guaranteed. The fund value would fluctuate due to the performance of the underlying 
investments.
So, for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. B1 has made a payment of redress to 
Mr W in respect of its failures, and Im not satisfied that ReAssure was responsible for any 
delay in arranging the annuity. Im sorry that Mr W found the experience of arranging this 
annuity more difficult than he had expected, but Im not satisfied that I can say ReAssure is 
responsible for that.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman