DRN-2888570
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services, was 
misrepresented to him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T and to Alphera Financial Services 
on 14 May 2021. I described what had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mr T under a hire purchase agreement with Alphera 
Financial Services that was dated in February 2019. He wanted to sell the car in 
January 2021 but discovered that it had been salvaged before it was supplied to him 
which reduced its value.
A complaint was made to Alphera Financial Services but it said that the dealer had 
provided an HPI report which had no historic markers showing that the car had been 
involved in an accident. It said that, given that the salvage history wasnt reported on 
the HPI check made by the dealer, it had met its obligations.
A complaint was made to this service and our investigator recommended that it 
should be upheld. He thought that a misrepresentation was made as Mr T was given 
factually incorrect information about the history of the car. He said that Mr T wanted 
to return the car and end the agreement and he thought that that would be a 
reasonable way to put him back in the position he wouldve been in if the 
misrepresentation hadnt been made.
Alphera Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that the process undertaken by the dealer was the procedure 
that is recognised in the industry as correct and it would be unfair to uphold this case 
as it and the dealer have done their part in carrying out the correct procedure prior to 
Mr T agreeing to the finance.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr T entered into the hire purchase agreement and agreed for the car to be supplied 
to him. He made an advance payment of £2,000 and agreed to make 35 monthly 
repayments of £547.24 and an optional final repayment of £14,906.23 for the car.
The dealer made an HPI check before the car was supplied to Mr T and no issues 
with it were identified on that check. I consider it to more likely than not that Mr T 
relied on that check when he agreed for the car to be supplied to him.
Mr T wanted to sell the car in January 2021 but discovered that if had been salvaged 
before it was supplied to him which reduced its value. Hes provided reports which 
show that the car had been salvaged and information from a salvage database 
showing that the car was salvaged in June 2017 which includes photos showing the 
damage to the car at that time.
Alphera Financial Services hasnt provided any information to show that the car 
hadnt been salvaged but says that the dealer made an HPI check which is the 
procedure that is recognised in the industry. On the basis of the evidence that Ive 
seen, I consider that the HPI check contained incorrect information and that the car 
was misrepresented to Mr T. Ive seen no evidence to show that the dealer or 
Alphera Financial Services knew that the HPI check was incorrect or that they acted 
incorrectly in the process that they followed.
But I consider that the information on the HPI check was incorrect so the car was 
misrepresented to Mr T and that its more likely than not that he wouldnt have 
agreed for the car to be supplied to him if the information on the HPI check had been 
correct.
Mr T has said that he wanted to return the car and the end the agreement so when 
recommending that his complaint should be upheld, our investigator said that Alphera 
Financial Services should allow him to return the car and end the agreement. But I 
consider that the appropriate remedy for the misrepresentation is that Mr T should be 
put back in the position, as nearly as possible, that he was in before the car was 
supplied to him (with him paying for the use that he had from the car). That includes 
refunding the advance payment that he made for the car so that, if he chooses to do 
so, he can use it for as an advance payment on a replacement car.
For these reasons I consider that, as well as allowing Mr T to return the car and end 
the agreement, it would be fair and reasonable for Alphera Financial Services to 
refund to Mr T the advance payment of £2,000 that he made for the car, with interest. 
I find that it should also remove all information about the agreement that its recorded 
on Mr Ts credit file.
Mr T has been able to use the car but he says that hes paying for a car that hes no 
longer willing to use. Ive seen no evidence to show that the car is unsafe to drive 
and it passed an MOT test with no advisories in March 2021. Im not persuaded that 
it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Alphera Financial Services to refund 
to Mr T any of the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement. I consider 
that its fair and reasonable for it to keep those payments for the use that hes had 
from the car.
These events will have caused some distress and inconvenience for Mr T. I find that 
it would also be fair and reasonable for Alphera Financial Services to pay him £200 
to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience. 
So, subject to any further representations by Mr T or Alphera Financial Services, my 
provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. Mr T has accepted my 
provisional decision but Alphera Financial Services has asked what checks it and the retailer 
are meant to undertake prior to going ahead with the finance if HPI isnt satisfactory  
because its the system that the whole car industry uses and it needs to understand why its 
no longer satisfactory.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. I dont 
consider that its for me to tell Alphera Financial Services what checks should be made 
before a car is supplied to a customer and in my provisional decision I said: Ive seen no 
evidence to show that the dealer or Alphera Financial Services knew that the HPI check was 
incorrect or that they acted incorrectly in the process that they followed. 
But in this case I consider that the information on the HPI check was incorrect, that Mr T 
relied on that incorrect information and that the car was misrepresented to him as a result of 
the incorrect information that he was given.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Alphera Financial 
Services to take the actions described in my provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and I order BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr T  
both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr T the advance payment that he made for the car. 
3. Pay interest on that advance payment at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
4. Remove all information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Ts credit file.
5. Pay £200 to Mr T to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Alphera Financial Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 3 above. Alphera Financial Services must give Mr T a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman