DRN-4066598
The complaint
Ms C complains that AJ Bell Management Limited (AJ Bell) gave her wrong information 
and caused unnecessary inconvenience in setting up a Direct Debit for the Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) she held with them. She was also concerned that a contribution 
she made had fallen into the wrong tax year. She would like to be paid £100 for the 
inconvenience.
What happened
In April 2022, Ms C made two contributions to her AJ Bell SIPP. The statement shows that 
the first was made on 4 April and the second on 5 April. Contract notes show the deal 
dates for the funds she invested in as being on 5 April and 6 April. Ms C wanted both 
contributions to have been included in the 2021/22 tax year but was concerned that this 
hadnt happened and that they straddled two different tax years. AJ Bell subsequently 
confirmed that both contributions had been made in the 2021/22 tax year.
Ms C also wanted to set up a Direct Debit for a regular contribution starting in April. But she 
had recently switched bank accounts, so AJ Bell needed proof that the new bank account 
was hers. AJ Bell emailed Ms C on 8 April telling her that the evidence would need to include 
her name and address and account details. It would also need to be dated within the last 
three months.
Ms C called AJ Bell on 12 April to explain that, because her bank account was newly 
opened, she would not be able to provide a full statement until the end of April. AJ Bell 
explained to her that they could accept a different document from her bank as long as it had 
the account details and her address. 
The same day Ms C sent a copy of a letter with her name and account details, but no 
address; and a mini statement which also had her name and account details, but no 
address. AJ Bell replied by email the following day to point out that neither document had 
her address, so did not provide the evidence they needed.
Ms C provided documentation that met the requirements (name, address, account details) 
on 19 April and the account was verified on 20 April. That day AJ Bell called Ms C to let her 
know that all was in order and that she could now set up the Direct Debit online.
Since Ms C had expressed concern that she had been given incorrect information, AJ Bell 
offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Ms C did not accept the offer because she felt that it 
was not proportionate to the inconvenience she had experienced. She wanted £100. As a 
result the matter became a formal complaint, which AJ Bell did not uphold. They said that 
they had acted fairly in giving her correct information and responding in a timely fashion.
Ms C brought the dispute to this service, where our investigator thought AJ Bell had acted 
fairly, and asked them to do nothing more. Since Ms C continued to disagree the matter was 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Ms C was concerned about the second of her lump sum contributions 
falling into the next tax year, because her statement showed that the investment transaction 
was dated 6 April. But this was the date the fund was purchased, not the date of the 
contribution, which is the date that matters for tax relief purposes. The fund purchase 
happened inside the pension, so whether it was dated 5 or 6 April does not matter for the 
purposes of allocating the contribution and resulting tax relief against a particular years 
income. So I find that both contributions were in fact made in the tax year in which Ms C 
wanted to make them.
I understand that AJ Bell has now provided reassurances that both contributions were made 
in 2021/2022 so I am satisfied that AJ Bell has nothing further to do in relation to this issue. 
I think it was reasonable for AJ Bell to ask Ms C to provide evidence of her new bank 
account including her address on the same document. AJ Bell needs to have procedures like 
this to help prevent fraud. AJ Bell were consistent in what they said was required throughout 
the process and I have seen no evidence that Ms C was given wrong information at any 
time. So I think AJ Bell acted fairly in requesting the documents they did.
I dont think AJ Bell caused any delays. They replied promptly to Ms C throughout. This 
meant that, despite only getting the documents they needed on 19 April, Ms C was able to 
set up her Direct Debit on 20 April. It was not AJ Bells fault that Ms C did not have the 
information they would normally require (a bank statement) but they were able to work with 
Ms C to overcome this. So I dont think they have done anything wrong in how they 
processed the change of account details.
Ms C said in the 20 April phone call that she felt she had been penalised for changing her 
bank account. As I have explained above I think it was reasonable and proportionate for AJ 
Bell to confirm new bank account details to protect against fraud. She was not being 
penalised but the process of setting up a Direct Debit was complicated by the change of 
bank account. I find that AJ Bell did not penalise Ms C.  
AJ Bell offered Ms C £50 to resolve the dispute informally to avoid the need for the time and 
expense taken to go through the formal complaint process. Since Ms C did not accept the 
informal offer, preferring the formal complaint route, I think AJ Bell are within their rights to 
withdraw the offer. 
Conclusion
So in summary I find that AJ Bell have acted fairly and I can see no evidence that they have 
done anything wrong.
I am not going to ask them to pay Ms C any redress. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint against AJ Bell Management 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman