DRN-2726978
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) has 
undervalued his vehicle when it was deemed a total loss after an accident. 
What happened
Mr Ks vehicle was written off following a total loss claim. Advantage placed a value of 
£9,214 on his vehicle. This included a deduction of £300 as there was no valid MOT on the 
vehicle at the time of the accident.
But Mr K says this is a very low valuation based on the current market price. He also says 
that as the UK was in lockdown, garages were closed, and he was unable to get an MOT on 
his vehicle. When they reopened, he couldnt get an appointment, and he says its unfair to 
penalise him for this. 
Mr K also asked Advantage to return the salvage and pay him the difference. Advantage has 
placed a retention value of £3,220 on the salvage. But Mr K says this salvage value is too 
high, and hes asked Advantage to explain this to him. But he says Advantage ignored this 
request. 
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint. The investigator was satisfied that 
the valuation placed on the vehicle by Advantage after the deduction for no MOT was fair. 
The investigator also said the salvage valuation was fair and didnt uphold the complaint. 
But Mr K doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr K is unhappy with the valuation that Advantage has placed on his vehicle. In the file notes 
provided I can see that he asked Advantage for £12,000.
Our approach is to consider whether Advantage has settled Mr Ks claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of his policy, fairly and reasonably. So, I have considered the terms of 
the policy and the offer made in order to determine whether Advantage has acted fairly. I can 
see that in the event the van cant be repaired, Advantage wont pay more than the market 
value of the van at the time of the loss.
Market Value is defined as The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time
the loss or damage occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This 
may not necessarily be the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your 
Insurer may use publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will 
make any necessary allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the 
circumstances in which you bought it.
Our usual approach to complaints about vehicle valuations is to look at motor trade guides 
for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and 
auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This 
takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage. 
If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its reasonable 
to ignore it. This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. We wouldnt normally place as much weight on 
adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair. Differences in mileage or year of registration 
can significantly affect value, and sometimes the vehicle actually ends up selling for a lower 
price than advertised. Adverts may be helpful if the complaint involves a classic or rare 
model. Or if they strongly indicate that the guides could be wrong. 
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Mr Ks vehicle at the time of the incident 
and they produced the following valuations: 
CAP: £9,514 
Glasss: £9,210 
Cazana: £9,244 
Advantage has placed a value of £9,514 on Mr Ks vehicle. And I can see that this is the 
highest valuation listed in the trade guides. I havent been provided with anything else to 
indicate that this valuation might be unfair. So, looking at the three guide prices together, our 
approach would be to say this valuation is fair. And as such, Im satisfied that the market 
value that Advantage has placed on Mr Ks vehicle is fair and reasonable. 
However, Advantage has deducted £300 from this because the vehicle had no current MOT. 
Mr K says his ability to obtain an MOT was affected by the national lockdown, and he 
couldnt get an appointment. 
I sympathise with Mr Ks situation. The MOT on his vehicle ran out during the national 
lockdown, and garages and MOT Centres were closed. However, they did reopen in August 
2020. And even if it was difficult to get an appointment, Mr Ks accident was four months 
later. So, I think this gave him enough time to rearrange or make an alternative appointment. 
But whether the vehicle had an MOT or not, the terms and conditions state that Advantage 
will only ever pay the market value. And a vehicle with no MOT will have a lower market 
value than one that has an MOT.
Advantage has provided us with a copy of the vehicles MOT from January 2021, an MOT 
that was carried out after the accident. The vehicle failed this particular MOT and I can see 
there are a number of issues that needed immediate repair. All anti-roll bar linkages are 
listed as worn, along with both front suspension ball joints. And as the failings listed are all 
listed as worn, theyre unlikely to have been accident related. So, its likely that Mr K 
wouldve had a financial outlay in order to bring his vehicle up to an MOT standard of 
roadworthiness. The trade guides are based on prices obtained for vehicles sold in 
roadworthy condition. And vehicles without an MOT will usually sell under the market value, 
especially one thats been expired for so long. So, I think its fair that Advantage reduce the 
pre-accident value to reflect this. Advantage says it would usually deduct 10% from the valuation for not having a valid MOT. 
That wouldve equated to a deduction of approximately £950. I think a blanket 10% 
deduction across the board for no MOT on a vehicle can sometimes mean the deduction can 
get disproportionate. So, Im happy to see that Advantage only actually deducted £300 in 
this instance. I think based on the number of issues listed for immediate repair on the MOT, 
a £300 deduction is fair. And because of this, I wont be asking Advantage to do any more. 
Mr K has also raised a question about the value Advantage has placed on the salvage of his 
vehicle, also known as the retention value. He says most other insurers would place a 20% 
or 30% value on the salvage, and that Advantage have placed a retention value of more 
than 35% on his vehicle, and this isnt fair. 
Ive calculated the retention value and its just under 35% (34.9%). This is just inside the 
tolerance of what we would consider fair. I need to consider each case on its own individual 
merits. So, I need to consider the commercial arrangement Advantage has with its salvage 
agents and whether the price placed on the salvage is having too great an impact on a 
consumer who wants to keep their damaged car.
Advantage has provided us with the salvage calculator it uses, and I can see that there are 
no errors in the calculation. I cant provide this evidence to Mr K, as it is commercially 
sensitive. But Im satisfied that the retention value has been calculated correctly, and given 
the actual valuation placed on the vehicle, Im satisfied that the valuation placed on the 
salvage of just under 35% of this valuation is fair. 
So, Advantage has approached the valuation of Mr Ks vehicle fairly. The deduction for the 
MOT is less than what it couldve been, so its also considered fair, and the value placed on 
the retention value or salvage is within the tolerances of what we would consider fair. 
Because of this I think Advantage has treated Mr K fairly and I wont be asking Advantage to 
do any more.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman