DRN-3304856
The complaint
Miss O brings this complaint on behalf of her mother, Mrs O and the estate of her late father, 
Mr O. She says that Aviva Insurance Limited has paid out a smaller sum assured than it 
should have after a claim was made under her parents whole of life policy. Miss O also says 
that Aviva has made numerous administrative failings. 
To resolve the complaint, Miss O wants Aviva to honour the policys original sum assured 
and to put processes in place to ensure that other vulnerable families are not treated poorly. 
What happened
The policy was originally taken out by Mrs O and her late husband in 1988, with Sun Life. It 
offered them £50,000 of cover and a £20 monthly premium. The policy was sold by a third 
party financial adviser from Eresko Ltd.  
The policy was later taken over by Friends Life, and most recently, Aviva.  
In the intervening years, the financial adviser also changed businesses several times, from 
Eresko Ltd to DBS Financial Management Ltd, Southwood Financial Management Ltd, and 
finally Destini Southwood Financial Planning Ltd.  
In early 2020, Mr O sadly passed away. With Miss O as her representative, Mrs O made a 
claim to Aviva and forms were issued to her in May 2020.  
In November 2020, Aviva paid the claim. It paid £7783.30, which was the total of the policys 
£7,740 sum assured at the time the claim was made, plus a refund of premiums and interest.  
Mrs O complained. She said they had expected the claim value to be £50,000. She said that 
if this had changed, Aviva could have tried to contact her and Mr O using their bank account 
details. Miss O also said on her behalf that Mr and Mrs O were never made aware of any 
policy reviews, and they would have taken action to protect their sum assured if theyd 
known about the reduction.  
Aviva rejected the complaint in November 2020. It said it had acted in accordance with Mr 
and Mrs Os policy terms in reducing the sum assured upon review. Therefore the claim 
value was correct. In 1995, it noted Mr and Mrs Os address was marked as gone away. It 
was not liable for the fact Mr and Mrs O had moved without updating their address, and it 
had written to the relevant representative advisers instead. No correspondence issued to the 
representatives was returned undelivered, so Aviva hadnt done anything wrong nor should it 
have known if it wasnt received. 
Aviva did recognise that Mrs O had been caused upset and sent her £500 compensation. 
Miss O said she and Mrs O disagreed with the complaint outcome. She made a number of 
further points via telephone regarding their unhappiness with Avivas processes. 
In December 2020, Aviva told Miss O it could no longer correspond with her about her 
concerns as no agreement could be reached. 
The complaint was therefore lodged with this service. Miss O explained that Mr and Mrs O 
had always believed their policy had a sum assured of £50,000. Though Aviva wrote to the 
financial advisers, by this time that business had dissolved. Finally, she explained that Mr O 
held other policies with Aviva so it had the means to contact him if needs be. 
The complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. She concluded that it should 
not be upheld. 
Our investigator said that she understood the shock Mrs O and Miss O felt when they 
realised the policys sum assured was less than they expected. However, Aviva was not 
given Mr and Mrs Os address when they moved home after the policy was taken out and it 
had been instructed to write to their representatives as a first point of contact.  
She also explained that Aviva was not responsible for the changes of nominated 
representatives either. She was satisfied that Aviva had made repeated efforts to update the 
current representatives at each review period with any changes to the policy. It had 
managed and operated the policy in line with the terms relating to reviews.  
Finally, she recognised that Miss O and Mrs O had been caused upset by Aviva when trying 
to settle the claim under the policy. But she felt Avivas offer of £500 was a reasonable 
amount in the circumstances and she did not think it should pay any other compensation.  
Miss O said she and Mrs O disagreed. She made a number of further comments, noting that:
they do not agree that Aviva has done everything it could to ensure Mr and Mrs O 
knew their policys sum assured had reduced;
given the employment she undertakes in a similar industry, Miss O has a good 
understanding of compliance and best practice for data handling;
she questioned Avivas practices regarding returned correspondence and felt it 
should be put to proof regarding any policies it has for post that is returned as 
undelivered;
she feels good practice would include telephoning the customer where post is 
returned;
if this had happened, Mr and Mrs O would have been able to take action over the 
policy reviews because their telephone number had never changed;
instead, Aviva just kept taking premium payments which Mrs O and Miss O feel is 
unacceptable;
instead it could have stopped or returned the payment  again, this would have 
alerted Mr and Mrs O to the fact the policy required some action;
they also disagree that Avivas compensation for poor administrative practices was 
fair;
Miss O was promised contact or responses countless times and then ignored;
and she was sent a letter for a different customer in breach of data protection laws;
they therefore do not have any faith in Aviva or its processes;
they also now question the basis on which the policy was taken out;
they do not feel the length of policy, monthly payments and eventual pay out were 
acceptable;
had Mr O not passed away, the policy would eventually cost more in premiums than it 
could return in a sum assured;;
Mr and Mrs O took out the policy to protect their family and it has failed in that 
objective;
Miss O also questioned the fairness of this type of policy, where the cost versus 
value eventually means the policy is worthless;the findings of the investigator did not highlight the many errors of Aviva such as 
messing them around, handing their claims incorrectly and making shallow 
apologies;
these actions should result in compensation for the mental distress they have both 
been caused;
they feel like Aviva has simply been sided with in order for our investigator to close 
their complaint as quickly as possible;
they wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this complaint has awaited an 
ombudsmans decision. I also send Miss O and Mrs O my condolences  I realise things 
have been difficult for them. Though I realise my decision will not be what theyve hoped for, 
I am also of the view that this complaint should not succeed. Ill explain my reasons below.  
I realise that in the course of responding to this complaint Miss O has said she and Mrs O 
have now had cause to question what they were told when the policy was sold in 1988. Miss 
O has specifically asked whether the policy was fit for purpose based on the amount Mr and 
Mrs O paid in premiums versus the eventual claim payment. But Aviva did not provide 
advice or sell the policy to Mr and Mrs O. Any complaint about the advice to take out the 
policy needs to be directed to the business responsible for the sale of the policy.  
I can see that both our investigator and Aviva have set out for Mrs O and Miss O how the 
whole of life policy worked. As it was reviewable, this meant that the premium was only set 
for the first ten years, after which reviews were carried out periodically in line with the policy 
terms. The purpose of a review was to test whether the policy was able to continue providing 
the chosen level of life cover, looking at the investment value and performance, mortality 
rates, and projections for future investment performance. If the policy wasnt sustainable at 
the current premium then Aviva (or the previous businesses operating the policy) could ask 
Mr and Mrs O to reduce the sum assured or increasing the premium  again, in accordance 
with the policy terms.  
So, I dont find Aviva (or Sun Life and Friends Life before it) to have acted unfairly in 
conducting the reviews. Where the issue has sadly arisen is that it has communicated with 
Mr and Mrs Os chosen servicing agent at the relevant times for sending correspondence. 
Aviva did know Mr and Mrs O were no longer at their address in 1995, because by that time 
an annual statement had been returned undelivered. Its because of this it issued the first 
review paperwork to Southwood as the representative in 1998 with gone away marked next 
to Mr and Mrs Os recorded address. At that time, it was assumed the premium would 
sustain the sum assured for a further (approximate) 16 years and the next ten year review 
passed on that basis. 
Though I know Miss O feels strongly to the contrary, I dont believe it was unfair for the 
businesses to communicate with Mr and Mrs Os representatives at the relevant times. The 
adviser businesses had changed successively but were active at all of the relevant times 
and therefore it was reasonable to write to them. Mr and Mrs O had not contacted Sun Life 
to explain they had moved away or told it they no longer had a representative. And the policy 
application did not include a telephone number, just a postal address. 
I dont believe Aviva is liable for the fact Mr and Mrs O moved home. And by the time of the warnings (in 2010 and 2011) which explained that the policy would fail a review within the 
next year or two (it eventually had the sum assured reduced in 2013) Friends Life had told 
the representative what would happen and to inform Mr and Mrs O accordingly. 
Friends Life also included a specific letter to Mr and Mrs O within the August 2013 review 
correspondence explaining how it had no address for them and asking for it to be updated. It 
provided this to the representative at that time (Destini) for it to notify Mr and Mrs O.  
Aviva and its predecessor businesses were never informed by any of the four businesses 
about Mr and Mrs Os change of address. The letters sent to the various businesses were 
correctly addressed and I dont believe on balance that this correspondence was not 
received. Aviva (Friends Life) therefore operated the policy appropriately based on its usual 
step of reducing the sum assured without a response, in line with the policy terms. 
I therefore dont consider that Aviva has done anything wrong in meeting the claim Miss O 
and Mrs O made by paying the sum assured which had been set from August 2013 and 
applied at the time of the claim. It is understandably upsetting for Miss O and Mrs O that 
correspondence wasnt properly passed from any of the representative businesses to Mr or 
Mrs O. But that is not something Aviva or its predecessors could have been involved in.  
I recognise Miss O feels the policys premium payment could have been stopped but it would 
not be fair for Aviva to have ceased the direct debit and removed Mr and Mrs Os cover 
without a reasonable basis to end the policy; and it would have been contrary to the terms to 
do so. Its responsibility was to maintain and provide the policy, including by undertaking 
reviews until such time that the claim was made. And it has done so.  
I appreciate that in 2011 Mr O took out a policy with BUPA which had his updated address 
and Miss O feels this information could have been cross-referenced. But, Aviva has 
explained that though SunLife and BUPA were part of the same group of companies at that 
time, each operated independently. That meant each business had its own policy records 
and administration. Neither had access to policyholders private information nor would either 
of them be able to amend records on behalf of the other. I dont find this to be unreasonable; 
data was not shared across the two businesses  and Aviva could not proactively assume 
BUPA had correct address details for Mr O or know what the position was with Mrs O. 
Finally, I realise that Miss O remains unhappy with how Aviva has handled both the claim 
and complaint. However, even if I were to agree that a payment of compensation was 
appropriate (which in this case I do not), I couldnt propose any payment of the upset caused 
to Miss O. That is not to say I dont recognise how distressing the claim process was for her, 
but I do not have a free hand to make an award of that type directly to Miss O. I know this 
seems confusing, but our rules do not allow it.
We are bound by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules which apply to this service as set out 
in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. An ombudsman is not able to avoid the rules 
or apply discretion to certain rules. Complaints that are made to this service must be 
pursued by an eligible complainant (for example, a consumer or a micro-enterprise) and 
those complaints must be about acts or omissions by businesses when carrying out certain 
regulated activities  in this case, Avivas operation of the whole of life policy. 
A specific rule (DISP rule 2.7.2 R) allows a third party to bring a complaint on behalf of an 
eligible complainant to this service, for example from an appointed representative or from an 
executor of an estate for an eligible complainant that has since passed away. However, that 
does not mean the representative is an eligible complainant in their own right.  
Though this service can make further awards for the distress a business has caused in relation to a complaint (DISP 3.7.2 R), and whilst a complaint can be made to this service by 
a representative on behalf of the eligible complainant (or the estate of a complainant that has 
passed away), that does not confer the right to receive a money award to the representative.
In any event, I believe that the £500 paid to Mrs O by Aviva was an appropriate amount. I 
would not look to award any further compensation -if I were able to do so - as I feel this 
amount does fairly reflect the circumstances of the upset and distress caused at the time.
My final decision
I do realise my decision will be disappointing for Mrs O and Miss O. But for the reasons 
given, I cannot uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and the 
estate of Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman