DRN-3853869
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) is now responsible for the sale of this policy so Ive 
referred to HSBC as the seller throughout this decision. 
Mr and Mrs W say HSBC mis-sold them the PPI. 
Background 
Mr and Mrs W applied for a mortgage in 1998. At this time, a PPI policy was also sold to 
them. Mr and Mrs W say that they were not aware that PPI had been sold to them and they 
did not need or want it. Mr and Mrs W say that if either one of them was unable to work, the 
other party would have been able to meet the repayments due under the mortgage. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint but did not think there was enough evidence that 
the PPI had been mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They reiterated that they did not want PPI and were not aware 
that they had it. Whilst they recall the meeting at which they applied for their mortgage; at no 
time did they agree to the PPI. Mr and Mrs W added that they keep all the paperwork 
relating to their mortgage and have never received any documentation regarding the PPI. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
A long time has passed since Mr and Mrs W bought this PPI policy so there isnt much 
documentation available from the time of sale. Where there is limited information available, I 
have to decide what I think is more likely based on the evidence available, including Mr and 
Mrs Ws testimony. 
Mr and Mrs W applied for their mortgage during a meeting with HSBC. HSBC says PPI was 
sold to them alongside the mortgage at this meeting. However Mr and Mrs W dont agree, as 
they say they didnt agree to take out PPI. 
Ive seen a copy of a report HSBC prepared after the financial planning meeting. HSBC 
recorded the information it obtained about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances and the 
recommendations it made after discussing their needs. This included recommending they 
take PPI. It notes the cost and the benefit of the PPI provided on there. Nothing Ive seen on 
this report indicates the PPI was compulsory. Mr and Mrs W then signed a declaration 
confirming the information and recommendations recorded on the financial planning review 
meeting document was accurate and that they had received information about each product 
theyd purchased. These documents appear to have been prepared and signed before the 
policy was actually set up. 
Ive seen a copy of a letter they were sent dated 18 September 1998, and this appears to 
confirm HSBC recommended the PPI and Mr and Mrs W had chosen to take joint cover. 
The report and letter indicate PPI was discussed to some degree and Mr and Mrs W chose 
to accept HSBCs recommendation and take out joint cover. The policy subsequently 
appears to have been set up in October 1998. 
Usually, when customers apply for a mortgage and other insurance products such as PPI, 
we would see further documents such as a mortgage application form (with a separate 
section for PPI), or a separate PPI application form altogether. These would give a clear 
indication of the information Mr and Mrs W were given at the point of sale and evidence of 
what they had agreed to. However, as explained above, given how long ago this sale took 
place, all the documents relating to the sale are no longer available. I dont think thats 
unreasonable given how long ago the policy was sold. So I must decide what I think is more 
likely. 
Id like to re-assure Mr and Mrs W that I have thought carefully about their testimony, and I 
appreciate their strength of feeling regarding this matter. But overall, based on what Ive 
seen, I havent seen or heard enough to make me think its more likely HSBC didnt make it 
clear that PPI was optional, or that Mr and Mrs W didnt agree to have it.  
As mentioned above, HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check the 
PPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example, they were eligible for the policy and they werent affected by 
any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mr and Mrs W seem to have had a need for the cover. Both Mr and Mrs W were employed. 
Mrs W says she was entitled to at least 6 months sick pay, while Mr W doesnt recall what he 
was entitled to. The financial planning review document indicates he received statutory sick 
pay. Mr and Mrs W also said Mr W had a significant amount of savings that could have been 
used to meet their mortgage repayments if theyd been unable to work.  But this PPI policy 
wouldve paid out on top their sick pay for up to 12 months if Mr or Mrs W were unable to 
work because of illness or injury. It also provided 12 months of cover for unemployment. This 
policy would have left their savings available for them to use on other essential expenditure 
at what could have been a difficult time financially. So I think the PPI couldve been useful for 
them.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I havent seen enough evidence that they didnt choose to take cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment  the 
consequence of not being able to make repayments can be serious. Based on everything 
Ive seen, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs W off 
taking out the cover.
Overall, while I appreciate this is likely to be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W, I dont think this 
policy was mis-sold. My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman