DRN-4198822
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was unable to access his Nationwide Building Society accounts.
What happened
Mr P says his Nationwide banking application (app) and account card stopped working in 
June 2022. He says he had no access to his money and was caused a significant level of 
stress as well as inconvenience. Mr P says he was forced to open new accounts with a 
different business and would like £2,500 compensation for what took place. He also says he 
was sent a new card but that also didnt work and has been charged overdraft fees.
Nationwide says it didnt apply a block to Mr Ps accounts but says he was trying to access 
online banking with an expired account card. It says it tried to help Mr P with the app 
problem but says it has no record of any app issues. Nationwide accepts it didnt deal with all 
Mr Ps complaint points in its response and has paid £25 compensation. It says it charged 
overdraft fees correctly.
Mr P brought his complaint to us, and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
recommended Nationwide increase its compensation offer to £75 for that part of the 
complaint. But didnt think it had made a mistake about the account access. The investigator 
thought the initial problem was caused by Mr P using an expired account card and overdraft 
charges are clearly visible on the account statements.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and says his accounts are still open and Nationwide has 
charged overdraft fees. He says he was concerned about fraud and has closed his childrens 
accounts.
Nationwide says it will pay the further £50 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator and for 
largely the same reasons. I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by my decision and can see 
he has been told which parts of his complaint that I can deal with.
I have looked carefully at Nationwides records and think on balance that part of the access 
problem was caused by Mr P using an expired account card. I appreciate Mr P may not have 
realised that but that is not something I can fairly hold Nationwide responsible for. Im 
satisfied that Nationwide didnt apply any blocks on Mr Ps accounts. And I have not seen 
any evidence that Nationwide caused Mr Ps account access problems. Having read the 
transcript of the call between the parties I think Nationwide tried to help Mr P with the access 
problem.
In any event, whilst I appreciate Mr P says he was unable to use his banking app, I think he 
would have been able to attend a Nationwide branch and withdraw money. And I can see 
that he was able to use a different method of making payments at the time. I accept there 
will be unanswered questions about what took place in or around June 2022 that this service 
is unable to answer but I hope Mr P appreciates why, without any evidence of a Nationwide 
mistake that I cant fairly hold it responsible.
There is no dispute that Nationwide didnt deal with parts of Mr Ps complaint appropriately 
and I can see its fairly apologised as well as paying £25 compensation. Nationwide has 
agreed with the investigator that it should pay a further £50 compensation and Im satisfied 
that is a fair and reasonable award for that part of the complaint. I dont think that is the main 
part of Mr Ps complaint and dont think the impact of it justifies further compensation. Mr P 
didnt suffer any financial loss as result of that mistake, and it amounted mainly to a lack of 
detail in Nationwides response.
Im satisfied that regardless of any access problems Mr P says he had, that he was 
responsible for managing his accounts. And am satisfied that if the account became 
overdrawn then Mr P is responsible for any charges. I think Mr P would have received 
account statements and ought reasonably to have been aware of his account balance and 
spending. It follows that I dont think Nationwide made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
applying overdraft charges in these circumstances which would have been applied in line 
with agreed account terms and conditions.
Overall, I dont uphold the main parts of this complaint, and so cant fairly direct Nationwide 
pay Mr P £2,500 compensation as he would like.
Putting things right
Nationwide should pay the further £50 compensation it has agreed to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Nationwide Building Society 
to pay Mr P a further £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman