DRN-4291434
The complaint
The estate of Mr B1, represented by its executors, Mr B and Mr H, has complained about the 
estates property insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited, because Ageas has declined a claim for 
water damage on the grounds it believes the property was unoccupied.
What happened
Mr B had been living at the property insured to care for his father. His father passed away in 
April 2022. In December 2022, Mr B was visiting family in Europe when the gardener for the 
property noticed water coming from the upstairs bathroom and called Mr B. Mr B had a 
friend visit and switch off the water. He made a claim to Ageas.
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster and a drying company, the latter to start clearing and drying 
the property. But the loss adjuster thought the electricity usage at the property was low and 
noted that no council tax was being paid  so Ageas declined the claim on the basis the 
property was unoccupied.
Mr B said that was unfair  he did live at the property, it was his UK residence and the usage 
was only low compared to when his father was alive because of their different needs. He 
said no council tax was being paid due to probate being ongoing  not because the property 
was unoccupied. When Ageas wouldnt change its view, Mr B and Mr H, as executors, 
complained on the estates behalf to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator considered further evidence from Mr B about his use of the property, but felt 
Ageas evidence was more compelling. So he thought Ageas decline of the claim had been 
fair and reasonable.  
Mr B did not agree with the findings. He maintained he had been living at the property. The 
complaint was referred to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I felt minded to uphold the complaint; that, for three reasons, it was unfair and unreasonable 
for Ageas to rely on the unoccupancy exclusion to decline the claim. I felt Ageas should be 
progressing the claim but wasnt minded to award compensation for upset. So I issued a 
provisional decision to explain my findings to both parties. 
Following receipt of my provisional decision; Ageas said that it had nothing further to add, 
that it accepted it. Mr B indicated that the estate was generally in agreement with the 
findings. But clarified that, although the estate was not really looking for compensation, it had 
been inconvenienced by incurring costs for commencing repairs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Ageas did not reserve its rights
Ageas knew when the claim was made and it appointed the loss adjuster, that there was a 
potential bar to the claim being successful  that the property might have been unoccupied. 
It asked the loss adjuster to investigate this. The loss adjuster did so. But it also appointed a 
drying restoration company to complete initial work at the property. And, in doing that, the 
executors were not told that this was on a reserved basis only  that Ageas liability had not 
been accepted and it was reserving its right to decline the claim if it transpired the property 
was unoccupied. Ageas knew of a potential reason for decline, but it went ahead regardless 
and entered into a contract for repair of the property. Having entered into a contract to repair 
the property, without any caveat or caution as to rights, Ageas, in my view, waived its right to 
later rely on the unoccupancy exclusion to decline the claim.
The unoccupancy status was considered against the wrong term
Even if Ageas can convince me Im wrong regarding the above, I think the specifics of the 
unoccupancy were considered against incorrect policy wording. Ageas put the task of 
assessing the unoccupancy with the loss adjuster. And the loss adjusters file shows its 
focus was on whether the home was unoccupied for more than 30 days, that Mr B had 
stayed and slept in the house for at least three days a week, every week, rather than just 
visiting to check on the home. But that is not the policy wording which applied to the cover in 
place for the estate.
The policy wording which applied to the estate considers the home to be unoccupied if it isnt 
lived in for more than 60 days in a row, there is no reference to the home having to be 
stayed in weekly for x number of nights. So the loss adjusters conclusion that the home was 
likely unoccupied is flawed because it has considered that against the wrong wording.
I appreciate that Ageas has used the correct wording in its final response. The final response 
confirms the claim decline based on the unoccupancy stands based on the findings of the 
loss adjuster. But, in that respect, no allowance or explanation is given as to why the flawed 
conclusion of the loss adjuster still applies given the correct policy wording. It seems 
unreasonable for me to say Ageas has shown it can fairly and reasonably rely on the 
exclusion to decline the claim when those it tasked with investigating the issue did not 
assess or apply the correct wording.
Council tax and electricity usage
I note though that Ageas, when applying the correct policy wording in its final response, 
referenced two findings in particular from the loss adjuster  an exemption for council tax 
and low electricity usage. Seemingly Ageas thinks these still show the property was 
unoccupied ie not lived in (or intended to be lived in) for more than 60 days in a row. Ageas 
final response letter does not mention the other data Mr B has provided with a view to 
evidencing he was living in the home regularly. Nor does it mention his explanation of why 
there was an exemption and low usage. 
I think Mr B has adequately explained that he did not live at the property full-time. And in 
terms of the unoccupancy exclusion he did not need to. The wording of the policy definition 
and exclusion relate to a circumstance where the property is vacant for more than 60 days. 
So, Mr B could stay away from the property for up to 60 days with it only becoming 
unoccupied if, on day 61, there is still no-one living there.
Mr Bs explained how he spent his time at the house, living mostly in two rooms. That might 
well account for low electricity usage. Ive seen photos of the property  they show some 
furnishings and contents; beds, side tables, lamps, framed pictures on the walls and books. 
I can also see there were cleaning products in both the bathroom and the kitchen. Along with 
what appear to be toiletry bottles over the bath and cups on the drainer in the kitchen, with 
small appliances such as a toaster and kettle on the side too. I see that one bed does appear to have some bedding on it, that there are clothes in the wardrobe and many 
personal effects in the sitting room, as well as a small tv or monitor. I think the sitting room 
was being used regularly by Mr B. I think Mr B was living there at least some of the time. Ive 
not seen anything persuasive regarding the contents of the house or the electricity usage 
which makes me think it was unoccupied. As such, I think that Ageas view, that it hadnt 
been lived in, at the time of the incident, for more than 60 days in a row, is unfair and 
unreasonable.
Mr B has been able to show some receipts from purchases for goods and/or services when 
he was in the area of the property. They dont show conclusively he was staying or living at 
the property. So, taken alone, I could see why Ageas might have felt they didnt show 
occupancy. But there is a receipt for emptying the septic tank in November 2022 and Mr Bs 
motor insurance is registered for the insured property. Adding all this detail to the photos of 
the house further persuades me that Mr B was likely living there during the 60 days before 
the incident. It follows that it also further persuades me that Ageas view, that it hadnt been 
lived in, at the time of the incident, for more than 60 days in a row, is unfair and 
unreasonable.
I have to acknowledge though that there is a council tax exemption for the property. Mr B 
has explained that is because the property is in probate. And I can see that is the case. But 
I can also see that a probate exemption is granted where the council considers the property, 
during probate, to be unoccupied. The exemption has been given to the estate. So I can see 
Ageas concern that this, by default, means the property is unoccupied. However, Ageas 
hasnt shown that the councils definition of unoccupied matches its definition. And this is 
important because Ageas policy sets out definitions for terms and phrases which it wants to 
give special meaning to, other than a normal everyday meaning. It isnt clear if, when the 
council considers whether a property is unoccupied it applies a normal meaning to that, or 
something specific. But Ageas hasnt shown that the council uses the same definition or 
measure for unoccupancy that it does. So the council deeming the property unoccupied for 
the purposes of council tax exemption does not necessarily mean it is unoccupied as per 
Ageas policy definition which applies to the exclusion it has sought to rely on to decline the 
claim. 
In summary then, the available evidence suggests the property was most likely occupied for 
some time at least, or on occasion, during the 60 days before the incident and the council 
tax exemption, in this situation, does not detract from or override that. Therefore, Im of the 
view that Ageas hasnt shown it has fairly and reasonably relied on the exclusion for 
unoccupancy to decline the claim.  
Compensation
I appreciate that this has been a difficult time for Mr B. However, the claim on the policy 
relates to the estate and he, and Mr H act in their role as executors in respect of the claim. 
They arent policyholders or complainants in their own right. The estate can be 
inconvenienced but it cant suffer distress. And I havent seen that the estate has been 
inconvenienced here. So, on this occasion, I wont award compensation.
As neither party objected to my findings, theres little more for me to add here. Id clarify 
though that financial outlay is considered separately to compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. And as Ageas is to progress the claim the estates cost for repair can be 
considered as part of that. Also as the estate reasonably had to move to repair because of 
Ageas unfair and unreasonable decline of the claim, Ageas wont reasonably be able to 
apply any policy terms to any claim settlement which relate to its claim outlay being limited to 
only what it would have cost it to repair.My provisional findings, along with my paragraph above, are now those of this, my final 
decision.
Putting things right
I require Ageas to progress the claim for water leak damage at the property, taking into 
account the remaining terms and conditions of the policy where appropriate, but bearing in 
mind that it has already entered into a contract to repair the property. It will not be able to 
rely on unoccupancy to limit or remove its liability for the loss. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B1 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman