DRN-3353865
The complaint
Mr T complains about the settlement U K Insurance Limited (UKI) offered under his motor 
insurance policy after his car was stolen. He wants it to increase its offer. 
What happened
Mr Ts car was stolen, and he made a claim on his policy. UKI offered him a settlement of 
£26,000, less his £200 policy excess, which it said was the cars market value at the time of 
its loss. But Mr T said he couldnt replace his car with a similar one for this amount. He said 
hed recently replaced the cars engine. He thought UKI should offer him a further £5,000. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She checked the 
motor trade guides we use for valuations of Mr Ts car. The valuations she found were less 
than UKIs offer. So she thought UKIs offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr T replied that UKIs valuation didnt take into account his cars condition. He said hed had 
a lot of work done on the car and provided invoices for this. He also provided examples of 
similar cars advertised for higher prices. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr T wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. I can see that his 
policy provides for its market value in the case of its loss. The investigator has explained this 
services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but look to 
whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought UKIs settlement offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked 
how she came to this conclusion. I can see that she found valuations for Mr Ts car in two of 
the motor trade guides we use. I can see that she checked for cars of the same make, 
model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ts car. In the absence of a reading, she calculated 
the mileage of Mr Ts car at the date of its loss as being 139,888, based on previous MOTs. I 
think that was fair and reasonable. 
The valuations our Investigator found were £16,650 and £23,555. UKIs engineer valued the 
car at £26,000. 
Mr T said hed spent money on a new gearbox and engine. But we consider this to be 
maintenance to keep the car roadworthy and it wouldnt affect the cars market value. Mr T 
also said he had fitted extras to the car. But we would only consider factory fitted options 
when looking at the market value. 
Mr T also provided examples of similar cars advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
UKI offered Mr T £26,000 in settlement of his claim. This is more than the valuations 
provided by the motor trade guides we use. So I think this offer is fair and reasonable. So I 
dont require UKI to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman