DRN-2484367
The complaint
Mr T complains about the valuation U K Insurance Limited (UKI) placed on his car after a 
claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ts car was damaged in an accident and UKI declared it to be beyond economical repair. 
It made Mr T an offer in settlement of his claim which it said was the cars market value. 
When Mr T thought this was too low, UKI increased its offer to £6,854, less the policy 
excess. But Mr T remained unhappy as hed found similar cars advertised for higher prices. 
He thought a replacement would cost £9,500. He also thought UKI should have offered him 
the cars salvage when the claim was settled. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had 
valued Mr Ts car correctly using the motor trade guides according to our approach. He 
thought its offer was within the range of the valuations provided by the trade guides. He 
thought UKI wasnt required by the policy terms and conditions to offer Mr T the cars 
salvage once the claim was settled. 
Mr T replied that he thought the cars condition would increase its valuation. He provided 
adverts of similar cars to his offered for sale at higher prices. He asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr T feels frustrated by UKIs decision. I can understand that he wants 
a fair settlement for the loss of his car. 
UKI offered Mr T a settlement for the market value of his car. I can see that this is defined in 
the policys terms and conditions as the cost of replacing the car with another of the same 
make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss. 
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought UKIs offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how he came 
to this conclusion. I can see that he checked the trade guides we use for cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ts car. So I think he took into account the 
cars low mileage, its good condition and its history. 
Mr T said hed seen similar cars advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
The settlement offered by UKI was within the range of the valuations the investigator found, 
albeit at the lower end of the range. But this is in keeping with our approach. So I cant say 
that UKIs offer was unfair or unreasonable. And I dont require it to increase this. 
Mr T told us that he thought he should have been offered the cars salvage when his claim 
was settled. I think that when a car is written off and deemed a total loss under a motor 
insurance policy, as Mr Ts car was, the insurer, in this case UKI, becomes the owner of the 
salvage only after the consumer accepts payment of the cars full market value. 
Our stance is that if the consumer asks to keep the salvage, we would expect the insurer to 
allow this. The car is, after all, the consumer's property and they should have the right to 
keep it if they wish to do so. However, in that event, the insurer is entitled to deduct from its 
settlement offer what it would have been able to sell the salvage for. 
I cant see that Mr T has complained directly to UKI about this. But our investigator did 
include this issue in his view and so I think both sides have had opportunity to consider this 
concern. I havent seen evidence that Mr T asked UKI to retain the cars salvage. And, as 
this hasnt affected the settlement he received, then I cant say that UKI has acted unfairly in 
not actively offering Mr T the cars salvage.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman