DRN-1608528
The complaint
Miss M complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined her pet insurance claim. My 
references to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Miss M took out a pet policy for her cat in February 2019. UKI is the insurer. In June 2019 
Miss M claimed for her cats vet treatment for gastroenteritis.
UKI reviewed the cats vet history, the cats usual treating vets emails to it and UKIs vet 
nurse spoke to the vet. UKI declined the claim as it said the cats symptoms were related to 
her pre-existing medical condition of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The policy didnt 
cover pre-existing conditions.
Miss M complained to us, she wants UKI to pay the claim. She said her cat had been 
diagnosed with IBD in 2014 which does flare up occasionally but her vets opinion was that  
the June 2019 condition was infectious gastroenteritis, not IBD. 
Our investigator said UKI unfairly declined the claim. She was persuaded by Miss Ms vets 
expert opinion that the claim wasnt for a pre-existing condition.
UKI disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It sent its further review of the medical 
evidence and generic research papers and information on the relevant symptoms and 
conditions. UKI said Miss Ms cats vet hadnt substantiated why the 2019 symptoms werent 
linked to the symptoms she was treated for before the policy started.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether UKI fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I dont think it did. 
I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy doesnt cover claims in connection with or arising from any pre-existing 
condition. The policy defines pre-existing condition as:
any condition or symptoms, or signs of injury or illness, that happen or exist in any 
form before the pet was covered by this insurance.
Miss Ms cats vet records show she has a history of gastro-intestinal symptoms which since 
2014 have been diagnosed as being due to IBD. In June 2019 the cat had some similar 
symptoms - vomiting, diarrhoea and increased body temperature - which are general 
symptoms she has when she has a flare up of IBD. On 9 June 2019 when the cat first saw a 
vet, who wasnt her usual vet but at the same practice, the vet notes say similar episode to 
before.
But Miss Ms cats usual treating vet, who has treated the cat for many years, is clear that 
she thinks the underlying cause of the June 2019 symptoms wasnt IBD. The vet told UKI 
that the cat had been treated for acute gastroenteritis. It is a new condition and not related 
to her previous (IBD). 
When UKI asked the vet for more evidence to support that the acute gastroenteritis and 
ongoing IBD were two separate conditions the vet said:
the cat presented on 09/06/19 vomiting and not eating. The following day she was 
admitted for further investigations as she was not responding to anti sickness 
medication. (the cat) was pyrexic ((temperature) 39.8) and had bloods taken. The 
bloods showed band neutrophils - these are indicative of an acute inflammatory 
change associated with a bacterial infection. Given the high temperature and blood 
changes it is my opinion this illness was caused by an infectious gastroenteritis, not 
(IBD). 
The usual treating vets opinion to UKI reflects the notes she made when she saw the cat on 
10 June. She noted suspect gastritis/ dehydration/ infection.
Ive listened to the call between the cats usual treating vet and UKIs vet nurse. UKI put its 
points as to why it thought the symptoms were due to IBD. The treating vet explained why 
the blood tests and the cats response to treatment indicted that the symptoms werent 
caused by IBD. UKIs vet nurse asked the treating vet how sure she was that the June 
symptoms were due to gastroenteritis and her response was that in her opinion it was. The 
vet added that she saw the cat a lot, knew what was normal for the cat and how she was 
affected and June was a different episode.
In the call UKI raised with the treating vet that Miss Ms cat is an indoor cat so UKI thought it 
unlikely a new viral or bacterial component caused the symptoms. The treating vet 
responded that bacteria or virus can still be brought indoors and being an indoor cat doesnt 
mean the cat cant get infectious gastroenteritis. The vet told UKI that the cat wasnt tested 
for bacterial infections as she got better and tests wouldnt be done for no reason.
Ive seen UKIs nurses detailed opinions as to why she doesnt agree with the treating vet. 
UKI has also sent general research information which it says supports its opinion. But Im 
more persuaded by evidence thats specific to Miss Ms cat than generic information.
I accept its possible the cats June 2019 symptoms were due to her pre-existing IBD. But 
the cats treating vet is a specialist in small animal practice who is very familiar with this 
specific cats pre-existing IBD. Given her evidence I think its more likely than not that the 
June 2019 symptoms werent due to the IBD but a different condition, the infectious 
gastroenteritis. 
For the above reasons I dont think UKI can fairly and reasonably rely on the policys 
exclusion for pre-existing conditions to decline the claim.
Putting things right
UKI must pay the claim, subject to the remaining policy terms and limits. If Miss M has 
already paid the vet costs UKI should add interest as detailed below.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Miss Ms claim subject to the remaining policy terms 
and limits. If Miss M has already paid the vet costs then interest* must be added to the claim 
payment at 8% simple a year from the date Miss M paid the vet to the date of settlement.
*If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman