DRN-2967075
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) was misrepresented.
What happened
On 25 May 2013, Mr M was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. He paid a £427 advance payment and the agreement was for £8,163 over 36 
months, with 35 monthly repayments of £150.83 and a final payment of £3,923.10. The 
agreement allowed for Mr M to travel 10,000 a year  30,000 miles over the full term of the 
agreement  without being charged for excess mileage.
Mr M terminated the agreement in April 2014, taking out a new agreement with VWFS on a 
new car. Mr M has complained that the supplying dealership understated his mileage 
requirements to match his budget, even though they were aware that he needed more than 
10,000 miles a year. Which resulted in a financial detriment when he ended the agreement.
VWFS didnt think theyd done anything wrong. Mr M had raised his complaint out of time  
more than six years after the event he was complaining about, and more than three years 
after he shouldve been reasonably aware that he had cause for complaint. However, in line 
with the Financial Conduct Authorities Dispute Resolution Rules, VWFS provided their 
consent for us to investigate this matter.
Our investigator said that, for misrepresentation to be present, a false statement of fact 
needs to have taken place. And that that false statement of fact induced Mr M to enter into 
an agreement he otherwise wouldnt have done. 
She also said that mileage limits have an effect on both the monthly repayments, and any 
final optional payment. And a higher mileage limit wouldve likely increased the monthly 
repayments and/or altered the final payment. 
From the evidence shed seen, the investigator said that the mileage allowed was clearly set 
out in the agreement, and that Mr M had the opportunity to read the agreement before he 
signed it. Whats more, by signing the agreement, Mr M agreed that hed read and 
understood the terms. Given this, she didnt think that any false statement of fact had been 
given. So, no misrepresentation had taken place.
Finally, the investigator said that Mr M had raised additional issues that hed not previously 
raised with VWFS. And, as we cant consider something when the financial business hasnt 
been given the opportunity to do so first, she wouldnt be commenting on these points.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. And hes asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
This is a complaint about misrepresentation. When considering misrepresentation Im 
looking at two things  whether there was a false statement of fact and, if there was, whether 
it was the false statement of fact that induced Mr M to choose the car.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr M signed on 23 May 2013. This agreement clearly 
stated that the maximum annual mileage is 10000 and the maximum total mileage is 30000. 
The excess Mileage Charge payable pursuant to clause 11 of the Terms is 4.4p (incl. VAT) 
per mile. Clause 11 explained how the mileage would be calculated in more detail if the 
agreement was terminated early, which was the case in this instance.
In signing this agreement, Mr M also agreed to be legally bound by the terms of the 
agreement, and that hed received a copy of the pre-contract agreement and the agreement 
itself. Ive seen that the agreement also gave Mr M a 14-day right to withdraw without having 
to give any reason.
While it may have been the case that the dealership understated the mileage Mr M said he 
wanted to do; the agreement that VWFS produced was clear that this was set at 10,000 
miles a year. And Mr M read and signed the agreement, in so doing he also agreed to the 
mileage limits VWFS set out for him. Because of this, Im satisfied that there was no false 
statement of fact by VWFS about how much mileage Mr M was allowed to do.
Whats more, Mr M had the opportunity to withdraw from the agreement within 14-days of 
signing it if he didnt agree with the mileage limits VWFS set. And he didnt do this.  Its for 
these reasons why I dont think the sale was misrepresented. And I wont be asking VWFS 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman