DRN-3275205
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) handled a 
claim they made on their building warranty.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R bought a new-build property that came with an NHBC warranty, which started 
in 2008. In the first two years Mr and Mrs R raised concerns with the builder about 
movement in the property, and NHBC eventually took over the claim. Around 2014, it was 
found that the property was suffering from heave related movement caused by a building 
defect, so NHBC carried out the repair work required under section two of its policy. To 
correct the defect NHBC carried out piled underpinning works to the foundations.
In 2016 and 2018, Mr and Mrs R reported further cracks in the property. They were 
concerned the foundations were still moving. In 2016, a period of monitoring took place and 
it was deemed the cracks were down to thermal movement, not subsidence. In 2018, 
following further contact from Mr and Mrs R, NHBC agreed to monitoring for a further period 
of 12 months initially. In September 2020, NHBC said the monitoring hadnt shown any 
foundation movement, so proposed to stop. During this monitoring period, Mr and Mrs R had 
also instructed their own surveyor (who Ill refer to as W), who was carrying out its own 
readings. W agreed there was likely no foundation movement, but it recommended some 
other repairs. He said there appeared to be a lack of masonry movement joints around the 
property, so these should be fitted. He also said helibar bed joint reinforcement should be 
installed to bridge internal cracking in the garage and other areas. And repairs should be 
carried out to corroded steel on the balcony structure. 
NHBC didnt agree to carry out these repairs, so Mr and Mrs R complained. They also asked 
that NHBC reimburse what they had paid for their surveyor. Initially NHBC refused to pay for 
any invoices after October 2019. It said invoices were paid prior to that on the assumption 
the surveyor was assisting with other repairs not related to the monitoring. It said Mr and Mrs 
R hadnt needed to instruct their own surveyor to carry out monitoring readings, as it was 
already doing it. But it later accepted it would pay 50% of the fees from July 2020, as a 
gesture of goodwill. But NHBC didnt agree to change its position on any repairs. Unhappy 
with its response, Mr and Mrs R referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think NHBC needed to carry out the repairs recommended by Mr and 
Mrs Rs surveyor, she thought the corroded steel couldnt be considered as a complaint 
about it had been brought too late. And she thought the surveyors comments on helibars 
and movement joints were new, but didnt think there was cover for these repairs under the 
policy. She also thought NHBCs offer in relation to the fees, was fair. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept what our investigator said and provided extensive information in 
relation to their points. Having reviewed this, our investigator thought NHBC should pay 
100% of the invoice from July 2021 (£1,305), rather than the 50% it had offered. But she still 
didnt think NHBC needed to carry out any further repairs relating to the cracks in the 
property. 
NHBC didnt accept to pay the extra amount, as it said it had been clear no further invoices 
would be paid unless agreed in advance with NHBC. 
Mr and Mrs R also asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary their main points were:
NHBC should be responsible for installing helibars as it was recommended in 2014 
as part of the previous repair.
NHBC should be responsible for the repair works needed to the cracking in the 
property. 
Other issues relating to the investigators findings on the steel supports and movement joints 
were accepted by Mr and Mrs R. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a long running claim and Mr and Mrs R have raised several issues with NHBC during 
that time. But the things Im considering as part of this decision are whether NHBC needs to 
carry out repairs to Mr and Mrs Rs property in line with its surveyors report of July 2020, 
and whether NHBC should be liable to pay all of Mr and Mrs Rs surveyors fees. And whilst 
Ive read everything provided by both [parties, I wont comment on each piece of evidence, 
but instead will focus on the key reasons for reaching the decision I have. 
As Mr and Mrs R accepted the investigators position regarding the corroded steel, I havent 
considered this further. But in order to provide a full response on the movement and repairs, 
I have made my own findings on whether movement joints should now be installed by 
NHBC.
Movement in the property
Its not in doubt that Mr and Mrs Rs property suffered foundation movement, which was 
repaired around 2014. So Ive considered whether the cracks that have appeared since 2018 
are related to the original repair from NHBC, and if not, whether there is any cover under the 
policy for them. 
A period of monitoring has been carried out by both NHBC and Mr and Mrs Rs surveyor, a 
number of monitoring points were installed, and both crack and level monitoring took place 
for around 12 months. Having considered the reports from Mr and Mrs Rs surveyor, and 
NHBC, Im satisfied that the most likely cause of the damage in Mr and Mrs Rs home is as a 
result of thermal movement. 
NHBC says the movement in the monitoring points was minimal over the monitoring period, 
which doesnt support an issue with the foundations. And whilst one of the monitoring points 
showed some movement, the conclusion of its surveyor in October 2020 was:
Given the extremes in precipitation and temperature over this period, a small 
variation in level (0.7mm) is an entirely expected response of the ground and/or 
structure and not indicative of abnormal foundation movement in my view.
This seems to me to be a reasonable position for NHBC to take. And its view on the 
monitoring is broadly supported by Cs surveyor, W, whose own conclusions in December 
2020 were:
we would agree that the results indicate that the building does not appear to be 
suffering from significant foundation movement.
There seems to be some agreement that thermal movement is the most likely cause. NHBC 
hasnt agreed to carry out the remedial work recommended by W as it says thermal 
movement isnt covered under section three of the policy, which is what these cracks would 
fall under, given when they were reported (i.e. after the first two years of the policy). Having reviewed NHBCs policy, I agree that damage caused by thermal movement isnt covered by 
section three of the NHBC policy, so I consider NHBCs position on this to be fair and 
reasonable in declining a claim under this section.  
Mr and Mrs R say the addition of movement joints and helibars should be carried out by 
NHBC as they argue the helibars, in particular, should have been included in the original 
repair in 2014 as they were part of the schedule of works. So they dont accept this is new 
damage or a new claim, and say it shows NHBCs repair in 2014 wasnt done as it should 
have been. And so it should now carry out these works under the same section as before 
(i.e. under section two).
With reference to the movement joints, Mr and Mrs R say as laypeople, they couldnt have 
known within the first two years of the policy that they hadnt been installed, and this has 
only come to light due to the involvement of W. And W has told them movement joints are an 
NHBC technical requirement in new-builds such as theirs. 
Having reviewed everything, I dont think it has been shown NHBC does need to carry out 
the installation of helibars or movement joints. To explain why, Ive firstly set out how the 
NHBC policy works within the first two years. 
For defects or damage within the first two years of the policy, NHBC offers a resolution 
service. This means NHBC will carry out a report to identify faults on a newbuild home, as 
well as decide what needs to be done to fix them. The resolution service isnt a regulated 
activity  which means it isnt something this service has the power to consider. So 
complaints about what faults were/werent identified as part of this, dont come under the 
remit of this service. 
It seems to me that Mr and Mrs R and their surveyor, W, have said movement joints should 
have been installed as part of the repair, as they are part of the technical requirements for 
new build homes with a construction similar to Mr and Mrs Rs. That might be the case, but I 
cant see that movement joints, or a lack thereof, formed part of the resolution report carried 
out by NHBC. So I cant see it identified movement joints as an issue with the property as 
part of the resolution service. But because I cant look at complaints about any faults that 
may not have been mentioned in the resolution report, I dont have the power to consider 
this further. 
However, I can see that as part of the resolution report, helibars were to be included in the 
repairs to the property, once the foundation work had been done. W has asked NHBC to 
confirm where it installed helibars. I cant see that NHBC has provided a response to this. 
But my understanding is that helibars are installed where cracks have appeared, as a way of 
stitching the masonry back together. And it seems to me that this is what the resolution 
report allowed for, rather than installing helibars at other points to reinforce the property. 
Having reviewed the reports, monitoring and comments from both NHBC and W, Im not 
satisfied that its been shown that NHBC didnt install any helibars as it set out in 2014, and 
that a lack of helibars is the cause of the new cracks in the property. It seems to me that W 
thinks NHBC should install further helibars to stabilise cracks to the property that have come 
about since the repairs in 2014. But Id only expect NHBC to do that if it was shown that the 
cracks were as a result of ground movement relating to the repair it carried out. And as Im 
persuaded any movement is most likely as a result of thermal movement, and not NHBCs 
repair, it follows NHBC doesnt have to carry out any further work. 
Invoices
NHBC has paid a number of invoices for W, as it agreed it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs R 
to want some independent advice, given the issues theyd had with the property. NHBC says 
it told Mr and Mrs R in 2019 that it wouldnt pay for W to carry out monitoring to the property, 
as it was already doing so. However, I can then see it did agree to cover payments relating 
to the monitoring into 2020. Whether or not that was a mistake on the part of NHBC, I think its reasonable that it did that. W had installed additional monitoring points, and it seems to 
me that because of government lockdowns due to the covid-19 pandemic, NHBC did agree 
for W to continue monitoring some areas for a period of time. 
In June 2020, NHBC paid an invoice from W for around £800. This invoice was for 
monitoring. Shortly after, on 29 July 2020, it said it had reviewed the invoices being 
submitted and it wouldnt agree to reimburse any other work carried out by W. I think NHBC 
made a reasonable decision at this stage, as it seems by this point it was reviewing the 
same monitoring as W, so I wouldnt expect it to pay two parties to carry out the same work.
But NHBC did later agree to pay around £650, which was a 50% contribution towards an 
invoice dated 31 July 2020, as this was for work carried out in June 2020. Having reviewed 
everything, I agree with our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for NHBC to pay 
the full invoice amount of £1,305, less the amount its already paid. I say this because the 
work being claimed for in this invoice was carried out in June 2020, before NHBC had made 
clear it wouldnt reimburse any further invoices. 
There is a final invoice dated August 2021 for around £300. I understand Mr and Mrs R 
didnt expect to have any further amounts to pay, but I dont think this means NHBC should 
reimburse the amount. It seems accepted by Mr and Mrs R that some of the work claimed 
for in this invoice was done in August 2020. So Im satisfied NHBC had been clear this 
wouldnt be covered. Mr R says even though it was dated after NHBCs decision, it did link to 
some work from July 2020. But overall Im not going to ask NHBC to pay this final invoice as 
it hadnt agreed it in advance and I think NHBCs overall position of not paying for more work 
from July 2020, was a reasonable one.
My final decision
My final decision is that National House-Building Council needs to pay a further £653 to 
resolve this complaint. 
It also needs to add 8% simple interest on this amount, from the date the relevant invoice 
was paid, until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman