DRN-3575693
The complaint
B is a limited company and is unhappy with how a claim was handled by Great Lakes 
Insurance SE under a landlords property insurance policy.
What happened
B has a property and lets it out to tenants. They had legal expenses insurance with rent
guarantee cover. One of the tenants (Ill call A) failed to pay rent and so B wanted to make a
claim under the policy. Great Lakes refused to pay the claim because it said B hadnt
complied with due diligence tenancy checks as required by the policy.
Great Lakes cancelled the policy and gave a refund. It did so because it believed the 
property was let on a house of multiple occupancy (HMO) basis whereas the policy only 
covered the property under a single tenancy agreement (such as a family residing there). 
Great Lakes reached this conclusion because a claim had been made under the same policy 
previously for a different tenant who occupied a different room to A. B didnt accept what 
Great Lakes said.
Our investigator made the following observations:
Great Lakes had given little detail to B on how it reached the conclusion on HMO so 
he thought it should pay £50 distress and inconvenience. And if the HMO conclusion 
was wrong then compensation should be increased by another £250.
The policy included under a section Important Policy Conditions various conditions 
to be complied with at the start of the policy including the following:
oTwo forms of tenant identification (including photographic).
oRecent utility bill or bank statement.
oRecent credit check.
oSatisfactory references (employer and last landlord or another referee if not
available).
oIn the absence of a response to enquiries or doubt as to integrity or financial
standing B must obtain Great Lakes approval prior to the commencement of
the letting.
As the policy was sold by a broker Great Lakes should provide B with the brokers 
status such as if the broker was agent of Great Lakes.
If the broker was Great Lakes agent and arranged a defective policy, then Great 
Lakes may be responsible for any mis-sale allegation.
Fully detail the basis for asserting the property was occupied on an HMO basis.
Great Lakes disagreed with the investigators opinion and so the matter was referred to
an ombudsman. B didnt respond and hasnt complained about the policy being cancelled. 
I sent the parties a provisional decision setting out why I wasnt minded to uphold Bs 
complaint as I thought Great Lakes had acted fairly.
B didnt agree saying the policy application clearly stated multiple tenants and the claim is for 
legal expenses to pursue a claim and not for rent guarantee. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint B brought to us concerned a claim for unpaid rent and they consider the
policy should have provided legal expenses cover to pursue that claim. So, Im satisfied this 
captures Bs response to my provisional decision.
Industry rules require Great Lakes to:
handle claims promptly and fairly
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress
not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed
It is a requirement of the policy that for cover to bite certain conditions must be complied
with at the start of the tenancy around identification and background checks of a tenant.
Those main elements are outlined in bullet points in the What happened section above.
Whats apparent from the information weve been provided with by B and Great Lakes is that
B hadnt obtained two forms of identification, nor a recent utility bill or bank statement, nor
employer and / or landlord references. And in the absence of this information, B didnt seek
Great Lakes approval prior to the tenancy starting. So, Im satisfied Great Lakes has been
fair to say the policy conditions werent complied with by B.
In thinking carefully about whether it was reasonable to reject the claim, Im mindful that the
policy is worded in such a way that the conditions must be complied with for cover to be
valid. And that was expressed clearly in the policy. Ive considered whether it would be
reasonable to require Great Lakes to pay the claim. But Im mindful that a reason why
insurers require checks and validation to be carried out on prospective tenants is because
they bear the risk of liability where tenants dont pay rent. Its not, in my view, unfair for Great
Lakes to expect landlords to carry out certain tenancy checks as outlined in the policy. I dont
think the policy conditions on checks are onerous for a prudent landlord letting out their
property and expecting financial payment in return.
In all the circumstances, given the absence of checks that didnt comply with the policy
conditions, Im satisfied Great Lakes fairly rejected Bs claim.
On the HMO part Im satisfied Great Lakes has sufficiently set out to B why it believes the
property is let on such a basis. As tenancy states BY THIS AGREEMENT the Landlord lets
and the Tenant takes front room on second floor in the building known as [address]. I also
note that the property address is registered on a borough council HMO register (publicly
available online) from 2017 to April 2022 so was a licensed HMO at the sale of the policy
and its duration. Im satisfied this demonstrates its more likely than not that the property was
let on an HMO basis. And Great Lakes explained to B that there was also a previous claim at
the same address for a different tenant with a separate tenancy. Its noteworthy on this point 
that in their reply to my provisional decision, B appears to accept that the policy was bought for HMO licence holder. So, its somewhat surprising B challenged Great Lakes on the issue 
of whether it was an HMO during the claim.
Great Lakes says the policy only covers one residence that is occupied under one tenancy
agreement and therefore the policy is unsuitable for an HMO. I dont need to look at this
issue because its not part of Bs complaint and I note B received a full refund for the policy.
If B considers the policy to have been mis-sold they will need to revert to the business that
sold the policy in the first place. I would make it clear that the reason Bs claim was
declined related solely to the fact that they didnt meet the conditions required for cover to
bite regarding identity and background checks of tenant A.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman