DRN-4024621
The complaint
Miss H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc gave her a loan that she couldnt 
afford to repay.
What happened
In 2018, Miss H was an existing customer of NatWest and she applied for a new loan with it 
to help her consolidate borrowing she held elsewhere. NatWest granted the loan over a six 
year term with monthly payments of just over £234.
A few years later Miss H complained to NatWest, saying that it should never have provided 
this loan as she couldnt afford to repay it. She said that if NatWest had performed proper 
checks then it would have seen that this was the case. Miss H highlighted that she was 
consistently using her overdraft in the time leading up to the loan application and that shed 
increased the limit on this on several occasions in the same time.
NatWest responded to Miss H saying that it fully assessed her income and expenditure at 
the time and this showed that the loan to refinance existing borrowing was affordable. Miss 
H disagreed and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and felt that NatWest hadnt performed 
reasonable or proportionate checks into Miss Hs finances when it provided the loan. So they 
looked at whether, if NatWest had performed more reasonable and proportionate checks, 
that this would have changed things. Our investigator didnt think things would be different 
though  and thought that NatWest would still have lent because what it would have 
uncovered would have still shown that the loan was affordable.
Miss H disagreed. She felt that the investigators conclusions that NatWest hadnt checked 
affordability as it should, yet still meant it was fair to provide the loan were contradictory. She 
also restated that she was consistently in her overdraft in the period leading up to the loan 
and explained more about her overall financial situation. So the complaint was passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, the relevant rules here mean that NatWest should have 
performed reasonable and proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Miss H in the 
circumstances. So Ive firstly considered this.
Having done so, I dont think NatWest did complete checks that were in line with the rules 
here. NatWest seems to have taken Miss Hs declared income  which its worth noting 
looks to have been £2,000 a month rather than the £2,500 it said she declared. Then it 
seems to have made an estimate of her expenditure of around £871 along with £443 for 
rent. Its worth saying that Miss Hs actual average income in the months leading to the loan 
being taken looks to have been closer to around £2,700 and her expenditure to have been 
around £2,300 in the months leading to the application
But, Miss H was a NatWest customer and so it held more information about her than it would 
for someone who wasnt its customer. In these circumstances, I think it should have been 
aware that Miss H was  as she points out  making frequent use of her overdraft which she 
had increased on several occasions leading up to the loan application. A lot of her income 
was also made up of payments from individuals. So I think NatWest should have made a 
more detailed and personal assessment of Miss Hs circumstances before agreeing to lend 
to her.
That doesnt mean that the lending itself was automatically unaffordable or irresponsible 
though. As a service, we have to be impartial and fair to both sides. So what I now need to 
consider is whether, had NatWest done further checks, would it still have provided this loan 
as a reasonable lender?
The first thing to consider here is the purpose of the loan. From what Ive seen, Miss H took 
this loan out largely to repay borrowing held elsewhere, such as a number of store cards and 
two overdrafts held with NatWest. One of these overdrafts was the one that Miss H herself 
has raised as an issue in her correspondence about this complaint.
The evidence shows that the money from the loan was used for this purpose too. This 
means that Miss H would have been able to repay borrowing held elsewhere at higher 
interest rates. Then this loan would have provided her a structured way of repaying these 
debts at a way that lowered her monthly payments overall. The evidence here supports that 
this loan would have reduced the payments to these debts from £280 each month to a single 
payment of £234 to this loan. That seems to be something that would have helped Miss H on 
a monthly basis.
So, accepting that these store card accounts and overdrafts would have been repaid from 
the loan  then based on what Ive seen, I think any checks NatWest did would have 
revealed that this loan would have been affordable.
I say this because Miss Hs regular income around the time of the loan being provided, 
including some benefits, looks to have been on average around £2,700 a month and her 
regular expenditure was around £2,300 a month. This figure excludes the repayments that 
Miss H was making to the lending that this loan was intended to consolidate. That means 
that Miss H would have looked to have still had around £400 of disposable income each 
month after this loan was approved. This being the case, Im satisfied that if NatWest 
performed further checks, they would have shown this loan as being affordable. So it follows 
that I dont think it was unfair for NatWest to have lent here.
It's clear that Miss H began to use her authorised and unauthorised overdraft again very 
quickly after the loan was granted. The statements show that there was a lot of non-essential 
spending after the loan was given, which looks to have contributed to this being the case. I 
dont think this would have been foreseeable for NatWest though, where this happened after 
the loan was taken out.
Miss H has told us and NatWest about her financial difficulties. Im sorry to hear about this, 
but as our investigator mentioned  if Miss H is struggling to repay what she owes NatWest, 
then she should contact it and tell it about her situation. NatWest should then see what it can 
do to treat her positively and sympathetically.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman