DRN-3073801
The complaint
Miss M complains that because of mistakes made by St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP) she has paid around £14,000 tax on a pension withdrawal, that she 
shouldnt have.
What happened
I set out the background to this decision and my provisional findings on 16 September. Ive 
included this below in full and this forms part of this decision:
Before the event complained of, Miss M had been previously given advice by her financial adviser 
who was part of the SJP group  acting as an SJP partner IFA. And she had consolidated some of 
her pension pots and setup a personal pension with SJP.
In early 2019 Miss M wished to access some of her pension funds to help pay for property upgrades.
In April 2019  SJP sent Miss M a letter setting out the retirement options available to her:
It also said:
And:
Miss M filled in the forms and returned them to SJP. 
Miss M also ticked two boxes to say that she had sought advice from a financial adviser and that she 
had taken advice from Pension Wise on her retirement options.
Miss M then received her £34,873.94 as Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS) but only 
25% of this was tax free cash  the remaining 75% was taxed and this additional income pushed Miss 
M into a higher tax bracket.
Miss M was unhappy about this at the time and I understand she spoke to SJPs complaint 
department. It was then that it became clear to all that Miss M had only wanted to receive the tax-free 
cash and nothing more. SJP records show it was explained that to have done this, she wouldve had 
to transfer into a drawdown arrangement. And that this was explained on the forms. Miss M didnt 
think this was clear enough.
Miss M also complained about the timescales involved and that the processes involved caused 
delays. Miss M didnt want to take advice so risk warnings had to be issued. Miss M pointed out that 
this couldve been done with the original forms rather than afterwards, to save time.
Miss M then wished to take make a further withdrawal in September. She let her IFA at SJP know  
who acknowledged this and said hed call SJP admin to make sure the request is processed quickly. 
Miss M replied she hadnt filled the forms in yet but that she just wanted to let him know to avoid 
delays.
Miss M completed the forms and submitted them again selecting option F, the same option selected in 
the first withdrawal. Miss M had asked to withdraw just under £27,000. Under the option she had 
selected she would receive 25% of that figure as tax free cash and the remaining 75% would be 
taxed. This UFPLS option was what caused Miss M to complain prior.
After Miss M submitted the forms to SJP its client care admin team contacted her, mistakenly thinking 
that she was an SJP partner IFA, and said it had noticed the withdrawal amount of just under £27,000 
was exactly 25% of the remaining fund. So it questioned if the client (Miss M) had in fact wished to 
only take 25% tax free cash and not a UFPLS. Miss M responded and SJP said that could only be 
done as drawdown  Miss M then said take this as my instruction to go into drawdown.
Miss M then emailed her IFA and says she has been told that to carry out this process she needs him, 
her SJP partner IFA, to fill in the forms for her. The IFA says hell get onto it immediately and he was 
trying to locate the correct forms.
The IFA said hed like to contact Miss M as he would need to take her through the advice process as 
the transfer into drawdown required that. Miss M said she was working late a shift but shed sent all 
the forms to him to complete. The IFA then said he would do all the work at his end.
Further delays occurred but Miss M was then paid her tax free cash in the way that she had intended. 
Later Miss M complained to SJP about the additional tax she had paid and the delays caused in 
receiving the payments. SJP said it was not at fault for the additional tax as it had paid Miss M what 
shed requested on the form. But it accepted it had delayed matters in reference to the second 
transfer and offered £150 D&I. A third withdrawal was also made in February 2020 and £100 was 
offered there for delays in processing the payment.
Miss M was unhappy with this and one of our investigators looked into matters. They were of the 
opinion that SJP wasnt responsible for the additional taxation.
Miss M was unhappy with the investigation and felt it had been flawed and biased towards the 
business. She made a number of points, which Ill address in my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Before I start, Id like to offer further apologies to Miss M for the quality of service she has been 
provided so far. Ive looked at this case afresh and Ill set out the key/relevant points as clearly as I 
can. It appears our investigation and communication with Miss M has caused further confusion and 
some mis-understandings, which Ill endeavour to put right.
Miss M has raised a number of points and I hope my findings will make it clearer what occurred and 
when.
The first withdrawal submitted in April 2019
Miss M has made it clear the key part of her complaint is the additional tax she paid, which she 
believes was the fault of SJP. However, after looking at the available evidence Im afraid I dont agree 
SJP was at fault here. Ill explain why below.
Miss M had an SJP partner IFA and her pension plan was administered by SJP (for ease of reference 
Ill refer to her SJP IFA as her IFA and the wider group just as SJP). Miss M contacted SJP saying 
she wished to make a withdrawal from her pension. The evidence weve received shows (records of 
conversations with the SJP complaint team and Miss Ms actions in completing the forms  risk 
warnings being sent to her) that Miss M didnt wish to take advice on this matter. It appears any 
contact with her IFA was after shed already submitted the forms to make the withdrawal.
So I think its fair to say that Miss M didnt take advice. Miss M did tick on her forms shed received 
advice from her IFA and Pension Wise. This appears to be a mistake on her part (perhaps mistakenly 
thinking this needed to be ticked to proceed as she was in a hurry to receive the funds). Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest she did receive advice from either. And Miss M hasnt told us she received 
advice  shes told us she dealt directly with head office (SJP) every time. 
SJP provided a list of fees paid by Miss M which we shared with her and she is of the belief she paid 
for advice on the first transaction after looking at this. However, the payment she refers to in May for 
approximately £930 was an early withdrawal charge and not a payment for advice. I believe the early 
withdrawal charge is to cover product fees that would otherwise have been paid had the money 
remained invested.This all means that Miss M is responsible for the options chosen and as shes told us she completed 
the forms herself. Its clear now that Miss M didnt wish to have the UFPLS option. This is what 
caused her the additional taxation as only 25% of this option is tax-free cash. However, unfortunately 
this is what she selected and then the SJP admin team carried out her instructions and paid her what 
she had requested (after delays).
Miss M later raised this with SJP and said that she didnt think the information shed been given made 
this clear enough. But looking at the form she filled in, the option she chose clearly says including 
25% tax free cash. Not that the whole payment would be as tax-free cash. The letter she received 
with the forms strongly recommended that Miss M seek advice either through her IFA or Pension 
Wise. And that if she had any questions she could contact her SJP partner IFA. But it seems that Miss 
M went ahead and completed the forms herself without asking questions or seeking advice.
Unfortunately the result of this is that Miss M didnt receive the money in the way that she had wanted. 
And she ended up with a large tax bill. Miss M believes that SJP are responsible for this but I dont 
agree. It was Miss M that made the choices and filled in the forms  SJP paid her as shed requested. 
I appreciate Miss M made a mistake and this wasnt what she wanted. But she didnt seek advice or 
ask any specific questions from her IFA about this withdrawal so I dont think SJP can reasonably be 
held responsible. Miss M chose the non-advised process despite being strongly advised to seek 
advice and unfortunately this choice resulted in her picking an option she didnt intend.
Miss M has explained that she believes SJP are responsible because the second withdrawal process 
where she did the same, ended up with a different result  she was paid just tax-free cash as she 
wished.
The difference the second time round was because when Miss M submitted her forms to SJP, one of 
the client admin team picked up on the fact that the figure requested was exactly 25% of the fund. 
And asked questions of Miss M (although believing she was an SJP partner IFA) which then led to 
Miss M requesting to move to drawdown which is the option she actually wanted. Had the SJP 
member of staff not realised this the same result wouldve occurred again. And Miss M wouldve paid 
tax on 75% of her fund. So this being picked up saved Miss M a further large tax bill.
SJPs client admin team role was simply to process the forms and payments. However, it just so 
happened that this member of staff picked this up and was pro-active and asked further questions. 
This didnt occur in the first withdrawal but I dont think that means SJP did anything wrong. It had no 
obligation to ask questions its role was one of administration. It was entitled to believe that what Miss 
M had requested is what she actually wanted. Whilst the withdrawal figure was exactly 25% the first 
time round as well, I think its understandable given the context of the situation that this wasnt picked 
up. Their role isnt to question the motives or intentions of the customers just to make sure payment is 
made in-line with those instructions.
I hope that explains more clearly why Miss M got the payment she required on the second withdrawal 
but not the first.
So whilst I sympathise with Miss Ms situation, I dont think SJP is responsible for the fact she took out 
a UFPLS with tax on 75%, rather than transferring to flexi-access drawdown and receiving 25% tax 
free cash only.
Did her IFA intervene and request a full withdrawal rather than just 25% tax free cash
Miss M is of the belief that her SJP partner IFA intervened to say that she wished to have a full 
withdrawal including 75% being taxed (UFPLS) rather than just tax-free cash. This isnt the case  
had it been so I think the complaint should rightly be upheld. But the investigator unfortunately got this 
wrong and has mis-understood the evidence and/or poorly explained their point. 
The evidence this point was drawn from was the second withdrawal so not where the additional 
taxation was suffered. And this was just an internal email where the IFA had requested an illustration 
for Miss M and had received an incorrect illustration. He then re-requested it and presumably received the correct illustration as the payment was processed and in the way in which Miss M wished it to be 
done so  as a flexi access drawdown payment. After receiving the first illustration which was 
presumably on the UFPLS option with 75% taxed, the IFA in fact said the client has requested full tax-
free cash. So the IFA was re-requesting the illustration on the correct basis, tax-free cash only.
Miss M also believes that her IFA shouldve filled in the forms all the way along and it was this failure 
to do so that caused her tax loss in the first withdrawal. However, this isnt correct in a non-advised 
process the forms can be completed by the customer. The reason her IFA became involved in the 
second withdrawal was because the move into drawdown required an advised process and hence the 
involvement of the IFA.
Other issues Miss M has raised during the course of the complaint
During the course of this complaint, Miss M has also raised questions about the advisers role and the 
fees she has paid to him. Miss M expects that we should review these fees paid and decide whether 
these were appropriate. However, this isnt the complaint that was submitted to the service. If Miss M 
wishes to complain about the fees shes paid shell first need to complain to SJP and give it a chance 
to address this issue. 
Our role is to consider the complaint submitted to us and after the business has been given a chance 
to put things right before it reaches us. Miss Ms complaint submitted was about the additional tax she 
paid. Ive looked at the advisers conduct in regards to the additional tax bill she received. But as Ive 
explained this was a non-advised sale and I dont think the adviser was responsible. The adviser 
being paid fees for the second withdrawal (where there was no additional tax liability as Miss M 
received only tax-free cash) is a separate complaint point and will need to be raised first with SJP.
For Miss Ms information, I can confirm looking at information, only the second withdrawal (where SJP 
intervened and Miss M received the tax-free cash as she wished) was treated as an advised sale. And 
Miss M paid advice fees and seemingly ongoing commission was setup from this sale. 
I appreciate Miss M will be disappointed with my provisional decision. But I hope it explains clearly 
why I cannot fairly hold SJP responsible for the unfortunate and unintended UFPLS withdrawal which 
brought about the tax bill.
In response to my provisional decision, neither party made further substantive comment. 
Miss M said she accepted the decision but wished to make a separate complaint about the 
adviser fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disagreed or raised further points following my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to depart from it. The reasons given for my decision are set out in full above. 
In conclusion, SJP is not responsible for the additional tax bill Miss M received. 
Unfortunately, she selected a withdrawal option that wasnt what she required. But as the 
sale was non-advised, her choices were her responsibility.
My final decision
I do not uphold this decision and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman