DRN-2322264
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that through the failure of HSBC UK Bank Plc, they didnt secure 
the tracker rate mortgage product on their house mortgage that they were looking for. Mr 
and Mrs B want compensation for losing out on it  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B owned a house that had a mortgage with HSBC. Mr B also had a flat that had 
a mortgage with another lender. Mr B met with a HSBC adviser on 24 January 2020. HSBC 
says that a plan was then agreed the outlines of which were:
1. The flat was to be remortgaged from the existing lender to HSBC after 25 March 
when the existing lenders mortgage product ended. The proposed HSBC mortgage 
was at an initial tracker rate of 0.64% plus BoE base rate which was a rate of 1.39% 
at that time.
2. That remortgage would release £75,000 which would be used to pay down HSBCs 
loan on the house to bring the LTV down to 60%.
3. On 5 April when the existing tracker rate on the house came to an end, it would be 
replaced by a new tracker rate product of 0.64% plus the BoE base rate.
Mr and Mrs B say that they agreed to remortgage the flat and take out a new rate with HSBC 
but were unaware that money was need from the remortgage to reduce the LTV. They say 
that if extra money was needed to bring down the LTV, they could have paid it from their 
own resources.
But the plan set out above didnt work out as intended. An issue arose about the ownership 
of the flat. Mr and Mrs B say that they told the HSBC adviser it was in Mr Bs name only. The 
mortgage adviser says he was told it was in joint names. As the remortgage on the flat 
wasnt progressing and the deadline of April was approaching, Mr B instructed the adviser to 
progress the rate switch on the house if the remortgage hadnt happened by 20 March.
Although Mr and Mrs B say they were assured that the remortgage was progressing there 
was a delay which Mr and Mrs B say was caused by either HSBC or its solicitors. Mr and 
Mrs B say they were forced into accepting a two-year fixed rate mortgage product on the 
house with HSBC. Mr and Mrs B also remortgaged the flat with HSBC at the end of April.
HSBC says that the tracker rate was withdrawn on 24 March before the remortgage money 
was released so it couldnt offer the tracker rate product on the house that it had discussed 
with Mr and Mrs B in January. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered to waive the product fee on 
the fixed rate product of £999. On reviewing the case HSBC accepted that there was delay 
in completing the remortgage and that it would pay the extra interest that Mr and Mrs B paid 
of £134.64 and £150 compensation because of problems caused in the re-mortgage of the 
flat.
Our investigator thought that the renewed compensation offer by HSBC was fair as the only 
delay caused by HSBC, he could account for, was in April. Mr and Mrs B disagreed saying in 
summary that the adviser hadnt acted on they had instructed.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their assistance in this complaint and the further information theyve 
provided. Mr and Mrs B were happy on tracker rates and wanted to renew the mortgage 
product on their house on a tracker rate.
 
Ive referred in the background above to a plan agreed between Mr and Mrs B and the 
mortgage adviser at a meeting in January. I believe that the evidence indicates that Mr and 
Mrs B were in agreement with the plan that the adviser suggested at that meeting and Ill 
explain how I came to that conclusion below. The plan involved an amount of sequencing, 
partly because new rates couldnt be taken out until the old ones expire. So, if the plan was 
to work, the remortgage of the flat couldnt take place before the 25 March otherwise there 
would be an early repayment charge (ERC). Similarly, the new interest rate on the house 
couldnt be put in place until after the 5 April. Although, Mr and Mrs B had access to other 
funds, and could have used these to pay down the loan on the house as an overpayment, 
they went along with the mortgage advisers plan. This wasnt an unreasonable plan and 
from the vantage point of January 2020 all this seemed entirely possible, but it didnt 
happen.
The first thing that was to happen was to be a remortgage of the flat. That would release 
money to pay down the LTV on the residential property. So, it seems that after that meeting, 
HSBC processed an application for a remortgage on the flat. But the application for the new 
mortgage product on their house wasnt started. That was because the second application 
required the remortgage monies to be released to pay down £70,000 or £75,000 of the loan - 
Ive seen both figures mentioned - on the residential property.
I note that a mortgage offer for the flat issued on 6 February 2020. But the mortgage offer 
was in joint names. On 7 February Mr B emailed HSBC to say, just realised that flat is 
registered in my sole name.  That being the case, it seems that going back to January, its 
likely that the HSBC adviser was told that the flat was in joint names hence the mortgage 
offer was in joint names. I believe that Mr B is incorrect in saying in his email to us of 18 
October that HSBC knew from the beginning that the flat was in his sole name,  On the 
same date,7 February, Mr B emails HSBC and refers to telling their solicitors to transfer 
£70,000 from the flat remortgage to reduce the loan on the residential property. That 
indicates to me that Mr and Mrs B were on board with the plan. Although they may have had 
their own resources to pay down the loan money, they were happy to utilise the money from 
the remortgage when it came.
Mr Bs realisation that the flat was still in his sole name at the beginning of February left him 
with an issue as to whether the flat should be in sole or joint names but then decided that it 
should remain as it was. After Mr B identified the problem by email on 7 February, the 
mortgage adviser responds with a possible solution on 17 February about sole ownership of 
property, joint mortgage and independent legal advice. The email asks Mr B to please let 
me know how he wishes to proceed. 
Im not entirely clear why there was a delay between February and March in HSBC clarifying 
how it wanted to proceed with the remortgage of the flat. From looking at the email traffic there seems to have been a lack of clarity within HSBC as to how to deal with the new 
situation of Mr B being sole owner of the flat and as to whether Mrs B should be a joint 
mortgage holder or simply sign a document with independent legal advice. I note that in its 
submission to us HSBC accepts that there was a delay in the re-mortgage and has offered 
compensation for that. 
The delay was clearly an inconvenience to Mr and Mrs B. The significant factor Ive looked at 
is whether the delay caused Mr and Mrs B to miss out on the tracker rate for their mortgage 
switch and I cant fairly say that such was the case. The critical date for the plan to work 
smoothly was the 25 March after which the money from the remortgage could be released 
and transferred to the residential loan and Mr and Mrs B could then apply for the mortgage 
product at the tracker rate. But things changed on 24 March 2020 when HSBC removed its 
tracker rates.  
As I understand it, that decision was related to the Covid-19 crisis and the banks response 
to uncertainty about future movements in interest rates and clearly a bank should be able to 
adjust its interest rates. I believe that its unreasonable to have expected the adviser either to 
anticipate the crisis or the banks response. But the removal of the tracker rates broke a vital 
link in the January plan as it was now irrelevant in securing a tracker rate if there was a 
delay with the remortgage as there was no longer a tracker rate available for the proposed 
house mortgage. So, the delay in effecting the remortgage didnt deprive Mr and Mrs B of a 
tracker rate on the residential property. An earlier re-mortgage wouldnt have helped as it 
would have sparked an ERC. It was the unanticipated withdrawal of the tracker rate that 
upset the plans. But the delay did mean that Mr and Mrs B were also on their lenders SVR 
for a period.
My view of this complaint is that there was a delay in remortgaging the flat where I believe 
the fault lies with HSBC. Mr and Mrs B eventually went onto the tracker rate for the re-
mortgage that they wanted. I understand this remained available as Mr and Mrs B had paid a 
booking fee in January for this when applying for the remortgage. Unfortunately, as it turned 
out, the mortgage product for the house couldnt be booked at that time or indeed until the 
loan had reduced showing a diminished LTV when Mr and Mrs B would have qualified for 
that product. This I hope explains an issue that Mr and Mrs B raised as to why they were still 
able to get a tracker rate on the remortgage which didnt complete until after March but 
werent able to get a tracker rate mortgage product on the house.
So, Mr and Mrs B should be compensated for their financial loss suffered because of the 
delay in remortgaging the flat, being the difference between their existing lenders SVR and 
HSBC tracker rate for the period they were on it. I dont find the delay caused Mr and Mrs B 
to miss out on the tracker rate for the new mortgage product on the house. I also dont find 
HSBC at fault for Mr and Mrs B missing out on the tracker rate for the house mortgage. 
Given that, I consider that HSBCs revised offer provides fair compensation for Mr and Mrs 
B.  We would expect HSBC to compensate Mr and Mrs B for any financial loss in the delay 
on the remortgage which it has now offered, and an amount for their trouble and upset of 
£150 which seems appropriate together with waiving the product fee of £999. As HSBC 
amended their offer of compensation to Mr and Mrs B after the complaint was brought to us, 
as is our practice, I will be upholding this complaint.
There is one other issue I wish to deal with. On 28 January the adviser wrote to Mr B saying 
that the remortgage of the flat could take up to 8 weeks. Mr B responded to say that if the re-
mortgage money wasnt through by 20 March, he would ask his existing lender for the 
money and look to HSBC for the tracker rate product on the house. I can see that this has 
caused Mr B some annoyance as he believes the adviser didnt act on his instructions. The 
remortgage wasnt through by 20 March but if Mr and Mrs B wanted the tracker rate on the 
mortgage product on the house, they would still have had to reduce the loan by £70,000, or thereabouts, presumably after remortgaging with their existing lender as they appear to be 
suggesting in that email. But in that scenario, that remortgage with their existing lender was 
a matter for them to organise as the adviser was a HSBC mortgage adviser and it wasnt his 
call to organise a mortgage with another lender. I have noted the email from the mortgage 
adviser of 30 March saying that he would keep an eye on the existing mortgages, but I cant 
say that this was any commitment from HSBC to meet Mr and Mrs Bs wishes to have a 
tracker rate on their house mortgage.
 
Putting things right
HSBC UK PLC should waive the £999 product fee and pay the extra interest that Mr and Mrs 
B paid of £134.64. It should also pay compensation to Mr and Mrs B of £150 for their trouble 
and upset.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman