DRN-3132941
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) unfairly declined his 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Admiral involved throughout the claim but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Admiral.
What happened
Mr A noticed a crack in the windscreen of his car. He contacted Admiral to make a claim on 
his motor insurance policy. Mr A requested that the replacement glass was provided by the 
car manufacturer.
On the call the Admiral representative confirmed to Mr A that approval was given for car 
manufacturer glass to be fitted. He booked an appointment for the repair to be undertaken.
Prior to the appointment the repairer contacted Mr A and said that Admiral had declined the 
repair to be completed with the car manufacturer glass.
Mr A was unhappy that he had been told he would get car manufacturer glass for the 
windscreen replacement, so he complained to Admiral.
After listening to the phone call Mr A had with its call handler Admiral apologised and said 
the call handler had made a mistake and incorrectly advised he would be getting car 
manufacturer glass. It said that due to the age of his car that this was incorrect, and the 
repair would be with glass of a similar standard and quality but under the terms of the policy 
it did not have to be replaced with his car manufacturer glass.
Admiral offered Mr A £100 in compensation for the incorrect information that he was given 
and the delay it caused for repairs.
As Mr A was not happy with Admiral he brought his complaint to our service. He said as 
Admiral had confirmed that car manufacturer glass would be used it should honour what it 
had said on the phone call.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and felt that Admiral 
had not acted unreasonably as it had accepted and offered compensation to Mr A for its 
error and the misinformation given and that it had acted within the terms of his policy.
As Mr A is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at Mr As policy documentation to understand what it details about windscreen glass 
replacement. 
Within the policy booklet it states - Cover for your windscreen - If we need to replace any 
glass, we may use glass which is not provided by the vehicles manufacturer but is of a 
similar standard and quality. If there is no glass available and it cannot be reasonably 
sourced, we will pay the cost shown in the manufacturers latest price guide, together with 
reasonable fitting costs.
I think this is clearly explained within the policy booklet and there is nothing else within the 
policy documentation that could cause confusion about the type of glass that will be used if a 
replacement windscreen is authorised. I couldnt find any other reference within the policy 
documentation that refers to car manufacturer glass being offered.
I listened in full to the call recording that Mr A made to Admiral. At the start of the call Mr A 
explains that he has already contacted the windscreen repairers but as he wanted the 
replacement to be with the car manufacturer glass the repairers had referred him back to 
Admiral for authorisation. 
The Admiral call handler was not certain if this was something that was covered by his policy 
and put Mr A on hold whilst she made some internal enquiries and checks. It was clear that 
she misunderstood the advice she was given by a collegue, as she was not given approval 
to offer him glass from his car manufacturer.  She incorrectly confirmed to Mr A that he 
would be able to have his windscreen replaced with the car manufacturer glass.
I have taken in to account that Mr A says that the call handler didnt make a mistake as 
Admiral may use either glass from the car manufacturer or glass of a similar standard and 
quality from a third party, and that the call handler had offered him the manufacturers glass. 
I dont think that I can agree that this was specifically offered to Mr A, but I do agree he was 
incorrectly informed he could have it.
I understand that Mr A will have been frustrated to be informed within a few days, and before 
the repair took place,that he had been incorrectly informed by the Admiral call handler and 
that his windscreen would not be replaced with the car manufacturer glass as he has 
requested.
Mr A said that Admiral said his car is too old to have the manufacturer glass approved. 
Admiral said that the reason why age of vehicle was mentioned as a factor in this claim was 
because it does form part of the criteria it uses when deciding if original glass will be used. It 
said that the overriding factor in its terms and conditions state that it may use glass that is 
not provided by the manufacturer. 
Admiral acknowledged an error in its communication with Mr A and I think its award of £100 
for the incorrect information he was given and the delay it caused with the repairs is fair in 
this situation. 
I think that the details within Mr As policy were clear. And I think Admiral are within the 
terms and conditions of Mr As policy to offer to replace his windscreen with glass of a similar 
standard and quality and not with manufacturer glass.
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr As complaint and dont think that Admiral have unfairly declined 
his claim. Mr A is still able to progress with the repair to the glass in his windscreen within the terms 
and conditions of his policy.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman