DRN-2024928
The complaint
Mr W complains that RCI Financial Services Limited imposed unfair charges in the 
termination of his finance agreement. 
What happened
In 2016 Mr W acquired a car funded by a finance agreement. RCI wrote to him on 1 May and 
31 May 2019 to notify him the agreement was due to come to an end on 28 August and set 
out a range of options. Mr W chose to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement and notified 
RCI by email on 23 July 2019. In that email he told RCI he wasnt responsible for the MOT 
which was due on 29 July.  RCI called him on 26 July to outline the VT procedure and a 
pack was issued to him on 27 July.
Mr W disputed any liabilities as set out in the VT pack and by the time collection of the car 
had been arranged by a third party acting on behalf of RCI the MOT had expired. The third 
party wouldnt collect the car unless it did so on a low loader and a stalemate developed. 
Eventually the car was collected on a low loader and RCI sent Mr W an invoice for the cost 
of collection and for damage which it said went beyond fair wear and tear.
Mr Ws complaint was rejected by RCI, but it did agree as a matter of goodwill to remove a 
charge for faded paintwork. He then brought his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Mr W said that he was under no obligation to arrange and pay for a MOT. As soon as he had 
sent the VT notice the responsibility fell to RCI. He said he had offered to deliver the car, but 
RCI hadnt taken up this offer and didnt take reasonable steps to collect it before the MOT 
expired. He also suggested the charge of £250 for collection as disproportionate for the 
distance taken. 
He accepted that if he had damaged the car after that date, he would be liable, but not if 
something happened to it beyond his control.
He also disagreed with the charge for damages and the use of the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association guidelines. He said the guidelines were not the only basis determining 
what went beyond fair wear and tear and suggested they set an unreasonably high standard, 
not taking full account of a cars age and use.  
He took the view that the charge for wear and tear to the tyres was unreasonable and the 
cost charged was disproportionate. 
Our investigator noted Mr Ws arguments which were founded on his view of the relevant 
consumer law which differed from the interpretation taken by RCI. He explained that this 
service takes the law into account, but our role is to determine what is fair in the 
circumstances. Our investigator and Mr W exchanged views on the complaint and were 
unable to find much, if any, common ground.
Our investigator concluded that RCI had not done anything wrong in that it had acted 
reasonably.  He thought it was entitled to charge for the collection of the car and that Mr W 
was responsible for the car having a valid MOT. He also concluded that the damage was 
chargeable. Given no agreement could be reached the matter has been referred to me to 
issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have some sympathy with Mr W, but I dont consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr W has made an argument based on his interpretation of the relevant statute and I follow 
his analysis, which he has set out with clarity, but as he accepts, my role is to determine 
what is fair and reasonable to both parties. I recognise he has also pursued an argument 
that RCIs action went beyond what was fair and reasonable. I trust he will understand if I 
dont provide a detailed analysis of the what I consider to be the legal position since that is 
matter for the court system rather than a dispute resolution service.  I will concentrate on 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable, as informed by the relevant legislation.
It is not in dispute that Mr W was entitled to VT the agreement and that he did so in writing, 
via email in manner which was clear. However, I have noted RCI has disputed the validity of 
an email rather than its official form. I dont think I need comment on that argument as it 
doesnt affect my decision.
In effect Mr W said I am ending the agreement we have and I am no longer bound by it. In 
turn RCI was entitled to the return of its asset, the car. In my view the onus was on Mr W, 
having ended the agreement to return RCIs asset to it.
Of course, RCI being a large institution has procedures which it follows and it called Mr W 
and sent him a VT pack. Mr W chose not to complete the form he was asked to complete 
and this was his right. He says he It could be argued that if RCI had acted immediately and 
organised collection then this could have been done before the MOT was due. However, I 
am conscious that RCI was only given six days to organise this and two of these were the 
weekend. I dont consider it reasonable to expect RCI to have acted as quickly as Mr W has 
suggested.
I have noted that Mr W was aware that the agreement was coming to an end long before he 
chose to send his VT email. He was entitled to delay such action, but in doing so it put at risk 
the car being collected before the MOT was required. 
There has been much discussion about the legal requirement, or not, on Mr W ensuring the 
car had a MOT after he had sent in the VT notice. My view is that the relevance of the MOT 
concerns the ability of the third party to collect the car. If it had a MOT then a driver could 
have driven it away, but as it didnt a low loader was required leading to the charge imposed 
by RCI. In my view it follows that the charge flows from RCI not being given sufficient time to 
organise an earlier collection date.
Mr W has challenged the level of the charge, but I am satisfied that this was the charge 
made to RCI by the third party and it has simply passed it on to Mr W without any uplift. I 
dont consider that to be unreasonable.
On the matter of the charge for damages RCI invoiced Mr W for the cost of replacing two 
tyres due to uneven wear, dull paint on the bumper and the missing MOT. It subsequently removed the charge for the dull paint. Mr W doesnt agree that these items went beyond fair 
wear and tear. He also challenges the use of the BVRLA guidelines. 
Firstly, I consider RCI is entitled to charge for damage which goes beyond fair wear and tear. 
The agreement requires him to keep the car in good repair and condition at all times. 
I have taken on board Mr Ws argument that the BVRLA guidelines are not the only means 
of determining what is fair wear and tear, but this service does regard them as a reasonably 
objective set of guidelines as to what is acceptable. It always possible to disagree with the 
use of the guidelines, for example when considering an elderly car. There are occasions 
they have to be adapted to reflect the circumstances. However, I dont think that applies 
here. 
I have looked at the photographs and I can see that the two tyres have suffered from uneven 
wear and regardless of whether one relies on the BVRLA guidelines or some other definition 
I consider the damage to be such that it is chargeable.  I appreciate that Mr W could have 
replaced them at a lower rate than charged by RCI, but he didnt do so and I dont believe 
the charge to be unreasonable.
I recognise Mr W will be disappointed by my decision and I do appreciate the arguments he 
has laid out, but I dont consider RCI had acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman