DRN-3365268
The complaint
Mr M and Miss R are unhappy with the offer made by Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great 
Lakes) in relation to their wedding insurance claim. Theyre also unhappy with the overall 
handling of the claim.
What happened
Mr M and Miss R purchased wedding insurance in July 2019 at a cost of £156.72 for their 
wedding which was due to take place in June 2020. Because of Covid-19, they postponed 
their wedding to June 2021. 
Mr M and Miss R tried to make a claim under the rearrangement part of their policy, but this 
was declined. Great Lakes concluded that the wedding wasnt able to go ahead as planned 
due to government regulation or act which it didnt provide cover for, and that it fell under a 
general exclusion for losses arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any 
country. So Mr M and Miss R brought their complaint  about the losses associated with the 
rearrangement of the wedding  to us. 
Great Lakes reconsidered the claim and made an offer. It agreed to pay for the flower girls 
dresses, florist deposit and photographer which, after the excess had been deducted, 
totalled £365.25. But it said items like stationery, soft drinks and personalised items for the 
bridal party werent covered. Mr M and Miss R were unhappy with this offer. And, at the time 
of this offer, it was unclear whether the rearranged wedding would be going ahead due to 
uncertainty around the easing of Covid-19 restrictions. 
Ultimately Mr M and Miss R decided to cancel the wedding that had been planned and made 
Great Lakes aware of this. Great Lakes agreed to cover the cancellation, but the parties 
werent able to reach an agreement around what should or shouldnt be paid. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She ultimately concluded that Great Lakes 
should refund deposits for various wedding services as well as items such as the wedding 
dress, bridesmaids dresses, and the grooms suit. But she didnt think it should pay for items 
such as socks, underwear or accessories. She also didnt think the policy provided cover for 
stationery or self-catered items including food, drink, and decorations. 
But Mr M and Miss R disagreed. They felt it hadnt been taken into account that they did 
what they could to mitigate losses which has ultimately benefited the insurer. They also felt 
strongly that self-catered items shouldnt be excluded from cover. 
The complaint was passed to me. I got in touch with both parties, as our rules allow, in an 
attempt to mediate an outcome that felt fair to both sides. But, while both parties made some 
compromises, our informal approach reached an impasse as there were some remaining 
items and requirements that remained in dispute. And Mr M and Miss R didnt feel that Great 
Lakes had made it clear in their documentation that theyd require the items back in the 
event of a claim.
At that stage, Great Lakes had agreed to cover the following (subject to the return of 
applicable items): 
Agreed items 
- Florist deposit 
- Photography deposit 
- Videographer deposit
- Catering deposit 
- Marquee deposit 
- Band deposit 
- Photo booth deposit 
- Place settings 
- Bride and bridesmaid hair and make-up deposit 
- Suit hire for best man and grooms father 
- Wedding dress 
- Wedding shoes 
- Bridesmaid dresses 
- Flower girl dresses 
- Groom waistcoat 
- Groom and groomsmen ties 
- Groom suit 
- Dated cufflinks 
- Bridesmaid earrings 
- Sunglasses for groomsmen 
- Dated socks and underwear for groomsmen, groom, and father of the bride 
It also agreed to pay £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
But it hadnt agreed to pay for: 
Items not agreed 
- Stationery 
- Bridesmaid accessories (dress hangers, dressing gown, mirrors for handbags
- Champagne and spirits 
- Soft drinks, sweets and biscuits 
- Wine 
- Flower decorations 
- Fishbowl decorations, mirror plates, water gel beads 
- Baskets for flower girls 
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022. In this, I said:
Id like to start by saying that I do appreciate how disappointing it must have been for Mr M 
and Miss R to be unable to proceed with the wedding theyd planned due to Covid-19  and 
Im sorry to learn how much this has impacted them. But, while I empathise, its important to 
remember that Great Lakes wasnt at fault for the occurrence of insured peril  i.e. that the 
wedding couldnt go ahead. But it is Great Lakes responsibility as an insurer is to indemnify 
Mr M and Miss R in line with the terms and conditions that both parties contracted into. My 
provisional decision will largely focus on the remaining items that Great Lakes has said it 
isnt intending to cover. 
Mr M and Miss R have said that they were under the impression all costs for cancellation would be covered based on the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which says 
that the cover would pay for costs incurred should you have to cancel or rearrange your 
wedding due to unforeseen circumstances. While I appreciate it says this, I note that theres 
a section entitled Are there restrictions on cover? where key restrictions are listed, 
including one about the requirement to provide evidence of contracts for good and services. 
And I also must consider that the IPID provides a summary of the key information. As the 
document states, complete information is provided in the full policy documentation. I dont 
consider this unreasonable. 
Items in dispute 
Mr M and Miss R accept that stationery isnt covered by the policy, though theyve expressed 
surprise at this as invitations are considered a staple item for weddings. Ive considered the 
policy terms which say Great Lakes will pay for: 
any irrecoverable expenses incurred by you in respect of flowers caterers and the 
services from any other wedding services supplier booked but not used as a direct result of 
the unavoidable cancellation or curtailment of the wedding 
The list of items (which I havent provided in full above) doesnt include stationery. But Ive 
considered the definition of wedding services to see if it reasonably falls under this. The 
policy says that wedding services: 
Shall mean the providers of professional photography and/or professional video operation; 
floral arrangements; wedding planning services (excludes responsibility for paying suppliers 
on your behalf), venue dressers and decorators; hired cars or transport; toastmaster; venue; 
wedding cake; ceremonial attire; catering; DJ/disco; band/musician or paid entertainment 
contracted directly by you to provide services at the wedding or wedding reception. 
So stationery doesnt fall under the listed items and therefore isnt covered by the policy. I 
therefore wouldnt expect Great Lakes to provide cover for stationery, or similar items. 
Similarly, Mr M and Miss R purchased items that were intended to be used as decorations. 
But these also arent listed in the policy. While the policy does refer to venue dressers and 
decorators this is under the wedding services definition, and it appears to me that this 
covers the cost of a contracted provider, rather than the cost of the items. So, I dont 
consider these items to be covered under the policy. 
I move on next to the soft drinks, sweets and biscuits. These are all items which Mr M and 
Miss R purchased themselves from supermarkets. These goods arent listed as items that 
would be covered under the policy. So Ive thought about whether they could reasonably be 
considered as part of a service. Mr M and Miss R believe these items should be covered 
due to the caterers part of the term. Theyve referenced that caterers have been listed 
separately to wedding services in the explanation around what will be covered (quoted 
above) which they say leads to some ambiguity around the terms. 
Its been accepted that the deposit for the contracted caterers is covered, but the policy 
doesnt specifically reference self-catering. However, one of the general exclusions of the 
policy says the policy wont cover any costs where no written contractual agreement exists 
directly between you and the wedding services supplier. This would suggest that self-
catered items arent included as Mr M and Miss R havent contracted themselves. Ive 
thought about this from a fairness perspective for completeness and, while theres some 
evidence of supermarket receipts, theres not enough here that leads me to be able to safely 
say that these items were purchased solely for the purpose of the wedding. As an example, 
one of the orders for soft drinks appears to have been delivered some six months before the intended wedding. So, I dont think the policy requires Great Lakes to pay out for these 
items, and I dont think it would be fair me to ask it to pay on a fair and reasonable basis. 
In terms of champagne and spirits, it doesnt appear that Ive received receipts for these. 
But, assuming they were purchased in the same way as the soft drinks, sweets and biscuits, 
I think the same logic as above applies  so I dont think Great Lakes should pay out for 
these items. 
In terms of flower decorations, while it doesnt appear that I have much information about 
these, I think the same principle applies here to that of the catering and the other 
decorations. By this I mean that the policy provides cover for a service (rather than the cost 
of items) and only where a written contractual agreement exists. And that means I dont think 
these would be covered. 
However, Im minded to think the situation with the wine should be considered a bit 
differently. Mr M and Miss R have provided a receipt from a well-known wine merchant 
showing wine purchased costing in excess of £4,000 for almost 500 bottles. Despite the 
merchants policy to refund a maximum of 25% of the wine, it waived this and refunded all 
but £270 of it. Evidence suggests that all the wine was returned but some bottles were 
refunded at a reduced price, meaning that Mr M and Miss R didnt retain any of the bottles. It 
seems clear to me, given the quantity purchased and the evidence of its return to the 
merchant, that the purpose of this wine was for the wedding. And theres enough information 
here that it could reasonably be considered a form of contract. So Im minded to say that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes should pay this £270. 
The remaining items are the bridesmaids accessories (such as dress hangers, dressing 
gowns and mirrors for handbags) and baskets for the flower girls. These items dont appear 
to be covered by the terms of the policy. However, as Ive said in earlier communication, 
theres a particularly ambiguous definition of ceremonial attire which is Clothing and 
accessories of the couple, attendants and the parents of the couple, whether hired or owned, 
and association regalia. It was the ambiguity of this term which led to the agreement to 
include things like socks and underwear. 
On review, I think the flower girls baskets, which havent been specifically mentioned before, 
should also be included in the claim on the basis that they would be used during the 
ceremony. But I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to include the dress hangers, 
dressing gowns and mirrors. While they are accessories used by the attendants, I dont think 
they can be reasonably considered as required for the ceremony, which seems to be a basic 
requirement of this definition  ceremonial attire. 
Returning items 
So Im minded to say that Great Lakes should pay out for the items it already agreed to plus 
those Ive suggested above. But this is on the basis that items being claimed for are returned 
in an unworn/unused condition. Mr M and Miss R have told us that they werent made aware 
of this. But this is a common requirement across the insurance industry, linked to the 
principle of betterment. Policyholders should be indemnified i.e. be put back into the 
financial position they were in just before the loss. But, by allowing them to keep an item, or 
use an item, as well as receive payment for the cost of it, theyd effectively be financially 
benefiting which isnt the purpose of insurance. In this case, the loss is the wedding not 
being able to go ahead. So Mr M and Miss R should, in line with what the policy provides for, 
be put back into the position they were in before purchasing the wedding dress, the 
personalised socks etc. which means they should have the money that those items cost but 
shouldnt have the items, or use of them. Mr M and Miss R have suggested that by not being notified of the requirement to return the 
items, they were mis-sold the insurance. Ive let them know that if they wish to pursue a mis-
sale complaint, theyd need to raise this with the seller of the policy. But I dont think that the 
absence of this from the policy documentation means that Great Lakes should be expected 
to waive this right. Mr M and Miss R have let us know that theyve disposed of some of the 
items. But they wouldve been aware of an issue with their wedding proceeding before 
disposing of the items. And as they held this policy and intended to claim on it, I cant say it 
wouldve been unreasonable for them to have checked with the insurer being taking 
irreversible steps. I consider it fair and reasonable to return items to the insurer to allow them 
to mitigate their own losses, but also to evidence that the items hadnt been used, gifted or 
sold on. And I cant fairly ask the insurer to cover anything theyre unable to return. 
In summary, Im minded to think Great Lakes should pay:
-for all of the items listed in agreed items list above; 
-£270 for the wine; 
-for the flower girls baskets 
The above should be paid on receipt of the returned items, so Great Lakes can verify what is 
being returned to it and that the items are in an unworn/unused condition. 
In addition, Great Lakes should pay: 
-8% simple interest on the amount payable from the date Mr M and Miss R confirmed 
they were cancelling the wedding rather than rearranging it, to the date of settlement;
-£400 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
-Less anything thats already been paid and the excess 
I consider this fair on the basis that Mr M and Miss R have been caused considerable 
distress and inconvenience by the handling of this claim. But I also recognise that Great 
Lakes has made offers to make interim payments which appear to have been declined. And I 
also recognise that Great Lakes has included items in the offer which they werent 
necessarily required to under the policy, such as for the marquee, which was an optional 
extra, and the place settings. So Im minded to say this strikes a fair balance.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M and Miss R responded with some further comments which Ill summarise below:
- While they disagree with the points about stationery and self-catered items, they 
accept these as my interpretation of the policy wording. 
- They dont think its fair that it was their responsibility to ask the insurer whether it 
would want the items being claimed for back. Theyve said the insurer made no 
reference to returning the items and that the dispute had been going on for over a 
year before they disposed of the items. Theyve kept the wedding dress as they knew 
it had some value, as well as the wedding shoes but have disposed of many of the 
other items, such as the sunglasses and underwear which they say have no resale 
value. 
- Theyve asked for a list of items that need to be returned so that nothing can be 
missed. 
- They note that the wedding dress was worn for fittings and has been tailored to fit 
Miss R. 
Great Lakes accepted the provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything Mr M and Miss R have put forward, I havent found cause to 
reach a different outcome to that of my provisional decision  Ill explain why.
The remaining issue relates to whether Great Lakes should pay for items which have now 
been disposed of. I can appreciate that this matter caused Mr M and Miss R upset, and that 
it was an inconvenience for them to keep items for a significant period of time that they 
werent going to be able to use as intended. But I have to think about what they could 
reasonably have been expected to do, and whats fair for both parties. 
I set out within my provisional decision my stance on returning the items and why I felt this 
was fair. While I empathise with Mr M and Miss R and can appreciate that keeping such 
sentimental items was upsetting for them, I maintain that it wouldve been reasonable to 
check with the insurer before disposing of the items. So my overall stance hasnt changed 
and Id only expect Great Lakes to reimburse Mr M and Miss R for items it receives back in 
an unused/unworn condition. I recognise that this does mean that Mr M and Miss R wont be 
reimbursed for some of the items. But, as I said in my provisional decision, returning the 
items allows the insurer to mitigate its losses and evidence that items havent been used, 
gifted, or sold on. 
The items that Mr M and Miss R are able to return and can expect to receive a refund for, 
subject to them being in an unused/unworn, are listed within the agreed items above but 
with the addition of the flower girls baskets. Only items that are tangible would need to be 
returned i.e. a deposit cant be sent to Great Lakes. Id expect Great Lakes to contact Mr M 
and Miss R to let them know how to go about returning the items, with the expectation that 
Mr M and Miss R will co-operate. And Id also expect Great Lakes to take a reasonable 
approach with regards to items that will have been worn for fittings and tailored for the 
wearer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Great 
Lakes Insurance SE to do the following:
- provide a refund for all items listed (which includes deposits) within the agreed items 
list above and also the flower girls baskets. For physical items within this list, this is 
subject to receipt of the items in an unused/unworn condition;
- pay £270 for the wine;
- pay 8% simple interest on the amount payable from the date Mr M and Miss R 
confirmed they were cancelling the wedding rather than rearranging it, to the date of 
settlement (subject to co-operation regarding return of the items);
- pay £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused; and
- deduct from this amount anything thats already been paid and the excess.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman