DRN-3726600
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the delays caused by Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) when she
transferred her pension to another pension provider.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 12 September 2022. Ive reproduced 
the relevant parts of it below, and it forms part of this final decision.
In brief, Mrs W was transferring her pension to another pension provider which I will refer to
as Provider A. Provider A requested that Zurich use a specific reference when making the
transfer payment to it. Zurich sent a letter to Provider A about the transfer on 1 September
2020. This included the relevant reference. The transfer value (£20,346) was sent to
Provider A, and it received it on 14 September 2020. However Provider A says the details it
received with the payment (through Bacs  Bankers Automated Clearing system) didnt
include the reference. So the money couldnt be allocated to the appropriate account.
Provider A said it therefore returned the transfer value to Zurich. At this point it hadnt
received Zurichs letter dated 1 September 2020 (it received it the day after  15 September
2020).
Zurich received the returned transfer value on 17 September 2020. However it initially failed
to identify that it had received the returned money. Having heard nothing about the progress
of the transfer for some time, Mrs W called Provider A on 21 September 2020. She was told
the funds had been returned to Zurich, and that Provider A had written to Zurich to explain
the problem with the returned funds.
Mrs W called Zurich and told them Provider A had said it had returned the funds. Mrs W
called Zurich again on 5 October 2020 and was told it hadnt received the funds back from
Provider A. It subsequently discovered that it had actually received the returned funds on 17
September 2020. Zurich alerted Mrs W to the position on 12 October 2020, and told her the
funds would be with Provider A on that day or the day after. Provider A received the funds on
12 October 2020.
Mrs W subsequently complained to Zurich. It said it had used the correct reference number
with the original payment. But it accepted that it had initially failed to appreciate that the
money had been returned to it on 17 September 2020, and that it hadnt provided the level of
service that Mrs W could have expected. It apologised and paid Mrs W £60 for the cost of
her calls and the distress and inconvenience caused by the matter.
Mrs W referred her complaint to us. Our investigators final view was that it was more likely
than not that Zurich hadnt included Provider As reference when it initially made the
payment on 9 September 2020. He said although Zurich had provided a screen print
showing the payment details that were going to be sent to Provider A, and these included
the reference, he had also seen a screen print of Provider As receiving account and the
details it had been sent. These hadnt included the appropriate reference. So he didnt think
the transfer payment had been correctly sent. He thought Zurich should re-model Mrs Ws
pension assuming Provider A had received the funds on 14 September and invested them
on 15 September 2020.
Zurich didnt agree. It said, in brief, it had provided evidence showing that it had sent the
appropriate reference with the original transfer payment. So it thought Provider A should
have been able to identify the funds and allocate them appropriately. It said that it had
already agreed that it was responsible for the additional delay once the funds had been
returned, and it would ensure Mrs W didnt suffer any financial detriment as a result of that.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view. He acknowledged that Zurichs copy
of the Bacs details included the appropriate reference number. But he didnt think this
evidenced how the transaction had actually been made. He thought the evidence Provider A
had sent to us showing what details they had actually received was more compelling. This
showed only a single line entry without a reference number. Whereas all the other
transactions received on that day had two lines of information and all included its reference
number.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator said he thought it was more likely than not that Zurich had failed to provide
the reference when sending the transfer payment by Bacs. He said he thought that Zurich
should put the matter right by re-modelling Mrs Ws pension with Provider A on the basis it
had received the transfer payment on 14 September 2020, and invested it on 15 September
2020.
Zurich has said that it has provided evidence to show that its Bacs payment included the
reference. Zurich provided an extract from its Bacs file. However the letter to Provider A
dated 1 September 2020 said that payment had been made by bank giro credit. And the
extract doesnt provide any context  for example that it is from a list of bacs payments only
or the relevant date the payment relates to.
As the investigator said, the evidence provided by Provider A does show other payments it
received on that day and they all included Provider As reference numbers. I dont think I can
say, on balance, the reference was more likely included with the payment.
However, having said that, I think whats key here is that, irrespective of whether the
reference was included, any delays didnt cause Mrs W any financial loss.
The transfer payment of £20,346.31 bought 6,433.699 units priced at 3.161 on 12 October
2020. The price of the units on 15 September 2020 wasnt significantly different; albeit very
slightly higher (3.169). Therefore if the transfer had been processed in a timelier manner and
the transfer value been invested at this earlier date (15 September 2020), it would have
bought slightly fewer units; approximately 6420. Therefore although there was a delay, Mrs
W didnt suffer a financial loss as a result of it; she was slightly better off; by about £50 at the
time.
As I explained above, Zurich has already acknowledged that it wasnt aware the transferred
funds had been returned and had been received by it on 17 September 2020, and that it
hadnt provided an acceptable level of service at that point. It did apologise in its e-mail to
Mrs W dated 3 December 2020 and I understand it paid Mrs W £60 in compensation for her
costs and the distress and inconvenience caused by the matter.
Whilst I accept that Mrs W did have to chase Zurich to locate the missing funds, taking allthe above into account and in particular that Mrs W didnt suffer a financial loss, although I
consider that Zurich made an error, I think the compensation it paid to Mrs W was fair in all
the circumstances and it doesnt need to do more.
My provisional decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that although Zurich made an error, its compensation
was fair in the particular circumstances.
I asked Mrs W and Zurich to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me 
to consider before I made my final decision. 
Neither party provided any further evidence or arguments about the merits of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision above.
My final decision
My final decision is that although Zurich made an error, its compensation was fair in the 
particular circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman