DRN-3996290
The complaint
Mr A complains about how much Sabre Insurance Company Limited (Sabre) refunded him 
when he cancelled his motorcycle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A took out a motorcycle insurance policy with Sabre in August 2022. He paid the entire 
annual premium of £1,930.59, which included some additional products.
The policy was arranged through a broker, but this complaint is against Sabre.
On 3 September he was involved in an incident with a third party. Mr A contacted Sabre and 
told it about the incident. He asked that Sabre record it as notification only.
Mr A asked to cancel his policy 56 days after it incepted.
Sabre confirmed the claim had been closed as non-fault. It cancelled his policy and 
refunded him. Mr A wasnt happy about the amount of the refund. Sabre said details of it 
were included in the policy wording which says:
Your request to cancel outside the cooling off period and have paid in full
Unless a total loss claim has occurred, you will pay for:
- A percentage of the annual premium calculated as per the below table
- A minimum administration fee of £60
We will then refund any amount we owe you. If a claim has been made, either by you 
or a third party, we will not give you a refund.
No refunds will be given for any additional policy features added to the policy after 
inception.
The table referred to states that a refund between months one and two from inception would 
be 62.5% of the annual premium. 
Sabre waived its fee of £30. It said that the £60 referred to above was a broker fee.
Mr A remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He says he has lost a 
significant amount of money and that Sabre has caused him a great deal of stress and 
inconvenience as hes been chasing Sabre up regularly. He asks that he pays for one month 
of cover and that Sabre refund the remainder.
Our investigator looked into it. He asked Sabre to justify why it said there was more risk at 
the start of the policy, which might justify why it refunded a smaller part of the premium than 
what Mr A expected.
Sabre said it was up to it how it arranged its refunds. It said there was no regulatory 
requirement to refund on a pro-rata basis.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. He said Sabre should refund the premium on a 
pro-rata basis, plus interest at 8% simple on the difference between what it had already 
refunded, and the amount it should have refunded. 
Mr A accepted the view, but Sabre didnt. So this complaint has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done up, Im upholding it and Ill explain why.
Sabres refund policy for when a customer cancels is detailed in its policy wording and Ive 
included that in the section above. 
When an insurer provides a refund thats less than pro-rata, its this services view that wed 
expect it to be able to justify why it uses these rates, which are commonly referred to as 
short-period rates. 
If Sabre charges short-period rates on a motorcycle insurance policy, wed expect it to 
explain why the risk is not evenly spread. Wed try to understand how it calculated the risk 
which would help us understand why a customer would effectively be charged more for the 
initial cover  and consequently why its refund policy worked that way.
We asked Sabre for details of this. It replied that there were many factors in the decision to 
charge short-period rates, but it didnt provide the details we asked for. 
It said that its refund criteria were included in the policy wording, which Mr A had a copy of. 
Because Mr A had this wording and had been able to read it and cancel during the cooling-
off period, it said it had acted fairly. Sabre also said that:
the exposure is greater within the early stages of the policy period.
But it didnt supply any evidence to justify why.
As Sabre didnt provide the information we asked for, I am upholding Mr As complaint. I 
dont think its fair that Sabre applied short-period rates on Mr As policy, so its fair that I 
require it to refund him on a pro-rata basis. I also think Sabre should pay him interest on the 
shortfall.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Sabre 
Insurance Company Limited to refund Mr As premium on a pro-rata basis from the date of 
cancellation. 
It should also add interest at 8% simple on the difference between what it has already 
refunded and the pro-rata amount, from the date the initial refund was made to the date this 
final payment is made.
Sabre Insurance Company Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman