DRN-4003268
Background to the complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) will not
refund payments Mrs S made to an alleged investment scam.
After attending a seminar about investing in digital assets, Mrs S decided to deposit money
with a new company that had just launched a cryptocurrency, which Ill refer to as N. This
venture was backed by an individual who had a large social media and online presence,
centred around making money through investments. The new cryptocurrency was marketed
as being asset-backed with its own financial eco-system, providing certain benefits.
Having been persuaded that the scheme could be successful, between September and
November 2017 Mrs S made three payments to N using the Tesco credit card she jointly
shares with Mr S. However, Mrs S later thought she had been scammed because she wasnt
satisfied that N had fulfilled what it had promised.
Mrs S raised a complaint with Tesco on the grounds that it ought to return the £6,900 or so
that she had paid N. Tesco didnt agree. It said the only recourse method left available to
Mrs S was a claim under the protection her credit card provides; Section 75 of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 (CCA). But in the end, Tesco didnt accept that it should be required to
refund any of the payments under Section 75.
When Mrs S referred the dispute to this service, one of our investigators ultimately
concluded that Tesco should reimburse the first two transactions under Section 75, with the
final payment not warranting a refund. Mrs S accepts this recommendation.
Tesco does not agree, proposing that a successful Section 75 claim falls down on account of
the evidence. Because the parties are not in agreement, the matter has been escalated to
me to decide.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 16 February 2023. I have copied the findings 
section of the decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive briefly summarised the events that unfolded. This is not a 
discourtesy to the complainants or Tesco; it simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service and the decision I intend to reach.
As a starting point, its important to draw a finding on whether N was operating 
fraudulently, as banks like Tesco do have a duty to protect customers against the risk 
of financial loss due to fraud (amongst other illicit activity). It follows that it may be 
right for Tesco to return the payments if it failed to employ reasonable endeavours to 
protect the account.
I accept that there is information available within the public domain that suggests N 
was running a scam. Still, I take into consideration that cryptocurrency is a largely 
unregulated arena, with far less stringent requirements on the need for authorised 
advice compared to other investment types. This may mean that consumers have 
simply lost out to high-risk investments in what is a volatile market  and have posted 
consequential reviews and articles claiming that they have been defrauded. I 
therefore have to bear in mind that information publicised is not always reliable and 
that suffering losses to investments is not the same as the investment itself being a 
scam.
The UK regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), regard the use of industry
intelligence as critical to detecting and preventing investment fraud. Accordingly, Ive 
paid particular attention to the official organisations that publish warnings about 
merchants that operate in the UK and abroad to see what has been reported about 
N. Ive searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the 
world's securities regulators. And the FCAs own warning list, which is in place to 
share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially 
being fraudulent.
As far as I am reasonably aware, neither of these official watchlists, nor other 
reputable sources, have identified N as operating a scam. Overall, I find there is a 
lack of compelling intel that this scheme has been identified as fraudulent  and this 
is reinforced by authoritative sources covering cross-industry forums and various 
jurisdictions.
The complainants submit that the information they received from N proves it was only 
out to scam people. I can appreciate that they feel strongly that the failure to fulfil 
certain promises equates to fraudulent activity. As they see it, acquiring money from 
investors and not following through on commitments is the very definition of fraud.
I acknowledge the complainants strength of feeling on the matter. However, Im 
afraid I disagree. While customers who have lost out understandably regard such 
acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold 
or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or 
failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for himself. Or, 
dishonestly causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (pursuant 
to the Fraud Act 2006).
In my judgment, what has been presented about N does not substantiate that it was 
only ever set up with the intention of defrauding investors. Rather, what the 
complainants have shown merely demonstrates the marketing behind Ns proposed 
business model, including its white paper and sales videos, which it planned to use 
to prove successful.
There was evidently a conception to grow the business and provide 
members/investors with certain features and benefits. For example, the white paper 
shows the intention was to launch physical debit cards that could be used in ATM 
machines in 2018 (i.e. the year after Mrs S made these payments). Around the same 
time, Ns cryptocurrency was to be listed on crypto trading platforms to increase its 
value.I accept that this strategy may not have come to fruition. Still, that does not prove that 
N always intended to defraud consumers of their deposits to the scheme, or that all 
along it aimed to deceive without ever attempting to carry out its business 
proposition. It may have been that the blueprint for N to be profitable simply did not 
bode well, resulting in plans for these features not ever coming to pass.
Indeed, there are thousands of cryptocurrencies that are listed or have previously 
been listed  demonstrating that some may succeed, while others may fail. The point 
being, there is an array of digital assets and trading opportunities within this market 
that have proved unfruitful, despite being promoted as a lucrative investment 
opportunity. New start-ups inevitably bear a risk of ultimately being unsuccessful, but 
this is not necessarily the same as them being set up with the intention to deceive 
investors by dishonest means.
I make my determination on the balance of probabilities. And in the individual 
circumstances of this case, it currently seems more likely than not Mrs S regrettably 
lost out on the money paid to N to obtain cryptocurrency and the associated benefits, 
because this was a fledgling business that had plans to bring investors profits which 
did not turn out to be the case.
Therefore, while I acknowledge the concerns the complainants have raised about the
techniques N employed, in the absence of new evidence Im not persuaded it was 
fraudulent or operating a scam. As a result, Tesco did not make a failing by not 
taking further steps when these three payments were instructed.
Section 75 of the CCA 1974
Section 75 stipulates that, in some circumstances, the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right (or like claim) against the credit provider. Whether a 
payment qualifies for Section 75 is dependent on certain conditions being met.
Our investigator considered that Section 75 was a valid method of recourse for only 
the first two payments  which was accepted by the complainants and not specifically 
contested by Tesco. Its therefore not in dispute that the first two of the three 
transactions might qualify for this means of recovery, while the final one does not. 
Regardless, Im not convinced its reasonable to require Tesco to refund any of the 
payments under the CCA 1974  so whether this last transaction is also eligible is 
immaterial to my proposed outcome.
A consideration for any Section 75 claim is whether it can be established that there 
was a breach of contract and/or a misrepresentation. Here, this would need to be 
between Mrs S and N in relation to a contract that was funded by this Tesco credit 
card.
Ive already described why I am currently not satisfied N was a fraudulent enterprise.
Consequently, I do not find that a misrepresentation or breach of contract has been
established on the grounds of N positioning that it was a legitimate business when in 
fact it was a fraudulent outfit.
A claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract may also relate to a genuine 
supplier. The complainants assert that the services Mrs S received from N were not 
as described, amounting to misrepresentation. And that N did not deliver on certain 
aspects at all, together with its service not being fit for its intended purpose  which 
would typically be considered under breach of contract.For a misrepresentation claim to be successful, its necessary to show not just a false
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mrs S into entering into the 
contract. In a similar fashion, in order to establish that N did not uphold its contractual 
terms, I would need to be clear on exactly what the contract actually promised.
This office has asked the complainants to provide all available documentation that 
was given by N. Mrs S has confirmed that she never received a client agreement or 
contract specifying what she would receive from N for making these payments. To 
that end, all that I have is the white paper from N, limited correspondence shared 
between the parties, along with information that could be found on the firms website 
(which may no longer be accessible).
All of these contain generic information about N, pertaining to its broad ideas and 
plans as a business. The white paper is made up of marketing literature to promote it 
as a brand and does not specify exactly what was pledged to Mrs S as an individual. 
Her name is not stipulated anywhere within the document to the extent that I can 
clearly see a specific offer of services in exchange for remuneration.
The amount paid was precise and made up of multiple payments  but the allotment 
of these funds is not shown to be designated to something of value. With binding 
contracts, usually an offer and acceptance is needed, showing the contractual 
capacity and how each party is bound to uphold its side of the agreement. But I 
cannot see an inextricable link between what Mrs S payments were for and the 
consent given by N to fulfil certain services.
Whats more, in order to establish a false statement of fact that induced Mrs S to the
agreement, I would need to see consideration of terms and conditions that have been
offered and accepted. However, in everything Ive seen, there is no unambiguous 
obligations or contingencies for either party that would give rise to a contract. I 
cannot see any awareness of promises or statements made in return for the deposits 
made, truthful or not.
In light of this, I cannot safely conclude that Mrs S has a valid claim against Tesco for 
a loss incurred that flows from the misrepresentation and/or breach of contract in 
relation to these transactions.
In conclusion, Im very sorry to hear that the complainants have lost a considerable 
amount of money. However, on account of the evidence, at present Im not 
persuaded there is a reasonable basis upon which I can tell Tesco it needs to refund 
these losses in accordance with Section 75 (or otherwise).
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Im minded not to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Tesco did not reply to my provisional decision. Accordingly, the absence of an answer shall 
be treated as the bank not indicating any disagreement with my provisional findings. 
The complainants submitted a response outlining that they did not accept my proposed 
outcome; namely, on the grounds of Section 75. They maintain that a claim under the CCA 
1974 is valid in the circumstances, and so Tesco should reimburse the payments. No new evidence was presented, as the same material and arguments that were put forward 
had already formed part of the information I had been asked to consider, and which led to 
my provisional decision. The complainants reiterated that this case has been judged 
differently to a previous complaint that this office addressed. They emphasised that this 
other case (that was also against Tesco) concluded with Tesco refunding the disputed 
transaction(s) paid to N. In the complainants view, this should necessitate my decision to 
follow suit and require Tesco to refund their loss under Section 75. 
Now that the parties have been given the opportunity to make representations, the matter 
has been returned to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr and Mrs S for their submission. I can understand why theyve called into question 
why two complaints with seemingly very similar circumstances have produced different 
outcomes when investigated by this office. 
Each complaint is different, with the evidence and arguments varying depending on the 
individual circumstances of whats in dispute. Naturally, different complainants and 
businesses propose differing information and objections. Which is why, in keeping with the 
complaint handling rules of this office, I must reach my determination by reference to what, 
in my opinion, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case in front of me. To 
put it another way, an outcome may well vary between what is on the face of things highly 
comparable cases because no two complaints are identical.  
For completeness, I will note that the case that the complainants have highlighted was 
resolved informally by an Investigator. It was not referred to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision, as the dispute was accepted by Tesco. What this means is that, there was no 
guarantee that an Ombudsman would have agreed with the assessment reached  the 
outcome may well have been overturned, as it was here. Its also unclear if the matter was 
resolved by ex gratia offer by Tesco to bring the complaint to an informal end. 
Be that as it may, what we do know is that there was no legally binding agreement or 
conclusion as the complainants have said. Besides, this office has since provided Mr and 
Mrs S with a published decision regarding another case to do with N one that was decided 
by an Ombudsman in the final stage of our process which concurred with my provisional 
findings. I therefore do not see the need to depart from my intended decision on the grounds 
of relatable cases bearing a different outcome (or not). 
Where no new evidence or material has been put forward to counter my provisional findings 
(other than what I have set out above), Im not compelled to alter the way in which I was 
minded to decide the complaint. So, in conclusion, I find no fair or reasonable basis to order 
Tesco to return these disputed payments to the complainants.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above and before, my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman