DRN-3991775
The complaint
Mr M says Lloyds Bank PLC irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card online from Lloyds in May 2018. He was approved and given a 
£2,400 limit.  The account was closed with no outstanding balance in August 2021.
Mr M says he should never have been given this credit. If Lloyds had checked his credit 
record it would have seen he had missed payments and unsecured debt of around £80,000. 
The card made his financial position worse and this went on to severely impact his mental 
health. 
Lloyds says it is satisfied with its checks and they showed the credit card was affordable for 
Mr M.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said from the available evidence he 
could not conclude that Lloyds ought to have made a different lending decision.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said he wanted the ombudsman 
to consider that he had not been given sufficient time to obtain and submit bank statements 
to this service; he had previously defaulted on a credit card issued by another part of Lloyds 
and the checks should have shown this. He also sent in a copy of part of his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
Lloyds is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the
credit facility it was giving to Mr M was affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to
be proportionate to things like the credit limit it offered Mr M, the maximum he could have to 
repay (including interest and charges) each month, his borrowing history with it and what it 
knew about his circumstances. But there is no set list of checks it had to do.
This means to reach my decision I need to consider if Lloyds carried out proportionate
checks at the time of Mr Ms credit card application; if so, did it make a fair lending decision 
based on the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would most likely have 
shown. 
When Mr M applied for the credit card Lloyds asked about his employment and
residential status and for details of his gross annual income. It carried out a credit check that 
it says considered Mr Ms historic credit account data and this generated an internal credit 
score. I think these checks were proportionate given the type of credit Mr M was applying for 
and the maximum monthly repayment in relation to his income.
Lloyds has shared some of the results of these checks. They show that Mr M declared an 
annual income of £40,000 and monthly mortgage costs of £450. Lloyds hasnt supplied any 
information to show what its credit check showed, other than to say Mr Ms application met 
the required credit score. Mr M supplied a copy of part of his credit file and this has allowed 
me to better understand what Lloyds most likely saw as a result of its checks. I appreciate it 
would not have received the same level of detail, and may have just seen an extract. 
I cant reconcile the report with Mr Ms testimony that he had missed payments and had 
£80,000 of unsecured debt when he applied. Whilst Mr M did have a number of cards and 
loans, the report shows Mr M was up to date with all his active accounts when he applied for 
this card. And from what I can see his overall indebtedness was somewhat lower than he 
said. I appreciate he may have had other types of borrowing that did not appear on his file, 
but I cannot fairly expect Lloyds to have known this. 
In the round, based on the available evidence, I think it was fair for Lloyds to conclude that 
the card would be affordable for Mr M. Given the amount of credit it was offering and Mr Ms
credit history I dont think it would have been proportionate for Lloyds to have carried out a
fuller financial review. 
With regards to the comments Mr M made in response to the adjudicators assessment, I 
can see we first asked for bank statements on 10 February 2023. But as I havent found that 
Lloyds should have completed a fuller financial review the outcome of his complaint has not 
been impacted by the fact I have not had sight of his bank statements. I say this as we only 
review bank statements if we conclude a lender did not complete proportionate checks and 
we want to try to recreate what better checks would most likely have shown. 
Mr M also said that a credit card issued by another part of Lloyds had defaulted previously 
but I cannot see this on the credit file Mr M sent in. This could be as it happened more than 
six years ago; I cant know from the available evidence, but I would say that one historic 
adverse entry would not in itself be a reason we would find a lender shouldve decline an 
application.
It follows I dont think Lloyds was wrong to give Mr M the card. To be cIear, I am not saying 
Mr M had no financial worries when he applied, rather that from the proportionate checks 
Lloyds carried out this was not visible. I am sorry Mr M went on to suffer as he did and I 
hope he got the support he needed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman