DRN-2361685
The complaint
Mr Cs unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd incorrectly told him it could raise a chargeback dispute 
regarding a faster payment hed instructed. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Monzo incorrectly told Mr C it could raise a chargeback dispute for him after 14 days. 
But it was never able to do so, it simply isnt a scheme available when funds are sent 
as a faster payment.
Mr C authorised the faster payment for the purchase of a vehicle, and the funds were 
correctly sent to the beneficiary he intended. After the sale Mr C wasnt happy with 
the quality of the vehicle, but that doesnt give Monzo the ability to retrieve his funds, 
even if the recipient was also its customer, this was a dispute between Mr C and the 
seller.
I understand Mr Cs frustration with Monzo leading him to believe he had a good 
case for a chargeback, but Ive not seen it ever guaranteed him it could retrieve his 
funds. The terms of Mr Cs account say once consent is given for a payment it cant 
be cancelled.
I dont think there was any guarantee Mr C would have retrieved his funds by other 
means had Monzo told him a chargeback wasnt possible straightaway. Mr C tried to 
contact the seller before he contacted Monzo but received no response. And he 
continued his attempts throughout the 14 days Monzo told him to wait before it could 
raise a chargeback, again with no success.
Monzo paid £50 compensation to Mr C by way of apology for the incorrect 
information it gave him. Monzo have since increased its offer by £100 to a total of 
£150. Having considered everything carefully I think £150 is a fair amount in 
circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware this isnt the outcome Mr C was looking for. But I dont consider it fair and 
reasonable to ask Monzo to refund him the amount he paid for the vehicle, or to 
cover any of the costs that followed as a result of it not being of the standard he 
expected.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Mr C a further £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused by the mistake.
My final decision
Monzo Bank Ltd has already paid Mr C £50 and it has already made an offer to pay a further 
£100 to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and Monzo Bank Ltd should pay 
Mr C a further £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman