DRN-4072641
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr Os interest-only mortgage with Santander UK Plc, which he took 
out in April 2008 and which matured in April 2021. Mr O says that Santander incorrectly 
calculated the interest due, as a result of which the redemption statement dated 4 March 
2022 was also inaccurate.
To settle the complaint Mr O wants Santander to conduct a full audit of his mortgage account 
so that he can pass Santanders findings to a third party to corroborate those findings.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full history of the complaint. There are several reasons for this. 
First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so there is no need 
for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I 
dont include any information that might lead to Mr O being identified. So for these reasons, I 
will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, 
it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it was material to the 
outcome of the complaint.
An investigator concluded that we could only consider Mr Os complaint in relation to events 
after 16 June 2019 up to 15 December 2022. Thats because Santander had issued a final 
response letter on 15 June 2019 addressing an earlier complaint Mr O had made about the 
incorrect calculation and application of interest to his mortgage account. Mr O didnt refer his 
complaint to our service within six months of the date of that letter and there were no 
exceptional circumstances to explain the delay. The complaint wasnt raised with us until 
15 December 2022.
Mr O accepted this, and so the investigator went on to consider what had happened since 
15 June 2019. He noted Mr O had produced his own account audit carried out on behalf of a 
third party claims management company (CMC). The investigator explained that the report 
had not used the correct interest rate and therefore its conclusions were unreliable. He also 
noted that the account had been in arrears, as a result of which additional interest and fees 
had been incurred. The investigator was satisfied that the redemption statement issued on 
4 March 2022 accurately recorded the position on the account at that date.
Mr O disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that the 
investigator had failed to answer the questions hed posed, and ignored his requests for 
further information. He also said that the investigator hadnt addressed the mortgage interest 
report in relation to overpayments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions which Mr O would like 
answered, its not my role to put those questions to Santander or act as a representative or 
go-between on this case.
Im satisfied that we can only consider Mr Os complaint in relation to events arising after 
15 June 2019. Santander had addressed Mr Os previous complaint about what he claimed 
was the inaccurate application of interest to his mortgage and issued a final response letter 
on 15 June 2019. That letter gave Mr O six months to bring his complaint to our service. He 
didnt do so. Because Santander hasnt consented to us looking at the issues covered in that 
letter, and there are no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay, that part of the 
complaint is out of time.
The crux of Mr Os complaint is that he says the report he has sent us shows that interest 
has been inaccurately calculated and applied to his mortgage account. However, the report 
takes no account of the arrears on the account, as a result of which additional interest and 
fees have accrued, resulting in an increased account balance. The CMC has also used a 
notional interest rate of its own choosing rather than the contractual rate. It is therefore not 
an accurate reflection of the mortgage contract.
Santander has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with detailed information about 
the reasons why it varied its SVR in the way that it did. The information Santander has given 
us is commercially sensitive, so can be treated as confidential. The information has been 
reviewed in line with Santanders mortgage documentation, relevant law and regulations. 
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly overall. Having done so, Im satisfied the 
variations to the SVR from 15 June 2019 onward were in line with the mortgage terms and 
conditions and that Santander exercised those terms fairly. This means that Im satisfied 
Mr O was not overcharged interest on the mortgage since 15 June 2019. 
Overall I am not persuaded there is any basis to say that the variations Santander made to 
its SVR resulted in Mr O being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on the mortgage 
during the period I can consider. Nor does the evidence lead me to conclude that the interest 
rate applied during that period was unfair for any other reason.
Im satisfied the redemption statement dated 4 March 2022 accurately sets out the balance 
to be paid, an amount of £300,148.76, including arrears of £25,582.05. There are no 
overpayments on the account, as Mr O has suggested. 
I understand that there is still an outstanding balance due to Santander. If Mr O is 
experiencing financial hardship, he may want to speak to one of the free advisory services, 
such as Citizens Advice, Shelter or the Housing Loss Prevention Advice Service. We can 
provide contact details for those agencies, if Mr O would like us to. Alternatively, Mr O can 
speak to an independent financial adviser, details of which he can find on the Financial 
Conduct Authority website at www.fca.org.uk.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman