DRN-2475366
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt pay him enough for his 
stolen (and recovered) van when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M was offered £1,500 by Admiral after an independent engineer decided the van should 
be written-off. Mr M thought the claim had been delayed and that the van was worth at least 
£6,000, given the sum hed spent getting it to a roadworthy standard and starting to convert 
it to a campervan. He said the independent engineer had based the valuation on three 
adverts from an online sales site. He also said the engineer hadnt inspected the van in 
person and hadnt looked at trusted sites or sought an expert opinion, despite its rarity. 
Admiral accepted that there was a delay in dealing with the claim and offered Mr M £100 
compensation. It confirmed that the independent engineer had inspected the van in person 
and that hed later considered all the work Mr M had done to it, plus the list of parts hed 
supplied. But the engineer thought the work and the replacement of items required to allow 
the van to run properly didnt add any value to it. He said that as the conversion to a 
campervan wasnt complete, the van had to be valued in its unconverted state. He said the 
trusted sites Mr M had referred to showed only completed conversions. 
Mr M then complained to us about the valuation and the way it was arrived at. He thought 
the engineer had valued the damaged vehicle and hadnt considered the evidence hed 
provided. And he said the engineer was wrong to say that the van wasnt ready to drive 
away, when the thieves had done exactly that. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. He said we usually rely on the 
valuations set out in the national trade guides, as we dont generally regard adverts as 
reliable. But as Mr Ms van was 25 years old, only one of the guides had a valuation for it, 
which was £1,500. He said most of the money Mr M had spent on the van was to return it to 
a roadworthy standard, which didnt add value  and that the partial conversion didnt either. 
Mr M queried why his evidence hadnt been accepted and why we hadnt sought a report 
from a specialist dealer. He queried the definition of market value in the policy and said the 
investigator had ignored the private sellers prices shown on the trade guide valuation sheet. 
Mr M also said he thought hed insured the van for £5,000 initially. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt the role of this service to value vehicles, but we review whether an insurer has acted 
reasonably in arriving at the offer it made to a consumer for a vehicle. That means we look at 
the basis for the insurers offer, plus any information provided by the consumer. Were also 
able to carry out research into a vehicles value as part of our investigations. 
  
Mr M insured the van for £1,500 (not £5,000, as he thought may be the case). But in any 
event, as the sum an insurer pays for a vehicle isnt usually based on the sum it was insured 
for, I dont think that sum is relevant to the disputed issue. 
Admiral asked an independent engineer to consider the vans value. The duty of an 
independent engineer is to the court, so we usually think its reasonable for an insurer to rely 
on his or her assessment. Theres no benefit to an independent engineer in undervaluing a 
vehicle. 
In this case, the independent engineer said at the start that it was hard to value the van, 
given its age and part-converted state. He valued it in its pre-incident condition (before the 
theft damage occurred). The comment made about the van not being ready to drive away 
related to it not being immediately ready for use as a campervan, rather than not roadworthy. 
At the time, the van was being compared to others on the trusted websites Mr M had said 
the independent engineer should look at. The engineer said the vans he found there were all 
fully converted. In his view, they werent comparable to Mr Ms van for valuation purposes. 
I can see why the three adverts the independent engineer found led him to conclude that the 
van was probably only worth £1,500. One of the adverts was for parts of a van or repair, so it 
could be discounted. Another was for a van a year older than Mr Ms van (not converted) for 
sale at £950. The third van had been fully-converted to a campervan. It was three years 
newer than Mr Ms van and was on sale for £2,995.
The independent engineer noted that Mr M had bought parts for the van. He commented that 
as they were replacements of serviceable items (without which the van wouldnt be able to 
run) they didnt add value. We think thats a reasonable approach.  Modifications to the 
inside of a vehicle rarely add value, as they may not appeal to some potential purchasers 
(although had Mr Ms van been fully converted to an appropriate standard, I dont think 
theres any doubt that it would have been worth considerably more).   
 
We dont normally rely on advertised prices, as we think theyre unreliable. The prices of 
similar vehicles often vary considerably - and usually asking prices are inflated. In this case, 
the investigator found that as Mr Ms van was 25 years old, only one of the four national 
trade guides we use quoted for it, at £1,500. The guides valuations are based on likely 
selling prices across the market, based on nationwide research of similar available vehicles. 
Given the age and rarity of the van, there may have been fewer examples than usual for the 
trade guide to use. But that doesnt mean the valuation cant be relied on  and it supported 
the independent engineers initial view of the vans value. 
Ive looked at the adverts Mr M provided. In my opinion, most of them were for vans that 
werent comparable to his, as they were newer, or with much lower mileage  and in some 
cases, the year of registration and / or the mileage, werent shown.  I also looked for adverts 
showing vans of the same type as Mr Ms van, but most of them were for much newer 
vehicles. We then checked with a specialist dealer, who said a professionally converted van 
of the age of Mr Ms van could be worth at least £7,000 - but was unable to offer any 
guidance to us on the value of a van that was only part-converted. 
Mr M has said consistently that he only wants to be paid the sum the van was worth. As he 
spent several thousand pounds making it roadworthy, and more money on the partial 
conversion, I understand why he cant accept Admirals view that it hasnt increased in value. The investigator advised Mr M that it was open to him to provide us with an independent 
assessment of the vans value, which I would have considered as part of this review, but he 
decided not to do that. I can only base my decision on the details Ive seen from the parties, 
plus the research carried out as part of the review. Despite my sympathy for the position that 
Mr M has found himself in, I havent seen anything that persuades me that Admiral acted 
unreasonably in offering him £1,500 for his van. So Im not able to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman