DRN-2157481
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance, (PPI), policy.
What happened
Mrs N took out the PPI over the internet in 2002, at the same time as she took out a credit 
card.
Among other risks, the policy covered Mrs N for accident, sickness and unemployment. My 
decision deals only with this aspect of the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Canada Square had made the policys costs and benefits 
clear enough to Mrs N. And, taking into account Mrs Ns circumstances, our adjudicator 
didnt think that Mrs N would have thought the policy was good value for her if it had done 
so. And she wouldnt have bought it. 
Canada Square didnt agree with our adjudicators view. So the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ns complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ns complaint because I dont think that Canada Square made 
the cost and benefits of the policy clear enough to her. I say this because Ive seen a sample 
of the on-line screen dealing with PPI that Mrs N would have seen when she applied for her 
credit card. This did highlight that the cost was 74p for each £100 of the monthly credit card 
statement.  But it didnt say that the premiums would have been added to her balance. This 
meant that if she didnt clear the balance each month, interest would have been payable on 
them. Nor did it say that Mrs N needed to continue to pay the premiums while she was 
claiming benefit under the policy; so making the benefits less than they would have first 
appeared. I havent seen anything else to show that this additional information was given to 
Mrs N some other way before she agreed to take the policy. 
I think that this would have mattered to Mrs N. I say this because she has told us that she 
was entitled to twelve months sick pay from her employer and that she also had some 
savings. This means that had she been off work she would have been able to keep up her 
credit card repayments for a reasonable time. So had Mrs N been told the additional 
information about the premiums and benefits I dont think that she would have felt her need 
for the policy justified its cost. So she wouldnt have taken it.
This means that Mrs N has lost out because of what Canada Square did wrong.
As Ive explained above, Ive considered everything that Canada Square and Mrs N have 
told us. Canada Square has pointed out that, in her response to us, Mrs N gave us a name 
for her employer at the time of the PPI sale which differed from its own records. Im satisfied 
that this was a simple name change and that both names related to the same entity. 
Canada Square also pointed out that Mrs N chose not to provide it with a completed 
insurance questionnaire when it first investigated her complaint. And as she has now told us 
about her employment entitlement, it considers this to be a change in testimony in relation 
to sick pay. Had Mrs N initially said that she wasnt entitled to sick pay, or that the level of 
sick pay she was entitled to was different from that she subsequently told us she would have 
got, then I might agree that there had been such a change. But I dont think its reasonable to 
construe a failure to give any information at all about sick pay, followed by details at a later 
date, as a change. 
Further, I have seen a copy of the complaint letter that was sent to Canada Square by 
Mrs Ns complaint management company on her behalf. This said that there was a 
questionnaire attached to it. Of course, I cant be completely sure what questionnaire was 
attached, if any. But I note that the letter was dated eight days after the date of the only 
questionnaire I have seen, and which refers to Mrs N being entitled to twelve months sick 
pay. Mrs N has also said that her level of sick pay was based on her length of service and 
the managerial position she held within her employment. I find that Ive nothing on which to 
conclude that Mrs N has been in any way inconsistent about what she has said about this 
benefit, either to us or to Canada Square, or on which to doubt what she has told us.
So these points and all the others made by Canada Square do not change my decision.
Putting things right
Canada Square should put Mrs N into the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out the PPI.
A. Canada Square should find out how much Mrs N would have owed when she closed her 
credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Canada Square should then refund the difference between what Mrs N owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.B. Canada Square should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs N would 
have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Canada Square works out what Mrs N would have owed each month without 
PPI  Mrs N paid more than enough to clear her balance, Canada Square should also 
pay simple interest on the extra Mrs N paid. And it should carry on paying interest until 
the point when Mrs N would have owed Canada Square something on her credit card. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. Canada Square should tell Mrs N what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Canada Square to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above my decision is that I uphold this complaint. And I order 
Canada Square Operations Limited to pay Mrs N compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman