DRN-2729028
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Billing Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss S under a hire purchase agreement with Billing Finance 
that she signed in March 2019. She had an issue with the cars gearbox in June 2019 and 
the supplier paid for the gearbox to be replaced and upgraded her warranty as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Miss S complained to Billing Finance about other issues with the car in August 2019 and a 
faulty sensor was replaced under the warranty. She contacted Billing Finance in September 
2020 about repair and other costs that shed incurred on the car but it said that they were 
serviceable items and it wasnt liable for them. 
She complained to Billing Finance again in December 2020 and said that the head gasket 
had failed and that she was no longer prepared to pay for the car. It arranged for the car to 
be inspected by an independent expert in January 2021. The inspection report concluded 
that the car had faults with its battery and cylinder head gasket but that those faults wouldnt 
have been present or developing when the car was supplied to Miss S. Billing Finance didnt 
uphold her complaint but she wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
problems were due to a reasonable level of wear and tear and that the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. He didnt think that it would be fair to ask Billing 
Finance to do anything more to resolve Miss Ss complaint.
Miss S has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that she 
hasnt used the car much but has had to pay for lots of work to be done on it and the head 
gasket has now failed. She says that she doesn't want the car and can't afford the monthly 
payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Billing Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss S - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Miss S was more than seven years, had been driven for 
about 63,000 miles and had a price of £4,000;
Miss S complained to the dealer about an issue with the cars gearbox in June 2019 
and it paid for the gearbox to be replaced  it also upgraded her warranty as a 
gesture of goodwill;
Miss S complained to Billing Finance about other issues with the car in August 2019 
and a faulty sensor was replaced under the warranty  Billing Finance says that she 
confirmed that she was happy with the repairs and a final response was issued to her 
in September 2019;
Miss S contacted Billing Finance in September 2020 about costs that shed incurred 
on the car relating to a replacement clutch, replacement brake discs and pads, 
replacement gasket manifold, servicing, a failed MOT test due to a handbrake issue, 
replacement front tyres, a failed alternator and a replacement battery;
it said that they were serviceable items so it wasnt liable for them and Im not 
persuaded that Miss S has provided enough evidence to show that those repairs and 
other work were required because of any faults or issues with the car that were 
present when it was supplied to her  and many of those costs relate to wear and 
tear items and the running costs of a car  for which Billing Finance wouldnt be 
liable;
Miss S complained to Billing Finance again in December 2020 and said that the head 
gasket had failed and that she was no longer prepared to pay for the car;
it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in January 2021 - 
the inspection report shows the cars mileage was 70,024 and it said:
We would conclude that both the apparent battery and cylinder head gasket 
faults both require further investigation as we were unable to complete a 
combustion leak test we cannot confirm [nor] deny if the vehicles cylinder head 
gasket is allowing exhaust gases to escape. However, due to the time and 
mileage that has elapsed since the date of vehicle purchase we do not consider 
either fault to have been present and/or developing at the point of vehicle sale. 
The defect/s reported are considered a maintenance repair on a vehicle. This 
type of defect can present at any mileage due to operating conditions, usage and 
basically are ageing related defects or even is some instances deterioration due 
to operator interaction. They are repairs to keep the vehicle in use and 
serviceable, these repairs are often required just as servicing type maintenance. 
If the fault had been present at hire it would have materialised in the first 500 
miles of use;
the head gasket failed in December 2020  about 21 months after the car had been 
supplied to Miss S and in that time shed been able to drive about 7,000 miles in it  I 
dont consider it to be likely that shed have been able to do so if the faults with the 
battery and cylinder head gasket identified in the inspection report had been present 
or developing when the car was supplied to her;
if they had been present or developing when the car was supplied to her, I consider it 
to be reasonable to expect that the faults would have become apparent sooner than 
they did and that Miss S wouldnt have been able to drive 7,000 miles in the car;
there have clearly been some issues with the car but I consider that the replacement 
gearbox and sensor were appropriate responses to those issues and I consider that 
the dealer and Billing Finance acted fairly and reasonably in response to those 
issues;Miss S says that she doesnt want the car and cant afford to make the monthly 
payments - I sympathise with her for the issues that shes had with the car and the 
other difficulties that shes described but Im not persuaded that the current issues 
with the car are enough to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to her; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Billing Finance to allow Miss S to reject the car, to pay for it to be repaired, to pay her 
any compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
Miss S says that she cant afford to make the monthly payments under the agreement. If she 
hasnt already done so, I suggest that she contacts Billing Finance about her monthly 
payments and her options under the agreement. Its required to respond to any financial 
difficulties that shes experiencing positively and sympathetically. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman