DRN-2870855
The complaint
Ms C says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000. The policy was added to 
Ms Cs credit card account by phone, shortly after shed applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. MBNA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Cs case.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Cs complaint because on balance I think its unlikely she was 
eligible for the policy. I say this because Ms C has told me she was employed on a 
temporary basis when she took out the policy. The policy terms didnt allow for customers in 
temporary work to be covered by the policy. This means the policy wasnt of any use to Ms 
C. 
MBNA says that when it spoke to Ms C about her complaint in 2020, she said she was 
employed by a different employer and didnt mention that her employment was temporary. 
Ive noted everything MBNA has said, and I accept that Ms Cs more recent evidence 
appears to contradict the information she provided when she took out the PPI.
But MBNA has also provided a copy of Ms Cs credit card application form. The employer 
details on the form were for an agency that Ms C was working for. On balance I consider the 
employment details on the form are likely to be more accurate than those Ms C provided 
when she spoke to MBNA more recently  keeping in mind that she was being asked to 
remember details from over twenty years ago.
As Ms C was undertaking agency work I consider it likely that her employment was carried 
out on a temporary basis. So as Ive already said, I consider it unlikely that she was eligible 
for the policy.
I dont think Ms C would have bought the policy if she had realised she wasnt eligible. So, I 
think Ms C has lost out because of what the business did wrong.
  
Putting things right
MBNA should put Ms C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. MBNA should find out how much Ms C would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Ms C owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
MBNA can also take off any commission refund it has already paid to Ms C. 
B. MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms C would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when MBNA works out what Ms C would have owed each month without PPI  Ms C 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Ms C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms C 
wouldve owed MBNA something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year
D. MBNA should tell Ms C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct MBNA Limited to pay compensation to Ms 
C in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman