DRN-2915425
The complaint
Mr S complained that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) 
irresponsibly increased the credit limit on his catalogue shopping account.
What happened
Mr S opened a catalogue account with Very when he signed a credit agreement on 16 May 
2012. The account had a credit limit of £1000 and Mr S was able to buy catalogue items up 
to the value of his credit limit. Under the terms of the agreement the credit limit could be 
varied. Mr S had to make at least the minimum repayment on each monthly statement. 
This table shows details of the changes made to Mr Ss credit limit:  
Date Change to credit limit Credit limit
16 May 2012 Opening limit £1,000
17 May 2014 +£200 £1,200
4 October 2014 +£200 £1,400
12 December 2016 -£300 £1,100
24 November 2018 +£500 £1,600
11 May 2019 +£300 £1,900
23 November 2019 +£1000 £2,900
Mr S said hed always had the automatic credit increase option on his account and things 
had been fine until May/June 2019. But he felt that his credit limit shouldnt have been 
increased in May and November 2019 when he was only making the minimum payments on 
the account and he had been using a high level of credit. Mr S felt that Very shouldve 
checked to ensure credit limit increases were affordable for him and felt that hed become 
trapped in debt leading to stress and worry.
Very told us that Mr S made a payment of £1867.82 on 8 January 2020 to clear his 
balance in full and no further activity has taken place on the account.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. She didnt think that Very had done 
anything wrong when increasing Mr Ss credit limit or that it had treated him in any other 
way unfairly or unreasonably. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Mr S mainly feels that it cant be right that Very increased his credit limit when he wasnt able 
at the time to obtain any credit elsewhere and he was refused a loan with a mainstream 
lender which he had hoped to use to help pay off some of his other debt. 
He told us that he wasn't offered any automatic rises on his long standing credit cards which 
he had held for a number of years, yet Very gave him three rises of £500, £300 and £1000 in 
the space of a year  and the last two happened, he said, when he wasnt in the best place 
financially. He wanted to understand how it was that he passed credit checks with Very.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Very needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and Mr Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Very should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr S told us he was happy with the way the account had operated up until May 2019. And 
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Very acted unfairly or unreasonably when it initially 
set up the account or when it applied variations to Mr Ss credit limit before this. So Ive 
concentrated on whether Very did what it needed to before it increased Mr Ss credit limit in 
May 2019 and November 2019.
May 2019
Very sent us some general information about its approach to lending which includes the 
following:
All account application decisions are made using a combination of information obtained 
from our customers, our internal information and customer data provided from credit bureaus 
to assess affordability and creditworthiness.
Mr Ss credit limit was £1600 until he placed an order on 11 May 2019 which wouldve taken 
him over that account limit. Very told us that external checks were completed and an 
additional £300 was made available to him once it assessed this would be affordable. It 
relied on a credit check that showed Mr S was up to date with all payments to creditors, there were no defaults showing on his credit history that mightve indicated he had any 
serious money problems, and he had one credit card with a balance of £560. It didnt appear 
that Mr S had opened any new credit accounts within the previous 6 months. There were no 
arears on his Very account and hed been making his repayments to the account on time. 
Taking all this into account and thinking about the way Mr S had been successfully operating 
his account, Very was satisfied that the increased credit limit would be sustainably affordable 
for Mr S.
I dont think there was anything in the information that Very gathered at the time which 
should have caused a responsible lender any additional concerns about Mr Ss financial 
situation at the time or that ought reasonably to have led Very to the conclusion that this 
credit limit increase wouldnt be sustainably affordable for him. 
And Ive no good reason to think that its more likely than not that further checks would 
have shown that Mr S wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay a balance of £1,900 
within a reasonable period of time. From looking at the details Very has provided from his 
account history it appears that Mr S was managing the account well. And I think its fair to 
say that the £300 uplift was a relatively small increase on the account. 
Mr S said that at the time he was paying 3 credit cards and mostly managing only the 
minimum payments alongside trying to pay Very whilst also keeping up repayments on two 
loans at that time which werent mentioned in the report.
But its worth remembering that a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some data might be missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that 
not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So a 
lenders credit check might not show all the information someone could see (or expect to 
see) on their own credit file.
And looking at Mr Ss bank statements from around this time, in May 2019 I can see that 
Mr S was paying a number of creditors. Over the course of the month this left him 
approximately £140 overdrawn for a few days before his next pay went into the account  
taking his balance back up to £1,480. I havent seen enough to make me think that Mr S had 
such a high level of debt that it wasnt right for Very to have increased his credit limit at that 
time. And had Very gathered more information about Mr Ss finances I dont think it would 
have found out anything which would have been of such concern it should have declined to 
lend to him.
And I think this is borne by the fact that the following month he had a returned direct debit 
and he paid out of the account nearly £700 more than he paid into it. But the month after his 
finances seem to have stabilised  he started and ended the month in credit and spent no 
more than was paid into the account. 
So, thinking about the three months or so following the credit limit increase in May 2019, 
whilst I sympathise with Mr S when he says he felt he was struggling financially, I dont think 
I can fairly say that Verys checks demonstrated this  or that what I've seen on his bank 
statements is enough to make me think that his finances were under serious stress. 
Looked at overall, I dont think that Verys decision to increase Mr Ss credit limit to 
£1,900 was unreasonable or unfair. So Im not upholding his complaint about the 
credit limit increase in May 2019.
November 2019This credit limit increase was by far the most substantial taking Mr Ss potential spending 
limit up to nearly three times the limit at the start when he opened the account. And, as Mr S 
has mentioned, it was the third limit increase within a year. 
So I think Very needed to ensure it had a detailed understanding of Mr Ss financial situation 
before providing his credit limit increase.  
Very hasnt said exactly what it relied on in order to conclude that Mr S would be able to 
sustainably repay a credit limit of £2,900. It said it looked at the way hed managed his 
account and relied, amongst other things, on a multitude of external credit information. So 
I dont think I can fairly say that Very carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on this 
occasion. 
Its credit checks showed that he now had two credit cards (one more than its credit checks 
in April 2019 had shown). He had four live credit accounts (up from two in April 2019). His 
credit card balance had gone up £177 or so. But none of this told Very anything about 
Mr Ss disposable income at the time, or his ability to sustainably repay the extra £1000 
Very was offering. 
  
Having looked at Mr Ss bank statements Ive seen that in November 2019 his account had 
started and ended the month overdrawn  and hed spent more money than hed paid in, so 
the overdraft had increased. He made a payment of around £183 to a lender that I dont 
know if Verys checks identified. This followed on from the month before when there was a 
similar pattern and the overall picture was now of a persistently overdrawn account despite 
Mr Ss salary being paid in. This is borne out by his December 2019 bank statement which 
shows Mr S was making no real inroads into his debt.  
So I think its possible that if Very had done a proportionate check before it provided 
this credit limit increase it wouldve likely found out at least some of this information  
and I think Very, as a responsible lender, would have realised that it couldnt be 
satisfied that Mr S would be likely to be able to repay an account balance of £2,900 
within a reasonable period of time  and so it shouldnt have provided this limit 
increase. 
But it appears that Mr S didnt take advantage of this increase in his credit limit  Very told 
us that although the credit limit reached a maximum amount of £2900.00 in November 
2019, Mr S total balance peaked at £1955.91 in October 2019. So, I cant fairly say that 
hes lost out financially by paying more interest and charges or having adverse information 
recorded on his credit file solely as a result of the increased limit on the account since he 
never used it. 
This means that theres nothing Very needs to do to put things right.  
So this is why Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about the credit limit increase Very applied 
to his account in November 2019.
The fact that other lenders didnt offer Mr S credit limit increases doesnt mean that Very 
acted unfairly or unreasonably when it did. 
And the fact that Mr S told us he often made only the minimum repayments to the account 
isnt a sufficient reason, looking at Mr Ss particular circumstances, for me to uphold this 
complaint. 
Did Very act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?Ive thought carefully about everything provided. As far as I can see Very responded 
appropriately in September 2014 when a payment issue was quickly resolved by Mr S 
making a payment of £38.13 to bring the account up to date. Very told us that although the 
account occasionally fell into arears it was always brought up to date before the next 
statement. That makes me think that any payment issues were the result of an oversight or 
something else that was easily sorted out  not an indication of serious money 
management problems. And I cant see anything to suggest Mr S told Very he needed more 
time to pay or that he wanted to opt out of automatic credit limit increases  which he was 
aware was an option. So I havent seen enough overall to make me think that Very acted 
towards Mr S in any way that was unfair or unreasonable so as to warrant me awarding any 
redress.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr S sent me detailed comments, confirming that he understood in parts why I wasnt 
planning on upholding his complaint and updating me on his financial situation. Mr S told me 
he has been able to very substantially improve his credit position and deal with outstanding 
debt. He remains concerned that Very exploited his financial situation when it increased his 
credit as it hasnt offered him any recent increases despite him using his account and having 
a much stronger credit rating which has attracted offers of credit deals from other lenders. 
Very asked for a two week extension to respond - but that was around three weeks ago and 
it still hasnt responded to what I've said in my provisional decision. As the deadline for 
responses ended some time ago I dont think its fair to keep Mr S waiting for a decision any 
longer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr S for responding in detail to my provisional decision. I am glad that Mr S says he now 
feels on top of his finances. And I am pleased to learn that Very appears to have taken on 
board his concerns about its unasked for credit limit increases  especially as Mr S told me 
he has now turned off the automatic increase in credit option on his account  and that he 
has not had any further unsolicited uplifts in his Very account credit limit. 
I would like to assure Mr S that Ive taken carefully into account everything that he has said, 
including his comments in response to my provisional decision. Mr S hasnt provided me with 
any new information that changes what I think about his original complaint. Id already 
considered the main points he mentioned when thinking about my provisional decision and 
addressed all the points raised which had a bearing on the outcome. I can understand that 
Mr S is disappointed in the outcome of at least parts of his complaint but I hope that setting 
things out as Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my overall view. 
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman