DRN-4076764
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the repairs that AXA Insurance UK Plc carried out on her motorhome 
following a claim on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to pay £8,000 to have the 
motorhome repaired correctly.
What happened
AXA carried out repairs to Mrs Ms motorhome. But Mrs M was unhappy that it had made 
repairs that she hadnt authorised, that it had changed original logos, and that it left a bulge 
on the vans passenger side. An engineer quoted £8,000 for further repairs. But AXA would 
only offer her £3,500 for repairs and £325 compensation. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
wasnt sufficient evidence to show that the repairer had carried out unauthorised work or that 
the logos werent a good match. He didnt see evidence that the repairer had caused the 
bulge in the passenger side. He thought AXA had offered Mrs M cash for the rectification of 
repairs it was responsible for. He thought its offer of £325 compensation was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mrs M replied that AXAs engineer and an independent assessor had calculated that her van 
needed repairs costed at £8,000. She thought AXAs offer of £3,500 wasnt sufficient. And 
she said she hadnt authorised the repairs to the passenger side. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs M wants her van fully repaired after it was damaged by vandals. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether how or damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
AXA thought it wasnt responsible for the repairer as it was non-approved, and Mrs M had 
chosen it. But I dont think this was fair and reasonable. AXA told Mrs M that it didnt have a 
suitable repairer on its network and so she would have to identify one herself. So it wasnt 
Mrs Ms decision to use a non-approved repairer and so I think AXA is responsible for its 
actions. 
Ive looked at the history of the claim. Mrs M said vandals had damaged the drivers side of 
the van. But when the van was in for repairs, the non-approved repairer told AXA that Mrs M 
had pointed out damage on the passenger side. 
AXAs engineer authorised this further repair as part of the same claim as it looked similar to 
the vandals damage on the other side of the van. I think AXA reasonably relied on the 
repairers email as evidence that Mrs M wanted this damage included in the claim. So I cant 
say it did anything wrong in this. If Mrs M thinks the repairer misrepresented her, then she 
should complain to it. 
Mrs M was unhappy with the repairs carried out. So AXA instructed an independent engineer 
to inspect the van and further minor repairs were made. Mrs M remained unhappy, so the 
independent engineer reinspected the vans passenger side. 
AXAs engineer considered his second report and thought the lump on the passenger side 
was due to previous poor repairs and it was evident before repairs were started. Ive looked 
at this report, dated 8 August 2022, and I can see that the independent engineer established 
this from photographs provided by Mrs M before repairs were started. I can also see that 
another insurer is dealing with this under a previous claim and the engineer said this was 
related to damp issues noted by Mrs M. 
Ive also seen a letter from AXA to Mrs M that states that the van needs £8,000 rectification 
work. But this includes rectification of the previous poor repairs. And I cant hold AXA 
responsible for these. Its only responsible for repairs related to the current claim and any 
rectification work needed for these. 
The repairer said it would cost £3,500 to carry out repairs identified in the independent 
assessors report, but not replace any parts. So I think it was fair and reasonable for AXA to 
rely on this estimate. 
Mrs M was unhappy that the logos on the sides of the van had been changed. But AXAs 
engineer explained that the originals werent available and so a specialist had made them to 
match the previous ones. I dont have evidence to show that this is incorrect.
AXA considered the second independent engineers report and it offered Mrs M £3,500 cash 
in lieu of repairs as Mrs M didnt want to use the repairer again. It thought this was a 
reasonable compromise to settle Mrs Ms complaint. This amount was for repairs and for 
paintwork, but not to replace a panel. 
Mrs M appointed her own independent engineer to inspect the repairs and, from what I can 
see, he found them to be satisfactory.
So I think AXA reasonably considered all the available evidence and justified its decision to 
pay Mrs M £3,500 for the further repairs to her van. I think its for Mrs M to decide whether or 
not to accept its offer. 
AXA did agree that its service could have been better. It hadnt provided Mrs M with the 
terms and conditions for the non-approved repairer which it had authorised for the repairs as 
it didnt have a specialist repairer in its network. It hadnt returned Mrs Ms call. It paid Mrs M 
£325 compensation for this. And I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
published guidance. I dont require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman