DRN-3344601
The complaint
Mr O complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn.
Mr O experienced issues with the car which he reported tom Moneybarn in September 2021. 
These included 
Tyres needed replacing
Brakes
Starter motor
Battery
Air conditioning
MR O told Moneybarn that hed had to pay for repairs to the clutch in February 2021, and for 
repairs to the flywheel in July 2021. He also said hed paid for three new tyres. Mr O said he 
was unhappy about the amount of money hed had to spend on repairs.
Moneybarn investigated Mr Os concerns but found that all the issues were due to wear and 
tear.
Mr O wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to say 
that the car was of unsatisfactory quality, and that it was more likely that the faults were due 
to wear and tear.
Mr O didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality of they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general condition, and other things including fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
I would expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr O  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repair more often than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold 
this complaint, I would need to be satisfied  that theres a fault with the car which was 
present at the point of sale and which made it of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply, 
as opposed to a  fault which occurred due to general wear and tear.
Under the relevant legislation, where a car isnt of satisfactory quality in the first 6 months, its 
assumed that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, unless the business can 
show otherwise. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer 
to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed all of the available evidence about the issues which occurred with the car. Ive 
seen invoices which show that repairs were carried out to the clutch in February 2021, and 
again in July 2021 when a new flywheel was fitted. Mr O has said that he also replaced three 
tyres.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the clutch. However, just 
because there was a fault doesnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. The clutch was repaired around 13 months after Mr O got the car. So, its up to 
Mr O to show that the clutch was faulty at the point of supply. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that this was the case. I can see that Mr O had the car for over a year and had 
covered over 5000 miles by the time the clutch failed. As Ive already said, Id expect a car of 
this age and mileage to have some wear and tear and to require repairs. If there had been a 
fault with the clutch at the point of supply, I dont think Mr O wouldve been able to cover the 
mileage that he has, and I wouldve expected the  clutch to fail sooner than it did. On 
balance, I think its more likely that the fault with the clutch was due to general wear and 
tear.
Ive thought about the other issues that Mr O experienced with the car. I appreciate that hes 
had to replace some tyres. However, tyres are a serviceable item on a car and I think a 
reasonable person would expect to replace tyres several times over the lifetime of a car. So 
again, I dont think the fact that Mr O had to replace he tyres means that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
I understand that Mr O is frustrated by the issues which have occurred with the car. 
However, having considered the nature of the faults, and reviewed the available evidence, 
there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the faults were present at the point of 
supply, or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. Because of this, I wont 
be asking Moneybarn to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman