DRN-2223610
The complaint
Ms I complains the compensation paid by Scottish Widows Limited in respect of an incorrect 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of her deferred annuity bond doesnt reflect the 
impact its had on her. 
Ms I is represented in this complaint by her partner Mr R. 
What happened
Ms I has a fully paid up group deferred annuity bond with Scottish Widows, which is a bulk 
buy-out plan arising from a wound-up final salary scheme. In 2009 Ms I was unfortunately 
diagnosed with a neurological condition which affects her mobility. She had a clerical job and 
was able to reduce her hours to continue working part-time. 
In 2016-17 Ms I suffered more frequent relapses and was diagnosed with the more serious 
progressive version of her condition, meaning her health was likely to continue to 
deteriorate. Ms I and Mr R decided to assess their finances, with a view to Ms I stopping 
work. In July 2017, aged 51, Ms I asked Scottish Widows for a CETV of her bond. She 
wanted to transfer away from Scottish Widows to take her benefits flexibly, as her bond 
limited her to purchasing an annuity, or a lump sum and reduced annuity. The tax-free cash 
element was more important to Ms I than income, as she hoped to take an extensive 
overseas trip to visit family and friends combined with a holiday. 
Scottish Widows sent Ms I a CETV dated 13 July 2017 of just under £132,000, so the 25% 
tax-free lump sum would be about £33,000. The letter advised Ms I to seek financial advice, 
and said she was entitled to one such quotation in any twelve-month period. Ms I used 
online annuity calculator tools to assess what her income would be in retirement. Having 
done so she decided even combined with savings, the trip theyd planned wasnt affordable, 
so she carried on working. Ms I was off sick from December 2018 until she was made 
redundant in March 2019 when her employer ceased trading. 
In May 2019 Scottish Widows wrote to Ms I to say following a review thered been a mistake 
in the quote in 2017. It had been using out of date rates and process which assessed the 
transfer value as lower than it should have been. So the correct CETV in 2017 was just 
under £182,000, and the current value (as at April 2019) was around £186,100. The letter 
apologised for the error and invited Ms I to explain what shed have done differently if shed 
received the correct valuation in 2017, so the impact could be assessed. Ms I said shed 
have been able to stop working sooner which might have slowed the progress of her 
symptoms. And the higher tax-free cash would have enabled her and Mr R to take the once-
in-a-lifetime extended overseas trip theyd planned, which she cant now do as her health 
has deteriorated. When asked for evidence of firm plans, Ms I said shed shredded all the 
annuity quotes and hadnt retained any information about the overseas trip. And she hadnt  
consulted a financial advisor, as Mr R had previously transferred his bond without advice. 
Scottish Widows said it hadnt known about Ms Is diagnosis, so didnt have the opportunity 
to explain the options open to her, such as early retirement on ill health grounds. It couldnt 
assess the impact without evidence of what Ms I would have done if the CETV had been 
correct. But in recognition of the quote being wrong it upheld the complaint and paid £2,000 
compensation. 
Ms I banked the cheque but feels the amount is totally inadequate and wont even cover the 
financial advisors fees shell now have to pay. Shed seen no reason to tell Scottish 
Widows about her medical condition when all she wanted was a CETV. As she cant now 
take the trip, Scottish Widows should pay £50,000 with which she could purchase a modified 
motorhome to tour the UK. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said Ms I would 
always have needed to pay for financial advice as the law has required that since 2015. She 
empathised with Ms Is situation but overall thought the compensation was what our service 
would consider for severe impacts, so she didnt think Scottish Widows needed to pay 
more. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in September 2020 in which I didnt uphold the 
complaint. But I wanted to give both parties the opportunity to provide any further evidence 
they wished me to consider.  
My provisional findings (in summary)
Ms I wants compensation of £50,000 (roughly the difference between the two 
valuations) but Im satisfied she hasnt actually suffered a financial loss;
The loss would only have crystallised if shed transferred and received the lower 
valuation. So I didnt think Scottish Widows should pay her £50,000;
Ms I would need to transfer to take her benefits flexibly. To do so shed need financial 
advice to ensure the loss of benefits resulting from a transfer out of a defined benefit 
scheme was in in her best interests;
The pension scheme is unlikely to have permitted the transfer without evidence 
advice had been sought and given;
As Ms I didnt take financial advice in 2017 or subsequently, its not possible to say 
what that advice would have been, so I cant say for sure shed have transferred 
even with a higher CETV;
The investigator was correct to say Ms I would always have needed financial advice 
so theres no reason to increase the compensation on that basis;
Ms I was too young in 2017 to access her pension benefits, as she doesnt reach 55 
until December 2020;
She might have been eligible to take her benefits early on ill health grounds, either if 
she stayed with Scottish Widows or transferred to another provider;
To do so would require medical evidence to show Ms I was incapable of continuing in 
her occupation due to a physical or medical impairment (or had ceased working for 
that reason);
She didnt leave her job until March 2019, not on ill health grounds but under 
redundancy as the company ceased trading; 
Its hard to say shed have been eligible for early retirement on ill health grounds two 
years earlier, while at the same time being well enough to consider a three-month 
long-haul overseas trip; 
Ms I and Mr R might have discussed the trip which they thought would cost £12,000-
£16,000, but their plans were in the very early stages;
The September CETV is more than £227,000, and Ms I can take her benefits without 
transferring when she reaches 55 in December 2020 if she wishes; While I appreciated Ms Is disappointment that she cant now take the extensive trip 
shed hoped, I didnt think Scottish Widows needed to pay more than the £2,000 
already paid. 
Responses to provisional decision
Scottish Widows didnt have anything to add. But Mr R responded on behalf of Ms I, and I 
thank him for his detailed submissions. Ive amended some aspects of the background in 
light of his comments.
Mr R said (in summary)
I havent appreciated the seriousness of the progressive nature of Ms Is condition 
and the impact on her health and future;
£2,000 may be what this service would recommend for a severe impact, but its 
insufficient for someone with a disability where the impact is magnified, (recognising 
Scottish Widows couldnt have known this);
Theyve never claimed Ms I suffered an actual financial loss; 
I havent taken into consideration that Ms I thought shed be charged £100 per hour 
for obtaining another quote from Scottish Widows;
Scottish Widows was negligent in making such a big mistake in the value of the 
CETV;
Ms I didnt stop work only because her employer had been accommodating, 
gradually reducing her hours and workload. She was off sick a lot before being made 
redundant; 
They had taken some holidays, but decided against the extensive trip they planned 
due to uncertainties about Ms Is financial future; 
Ms I hasnt needed to access her pension yet as she receives disability benefit and 
Mr R is eligible for a carers allowance;
If shed received the higher CETV in 2017 Ms I would definitely have transferred 
away from Scottish Widows and released the tax-free cash. But as they needed 
£16,000 for the trip, £25,000 for home adaptations and £3,000 for financial advisor 
fees, the tax-free cash based on the lower valuation wasnt enough;
Banking the compensation cheque was to fund legal advice, it doesnt mean Ms I 
accepted it as resolution to the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded to change the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why. 
Im really sorry Mr R has the impression I dont appreciate the seriousness of Ms Is 
condition and the impact on her health and the future shed hoped for. That wasnt my 
intention and Im in no way questioning the diagnosis or the devastating consequences for 
Ms I. But Scottish Widows wasnt made aware of Ms Is condition so couldnt have known 
about the impact on her of the incorrect CETV. Prior to retirement its usually welcome to find 
out your pension is worth more than expected, so it was fair of Scottish Widows to ask for 
evidence of what Ms I would have done. And unfortunately while Ms I described her plans 
for the money she wasnt able to provide evidence. So Scottish Widows paid substantial 
compensation in recognition of Ms Is circumstances, even though it hadnt been made 
aware of them at the time. I accept Ms I decided not to pursue her plans further when she received the CETV in 2017, 
and she had no way of knowing it might be undervalued. But she made that decision without 
finding out for sure if shed be able to transfer her pension away from Scottish Widows. And 
having done so, if shed be able to take her benefits prior to 55, which she could only do on 
ill health grounds, requiring her to show she was incapable of continuing to do her job. While 
her employer might have been accommodating I cant overlook she didnt leave her job on 
medical advice two years later in 2019, when her symptoms had deteriorated. So theres a 
difficulty in saying that in 2017 Ms I was both too ill to work, yet well enough to consider an 
extensive long-haul trip. 
The CETV was only guaranteed for a month from 13 July 2017, so as Ms I hadnt yet 
engaged a financial advisor it may have needed to be recalculated anyway. And given Ms Is 
health deteriorated throughout 2018 it seems theyd have had quite a narrow window in 
which to seek financial advice, arrange the transfer to another provider, take her benefits 
early on ill health grounds, release the tax-free cash, and plan and embark on an extensive 
overseas trip involving three continents. 
Mr R says since theyve now accepted Ms I would have needed financial advice, even 
though he wasnt required to, it neednt be mentioned in the decision. But that was one of 
their complaint points and I think its an important factor. Ms Is bond provides the benefits 
she was entitled to under her defined benefit (final salary) pension scheme, which is a 
guaranteed income for life. So the decision to transfer to a defined contribution (money 
purchase) scheme is a serious one. Any potential advantages can be outweighed by the 
costs, risks and loss of benefits involved. Unlike a money purchase scheme, the benefits 
from her bond are protected from the economic climate, which Mr R is concerned about. And 
thered be ongoing charges which can erode the value. So while I understand why Ms I 
wanted to take her benefits flexibly, its not certain the advice would have supported the 
transfer. 
The 2017 CETV said Ms I could only have one quote in a twelve-month period, but she 
didnt request another quote a year later. Mr R says this is because she thought shed be 
charged. The letter with Ms Is bond from October 2008 said Scottish Widows could provide 
a current transfer value, but speculative quotes for ages 50, 55 and 60 would incur a charge 
of £100 an hour. At the time Ms I was only 42, so I think Scottish Widows was advising it 
would charge for the work required for its actuaries to calculate the potential transfer value of 
her bond 8, 13 or 18 years into the future. I dont think it meant to suggest that once Ms I 
reached the age of 50 shed be charged for an annual transfer value, as that wouldnt be a 
speculative quote. But unfortunately Ms I didnt contact Scottish Widows to check, or to find 
out if there was a charge how much it would be, as it might be a cost she was willing to pay.  
Had she done so its likely thered have been the opportunity to discuss the options open to 
her, including eligibility for ill health retirement. 
Mr R is concerned about the difference between the two valuations, but I cant agree 
Scottish Widows was negligent. A CETV is calculated by working out the lump sum that will 
be required to provide an equivalent pension to the scheme pension at the members 
retirement age, reduced according to how far someone is from retirement. And its based on 
a number of variables such as interest rates, investment returns and mortality rates. Scottish 
Widows has explained it regularly reviews the way it carries out these calculations. And it 
realised it had been using out-dated rates and methods and so carried out a recalculation. 
This revealed the value in 2017 would have been higher, but it might have gone the other 
way. 
I think Scottish Widows was entitled to review its calculations. And its unfortunate that in Ms Is particular circumstances finding out her pension was worth more than she originally 
thought hasnt benefited her, even though she hasnt needed to access it yet.  
Im really sorry Ms Is health means shes unable to take the trip she hoped for. But for the 
reasons explained above, Im not going to ask Scottish Widows to pay any more 
compensation than the £2,000 already paid.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman