DRN-3726021
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society dealt with his request for a refund of a 
payment he made using his Nationwide credit card.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr S booked return flights for him and his family for an overseas trip with an 
airline Ill call N. Mr S paid around £2,150 for the flights using his Nationwide VISA credit 
card. The flights were booked for August 2020. Mr S told us they werent able to go on their 
trip due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He said his wife contacted the airline but, as the tickets 
were non-refundable, N offered Mr S flight credit instead of the refund they wanted. Shortly 
after this, the flights that Mr S and his family had been booked on were cancelled. Then, in 
December 2021, N emailed Mrs S offering to extend the flight credit for 12 months.
 
In March 2021, Mr S got in touch with Nationwide to ask for a refund. It raised a dispute for 
him under a scheme known as chargeback. Nationwide credited the disputed amount to 
Mr Ss account. He then transferred this to another of his accounts. But N challenged the 
refund to Mr S. Nationwide told him it was re-debiting his account, but it would review his 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). This wasnt 
successful and Mr S complained.
 
Nationwide explained a refund wasnt due as the flights werent refundable, it was Mrs S who 
cancelled the flights, and the flight credit was offered as a gesture of goodwill. But it did 
accept it should have explained to Mr S earlier that the credit applied to his account when he 
raised the dispute could be reversed if N successfully challenged it. Nationwide offered Mr S 
£100 compensation. He declined this offer and brought his complaint to our service where it 
was looked at by one of our investigators.
 
Our investigator thought Nationwide had acted fairly by not taking the chargeback or Section 
75 claim any further. Mr S didnt agree. Briefly, he said Nationwide failed to inform him of the 
process and didnt stop him from transferring the disputed amount to another account even 
though it knew the refund could be reversed. Mr S also pointed out that N no longer flew to 
the destination he and his family were originally going to.
 
As the matter remains unresolved, this case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. First, Im very aware Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and largely in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is at 
the heart of the matter here: has Nationwide treated Mr S unreasonably by not giving him a 
refund?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
 
I would also point out that this complaint is against Nationwide. As such, Im only looking at if 
Nationwide has treated Mr S fairly and reasonably, not N. The actions of N dont fall within 
my remit here.
 
As Mr S used his credit card to book the flights with N, Nationwide had two options to pursue 
a refund for him  chargeback and Section 75. Its normal practice to try a chargeback first. 
A chargeback is a way in which payment settlement disputes can be resolved between card 
issuers, such as Nationwide, and merchants, such as N. These disputes are dealt with under 
the relevant card scheme rules. The card scheme here is VISA. In certain circumstances, 
this process provides a way for Nationwide to ask N to give Mr S a refund. This would 
include where goods or services arent supplied.
 
A chargeback isnt a consumer right. It doesnt guarantee a refund. Instead, its a process 
run entirely by the scheme provider under the rules that the provider sets. I would point out 
that Nationwide is under no obligation to submit a chargeback. But I would consider it good 
practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and there is a reasonable 
prospect of success.
 
I can see Nationwide attempted a chargeback for Mr S. But N defended this on the basis 
that the flights were non-refundable, and it was Mrs S who asked for them to be cancelled. I 
can see from the available evidence that Mrs S contacted N to check if they would be able to 
travel as planned in August. N told her if the flights went ahead but they werent able to 
travel, then their money would be lost. Instead, Mrs S accepted flight credit.
 
Ive looked at the booking confirmation for all the flights. I can see these state the type of 
fare paid was LowFare. Ive also looked at the terms and conditions for LowFare for the 
time the flights were booked. These show the tickets were non-refundable. So, N was 
correct when it told Mrs S they wouldnt get their money back if they didnt use the tickets. It 
was under no obligation to give them a refund. But it did give them flight credit instead.
 
I know the flights were subsequently cancelled. But that is something of a moot point as, by 
this time, Mr S and his family were no longer passengers on these flights as they didnt have 
an active booking, they had flight credit instead. When N defended the chargeback request, I 
dont think Nationwide had any grounds to challenge this as Mr S had been given flight credit 
and his tickets were non-refundable. So, Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably 
by not pursuing the chargeback request any further as there was no reasonable prospect of 
success.
 
It could be argued that there was never any reasonable prospect of a chargeback being 
successful, but I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Nationwide to attempt it. 
Nationwide accepts that it should have told Mr S sooner that, while his account had been 
credited with the disputed amount, there was no guarantee the claim would be successful, 
and the refund might be reversed. But I can see Nationwide did tell him this within three 
weeks of the credit being applied.
 
Ive thought about how Mr S was affected by this. He was quite understandably upset and 
disappointed when he was told the refund was being reversed. But Nationwide has said 
sorry and offered Mr S £100 to compensate him for this. Given the relatively short period in 
which Nationwide rectified this omission, and that Mr S then cleared the balance soon after, Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable amount and is in line with what I would typically 
award in such circumstances.
 
Ill now move on to Section 75. This sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance 
provider, Nationwide is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier, N. Theres no suggestion of a misrepresentation here, nor does the available 
evidence indicate one. So, Ive thought about if theres been a breach of contract.
 
Mr S booked non-refundable flight tickets for him and his family. But, given their uncertainty 
over whether they would be able to travel, Mrs S accepted flight credits and their flight 
reservations were cancelled. Ive taken on board Mr Ss point about N no longer flying to the 
destination they were booked to go to. But theres nothing in the available evidence to show 
that when the flight credit was offered, any guarantee was given that the destination would 
continue to be available or that the flight credit was destination specific. Given the tickets 
were non-refundable, Im not satisfied there was a breach of contract. It follows that Im 
satisfied Nationwide hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by not giving Mr S a refund.
 
As above, Section 75 only applies in certain circumstances. Given that Im satisfied theres 
been no breach of contract and theres no suggestion of a misrepresentation, I dont need to 
make a finding on whether all those circumstances are present here.
 
In summary, Im satisfied Nationwide hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by not giving 
Mr S a refund. Its explored both avenues for him without success. I really do understand 
Mr Ss strength of feeling here and appreciate the situation he found himself in. But, for the 
reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Im not asking 
Nationwide Building Society to do, or pay, more than the £100 its already offered. Its for 
Mr S to decide whether or not he now wants to accept this offer.
 
This final decision ends the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. This 
means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023. 
John Miles
Ombudsman