DRN-3031867
The complaint
Mr P acquired a new vehicle in March 2019, using his National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) credit card. He complains that the vehicle was misrepresented, or not of 
satisfactory quality, at the point of supply. He wants either to receive compensation of 
£2,000, or to reject the vehicle.
What happened
Mr P told us that he raised concerns about his new vehicles fuel consumption with the 
supplying dealership in April 2019, which he said was much higher (litres/100km) than 
figures quoted in its handbook. When the vehicles performance did not improve over the 
next few months, a fuel consumption test was organised by a manufacturer approved main 
dealer, which was undertaken in September 2019. 
This test returned performance figures which were similar to those in the handbook. But 
Mr P thought the test had been carried out in an unrealistic manner in unrealistic conditions. 
So, he complained to representatives of his vehicles manufacturer. He told them the primary 
reason why he acquired his vehicle, was that its stated fuel consumption was far superior the 
figures for similar vehicles made by competitor manufacturers. 
A goodwill gesture was made to Mr P, to refund his vehicles fuel costs associated with the 
test. He declined this offer, and instead organised a second test undertaken by a local 
dealership in January 2020. This test returned figures much higher than those in the 
handbook. 
Mr P referred his complained to NatWest. Under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, it had a 
responsibility to ensure that goods acquired with its credit card were not mis-represented, 
and were of satisfactory quality, at the point of supply. 
NatWest responded to Mr P, saying:
There was no evidence that he had been guaranteed a set fuel consumption, before 
he acquired his vehicle
Many factors (including weather, road conditions more generally and driving style) 
could affect fuel consumption  given these factors, it did not see how the 
manufacturer or supplying dealer could guarantee a specific fuel consumption
It was unable to uphold his complaint
Mr P then referred his complaint to us. Our investigator did not think that it should be upheld. 
Our investigator agreed with NatWest there was no evidence that Mr P had been told the 
handbooks printed fuel consumption figures were guaranteed. This meant she could not say 
that a false statement had been made, which had led Mr P to acquire his vehicle  and so 
misrepresentation of the fuel consumption figures had not occurred. She considered these 
figures to be guidelines.
Our investigator noted the conflicting evidence about fuel consumption: the first test (in 
September 2019) suggested there was nothing wrong, while the second test (in 
January 2020) suggested something was wrong. In these circumstances, she understood 
why NatWest had felt there was insufficient evidence to uphold Mr Ps complaint  and she 
was unable to conclude that it had acted unfairly.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators conclusions. He told us that he had never asked for 
guaranteed fuel consumption. He simply had what he considered to be a reasonable 
expectation: that the vehicle would achieve minimum worst-case printed specifications.
So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
I sympathise with Mr P. But I have come to the same conclusions as our investigator, for 
similar reasons.
There has been recent publicity about a vehicle manufacturer (not the maker of Mr Ps 
vehicle) where performance information in marketing material has been incorrect. So, I 
understand why Mr P could have concerns about the fuel consumption figures in his 
vehicles handbook. But Mr Ps complaint is against NatWest, and not the supplying 
dealership or his vehicles manufacturer. 
NatWest has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding 
to their description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances. But there 
are limits to NatWests responsibilities. In particular, faults must be present or developing at 
the point of supply.  
For a while after the point of supply, there is a period of positive presumption that, if a 
vehicle is faulty, any faults also existed at the point of supply  unless there is evidence that, 
on the balance of probabilities, the vehicle was fault-free then. (Typically, such evidence 
would be the report of a suitably accredited inspector.)
But, after several months, the above period ends and a negative presumption takes over: 
that any identified faults did not exist at the point of supply  unless there is evidence that, 
on the balance of probabilities, identified faults would have been present or developing then. 
Mr P acquired his car in April 2019. The first fuel consumption test (which he strongly 
criticised) took place in September 2019, when the positive presumption above applied. But 
the second test (which he organised) took place in January 2020, by which time the negative 
presumption above applied. 
The first tests results appear to indicate that Mr Ps vehicle was unlikely to have been faulty 
in September 2019  that is, its fuel consumption was unlikely to have been excessive. But I 
note Mr Ps concerns about this test, and I will not take its results into consideration.The second tests results may or may not show that Mr Ps vehicle was faulty in January 
2020:
Mr Ps vehicle could have been faulty  that is, its fuel consumption could have been 
excessive
Or its fuel performance could have been that intended by the manufacturer, and the 
handbook figures were incorrect
But, given the negative presumption referred to earlier, I need information relating to the 
point of supply, for this tests results to relate to NatWests responsibilities. And I have seen 
no evidence of a suitably accredited conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, the 
same test conducted at the point of supply would have returned comparable results to those 
of the second test. 
Also, I would need to see considerable supporting evidence and arguments, to make such a 
conclusion credible  given the number of factors that could have affected the fuel 
performance of Mr Ps vehicle, over the 10 months between the point of supply and the test 
date.
 
For these reasons, I am unable (on the balance of probabilities) to find sufficient evidence to 
support Mr Ps complaint: that his vehicle was misrepresented, or not of satisfactory quality, 
at the point of supply. So, like our investigator, I am unable to conclude that NatWest acted 
unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman