DRN-3343289
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money was 
irresponsible in lending to her. Shes also unhappy with the way it responded to her request 
for a payment freeze.
What happened
In June 2019 118 118 Money provided Mrs M with a loan of £2,000 repayable over 24 
months with a monthly repayment of £117.48. The total amount repayable was £2,819.52. 
She said the purpose of the loan was to buy a car.
In December 2020 118 118 Money rescheduled the loan to give Mrs M a payment freeze of 
two months. After that she had to make ten monthly payments of £130.12. The loan was 
repaid in April 2021.
Mrs M complained that 118 118 Money hadnt properly checked she could afford the original 
loan. She said at the time she applied for the loan, she already had a number of debts, had 
three active credit cards and regularly missed payments, resulting in her having to enter into 
payment plans for two of them. Shes also unhappy that when she told 118 118 Money she 
was having difficulty making repayments, it only offered her a payment freeze, meaning 
shed have to pay additional interest.
118 118 Money looked into her complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had carried out 
proper checks and it thought the loan repayments were sustainable. Mrs M referred her 
complaint to us. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Ms complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs M would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focussed  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs M undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Before granting the loan, 118 118 Money carried out a credit search and verified Mrs Ms 
income online. The credit search showed that Mrs M had 14 active credit accounts, 6 of 
which had been opened in the previous 6 months. One of those accounts was a credit card 
account also with 118 118 Money. Thered been 6 credit searches on her in the past 3 
months and 16 searches in the past 12 months. The total amount she owed was £5,045. 
Shed had one county court judgment which had been satisfied the previous year. There 
were no missed payments or defaults.
118 118 Money said it asked Mrs M a number of questions about her income and 
expenditure. However, in terms of expenditure, I havent seen what information 118 118 
Money had about Mrs Ms usual living expenses (other than credit commitments). By that I 
mean, I cant see what questions were asked, or information gathered, on things like Mrs Ms 
rent, utility bills or monthly travel costs. Or that 118 118 Money looked to check Mrs M would 
be left with sufficient funds after all of her commitments, including this potential loan 
repayment, for any unexpected expenses. So in the absence of this information, I cant see 
how 118 118 Money could have been satisfied Mrs M would be able to repay the loan 
sustainably.
In the light of this I next need to consider whether reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have shown the loan could be repaid sustainably. With this in mind, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. I appreciate that different checks 
show different things, and proportionate checks might not have extended to 118 118 Money 
looking at bank statements. But, in the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed these to get 
an idea of what 118 118 Money would probably have discovered if it had asked Mrs M some 
questions about her expenditure. 
The bank statements for the month before Mrs M took out the loan show that shed taken out 
two loans for £500 and £750 respectively at the end of May 2019. Even with these two loans 
she still ended the month with less in her account than at the start. She didnt have an 
overdraft facility. If she hadnt taken out these loans, there was a risk that some of her 
payments would have failed. This suggests to me that Mrs M was at that time struggling to 
manage her finances and was applying for short-term credit to repay her other credit 
commitments. If 118 118 Money had carried out proportionate checks, I think it is more likely 
than not that it would have uncovered this and then not lent to Mrs M. So Im not persuaded 
that 118 118 Money acted fairly in lending to Mrs M.
Im sorry that Mrs M has found it hard to keep up the monthly repayments on the original 
loan. At my request, 118 118 Money has sent us its records showing what happened when 
Mrs M contacted it requesting a payment freeze. Ive also listened to a recording of a call in 
which Mrs M discussed the payment freeze with 118 118 Money. She explained that her 
earnings had temporarily dropped due to her having to self-isolate during the pandemic. She 
said shed be able to continue with her repayments when she returned to work in November 
2020. 
118 118 Money asked her various questions to check that her change in circumstances was 
only temporary. It also explained that a payment freeze would mean shed have to enter into 
a new loan agreement and pay more interest in the long run. Mrs M said she was happy 
with that. I cant fairly say that 118 118 Money didnt respond positively and sympathetically 
when Mrs M reported payment problems. Since it had no reason to suspect Mrs M was in 
serious financial difficulties, I dont think it treated her unfairly in this respect.
118 118 Money accepted my provisional decision. Mrs Ms representative said they had no 
further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them and 
they now form part of this final decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs M to repay the principal amount that she borrowed 
because she has had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded 118 118 Money 
shouldnt have provided the loans, it should look to remove the interest and fees from the 
principal amount. 
118 118 Money should:
  refund all interest, fees and charges on the loans;
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, fees and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loans from Mrs Ms credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money should give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and require Madison CF UK 
Limited trading as 118 118 Money to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman