DRN-3924487
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that Starling Bank Limited acted unfairly 
when restricting and closing its bank account, and in terminating its Bounce Back Loan 
facility.
Es director, Mr O, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
E banked with Starling and obtained a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 from the bank in July 
2020.
Starling initiated a review of Es account in August 2020. The findings of this review 
ultimately led it to withdraw its services from the company. It defaulted the Bounce Back 
Loan in March 2021 and subsequently closed Es bank account. It applied the 56p closing 
balance to the amount E owed under the Bounce Back Loan agreement, and then issued a 
formal demand for immediate repayment of the remaining £49,999.44 in September 2021.
Mr O doesnt think Starling treated E fairly. Hes unhappy that Starling restricted Es usage of 
its account while carrying out the review, which he says affected the companys trading. And 
he doesnt think its fair for Starling to require E to repay the loan in full, particularly in light of 
the financial difficulties arising due to the coronavirus pandemic. He says he doesnt have 
the funds to do so, and wants Starling to allow E to repay the loan over the original terms of 
the agreement.
Our investigator didnt think Starling had done anything wrong. He said, in summary, that:
Starling had explained that it was fulfilling is legal and statutory responsibilities when 
restricting and reviewing Es account, and he was satisfied that was the case. The 
terms and conditions allowed Starling to take these actions.
Starling was entitled to close Es account immediately in line with the terms and 
conditions, and he didnt think it had done anything wrong in doing so given the 
circumstances here. 
The terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan agreement also allowed Starling 
to terminate it in certain circumstances, which again he thought was reasonable in 
light of the banks review. 
As the loan had been defaulted correctly, Starling was then entitled to demand 
immediate repayment of the outstanding balance. This superseded the original 
repayment terms, which were no longer applicable.
Although he thought it had taken Starling too long to conclude its review process, he 
didnt think this had actually impacted E and so didnt think there wasnt anything for 
the bank to put right.
Mr O didnt accept our investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starling has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, 
and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Es account allowed Starling to suspend its services. Starling 
has explained and evidenced that it did so in order to comply with its legal obligations. From 
the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case. So I dont think Starling did 
anything wrong in restricting Es account while it conducted its review. 
Following the review, Starling decided to close Es account. That was a decision it was 
entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed the bank to close the companys account 
immediately and without giving notice in certain circumstances. In light of the findings of the 
banks review, I think it was reasonable for Starling to do so here.
Theres no set timeframe within which a bank must complete reviews or remove restrictions, 
and the length of time taken will depend on the circumstances of each case. Here, Starling 
initiated its review in August 2020 but only acted upon its decision to withdraw facilities from 
E over a year later. Ive not seen good reason for it to have taken as long as that. However, 
Ive also not seen that this apparent delay adversely affected E. The company was still able 
to make payments in and out of the account for much of the period in question. And if 
Starling had acted sooner, it would simply have offset more of the funds held in the account 
to the loan debt. So I dont think E lost out as a result of things taking longer than they 
shouldve done.
Starlings review also led it to terminate Es Bounce Back Loan facility. The terms and 
conditions of the loan allowed the bank to cancel the facility and demand its immediate 
repayment of the loan in certain circumstances. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the 
bank to do so here, in light of the findings of its review. 
I understand Mr O wants Starling to allow E to repay the loan over the originally agreed 
terms of repayment. But with the loan having defaulted, the balance became immediately 
repayable  and the original payment schedule ceased to apply. I understand from what 
Mr O says that E doesnt have the means by which to repay the full amount owing. So I 
suggest he liaises with Starling as to a way forward. Id expect Starling to give fair 
consideration to any repayment proposals he puts forward.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman