DRN-3636527
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs A are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around May 2016, Mr and Mrs A were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs A decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed in September 2016.
In October 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs As behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs A to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding within the loan term, but the CMC asserted that it 
will actually take 18 years; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,000).
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs A or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs A and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It reiterated that it will take 18 years for 
the system to pay for itself, while the loan term is 15 years.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs A paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs A could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs A and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs A say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement, the solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation, and Mr and 
Mrs As FIT statements and energy bills. Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs As 
testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to 
have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs A, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. One of them has signed it on page 
24.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and 
Mrs As version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The FIT statements show all of the FIT payments which have been made for the period from 
February 2017 to March 2021. I do not know why they started in 2017 when the system was 
installed in September 2016, but no complaint has been made about this, and the gap is too 
small to prevent me from calculating the performance of the system, so I do not think it 
matters.
The electricity bills cover the period from 2011 to December 2016. The CMC says that no 
more recent bills are available. The ones which have been provided are simply not enough 
for me to verify the assertion that the savings on Mr and Mrs As electricity bills were less 
than estimated by P at the point of sale.
FIT payments: estimated and actual
Mr and Mrs A have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs As recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs A could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs A could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £377.64. I have checked their FIT statements and have found that 
the annual FIT income from 2017 onwards was roughly the same as or higher than that. So 
if the system has not met their expectations, it is not because the system has failed to 
generate the estimated FIT payments.
Savings and total income
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs A could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings are £650.90. When taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs A, the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £1,461.74. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres another section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs A entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £112.14. This is slightly incorrect; the loan 
agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £113.99, but both figures when multiplied by 
12 give a lower figure than the total income and savings figure above, £1,461,74. (And the 
difference between these monthly figures  £1.85  is too small to make a difference to my 
conclusions below.)
For each year of the 15 year loan the table shows the expected grand total return from the 
system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan 
repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and 
the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a positive figure for every year of the 
loan, meaning that the system would make enough money to cover the loan payments from 
the first year. (That wouldnt mean from the first month though, because FIT payments are 
paid quarterly.)
I therefore find that they were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered from 
the first year by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
I also accept that Mr and Mrs A were told by P that the system would be self-funding within 
the loan term.
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 30 
years. This too shows that during year 11 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs A could 
expect to receive would reach the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £20,518. 
(I have only shown here the rows for years 1, 10 and 11.)
If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to 
enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation. The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 18 years for the 
system to pay for itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and 
whether this is in line with the contract between P and Mr and Mrs A.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 5,574 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr and Mrs As FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 6,153 kWh a year. This is somewhat more than estimated by P at 
the point of sale (110%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, at least 
in terms of energy generation, if not financially. So if Mr and Mrs A have not seen the 
expected financial returns, this is not because the system is defective, but for some other 
cause.
I have not actually seen enough evidence to verify that the system is not yielding the 
financial returns which were estimated at the point of sale. As I have said already, the FIT 
payments are meeting expectations, and I do not have enough post-installation electricity 
bills to assess the savings which have been made. So I make no finding of fact about the 
savings, or about the total financial benefit derived from the system, or about whether the 
system will actually pay for the loan in 11 years, or 18 years, or at some time in between. But 
for completeness, I have still considered why the savings on Mr and Mrs As energy bills 
might not have been as much as estimated at the point of sale (if that is indeed the case).
So I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs A havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs A could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs A entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, I am not
satisfied that there were any untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs A 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman