DRN-3682241
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim they made under 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, through an 
intermediary, and insured by Great Lakes. The policy started on 1 April 2022 and was due to 
finish on 31 March 2022.
During this policy period, Mr and Mrs L were due to go on a cruise. But this cruise was 
unfortunately cancelled by the cruise company  due to the impact of the Coronavirus 
pandemic. The cruise company provided Mr and Mrs L with options for reimbursement of the 
funds theyd paid. 
But Mr and Mrs L explained the cruise was due to end in a country abroad, rather than in the 
UK. So, they had also paid for flights home. But were now unable to make use of these. 
These flights were non-refundable. So, Mr and Mrs L made a claim under their insurance 
policy for this loss.
Great Lakes considered Mr and Mrs Ls claim but declined it. Great Lakes gave several 
reasons for declining the claim. It said:
Mr and Mrs Ls trip, and therefore their return flights, were cancelled due the 
coronavirus pandemic. It said the policy only covered claims arising from the 
pandemic if a policyholder, close relative, travelling companion on someone due to 
be stayed with, had tested positive for the virus in the 14 days before the trip.
That when Mr and Mrs L booked their trip, they would have been aware of the 
coronavirus pandemic, and the risk this posed to travel.
That there was a term in the policy that excluded cover for travelling against Foreign, 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advice.
Mr and Mrs L should be able to receive a refund for the cruise from the cruise 
provider.
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with this. They highlighted that they werent claiming for the 
cruise costs  just the return flights home, as these werent refundable. Mr and Mrs L also 
said that Great Lakes had considered their claim under the wrong section of the policy. They 
felt it should be considered under the abandonment section, rather than the cancellation 
section. And, they said that when they purchased their insurance policy, it was advertised as 
having Coronavirus cover- and so it wasnt fair to note exclusions in relation to FCDO 
advice, or the virus being a known event.
Great Lakes maintained its position. So, Mr and Mrs L referred their complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
that both the cancellation and abandonment section didnt cover claims arising from 
Coronavirus, unless it was because of a positive test result in the 14 days before the holiday. 
And that there were other exclusions in the policy which highlighted that no other claims due 
to the Coronavirus would be accepted. Our investigator said Mr and Mrs Ls claim did arise 
due to the impact of Coronavirus  but not due to a positive test result. And so, the loss 
wasnt covered. 
Our investigator also noted they didnt consider a refund of premium was due to Mr and Mrs 
L. A claim had been made and declined correctly according to the terms. And when Mr and 
Mrs L took out their policy, they would have known that coronavirus could cause them issues 
with using the policy. The policy had terms that only allowed a refund during 14-day cooling-
off period. And Mr and Mrs L hadnt cancelled the policy during this time. So, they didnt think 
it was reasonable to recommend Great Lakes provide Mr and Mrs L with a refund. 
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They again raised concerns about the information they were given 
when the policy was sold. They felt this mislead them into thinking any claims as a result of 
Coronavirus would be covered. And they considered that other exclusions raised by Great 
Lakes were a distraction. 
Because Mr and Mrs L disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs L  its clear they feel strongly about the matter. But Ive 
explained the reason for my decision below.
Firstly, Mr and Mrs L have raised concerns about how the policy was sold to them. Its 
important to highlight that this complaint is only in respect of Mr and Mrs Ls insurer, and 
whether it declined their claim fairly. Any concerns about the sale of the policy, which was 
taken through an intermediary, need to be considered against it instead. So, I havent 
commented on this as part of my decision.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and unreasonably decline it. So, Ive 
thought about whether Great Lakes, in declining Mr and Mrs Ls claim, acted in line with 
these requirements. 
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ls policy documentation. As is usual with policies of this nature, I 
can see it doesnt cover every eventuality. But Im aware it does provide cover for 
cancellation and abandonment of a trip, in certain situations. Mr and Mrs L feel the loss 
should be considered under the abandonment section. However, that section is for when a 
trip is cut short. In this instance, Mr and Mrs Ls trip didnt start. It was cancelled before it 
began. So, Im satisfied considering the loss under the cancellation section was the right 
thing to do. 
However, both the cancellation and abandonment sections contain the same terms in 
relation to Coronavirus. Both of these sections note that:if you, a close relative or anyone you are planning to travel with or stay with receives, in 
writing, a positive test result for coronavirus within 14 days of your trip commencing, we will 
pay up to the amount shown in your policy schedule for your share of any irrecoverable 
unused travel and accommodation (including excursions) and other pre-paid charges you 
have paid or are contracted to pay.
So, Im aware that if the claim arose for the above, Mr and Mrs L would have cover under 
their policy. But the claim didnt arise for this reason. So, Mr and Mrs L arent covered by 
this.
The general exclusion section of the policy highlights the following:
This policy does not cover the following
Apart from Coronavirus (COVID-19) cover under the Cancellation and Abandonment 
sections and the Emergency medical and associated expenses section, this policy does not 
cover claims arising directly, or indirectly, from any coronavirus disease, including but not 
limited to severe acute respiratory syndrome, coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and COVID-19, 
or any related or mutated form of the virus. This includes the fear or threat of catching 
coronavirus, and the advice, or action, of any government or medical practitioner not to 
travel or preventing travel.
Mr and Mrs Ls trip was cancelled because of issues related to Coronavirus. Ive seen the 
cancellation communication from the cruise company which evidences this. The cruise 
company explained to Mr and Mrs L that it was pleased to see the world opening up, 
following measures to manage Coronavirus. But that based on the latest guidance it had 
from countries it visits as part of its cruises, it was highly unlikely the cruise company would 
be able to deliver the experience booked. And so, the trip was being cancelled.
As the above shows the cruise was cancelled. And Mr and Mrs L had to cancel their flight 
home because of this. So, Im satisfied that the above exclusion is relevant. Mr and Mrs Ls 
claim arose from Coronavirus disease  and cover is provided for that under the cancellation 
and abandonment sections, unless the cancellation is because of a positive test resolved 
from the parties detailed above. Given this, Im satisfied Great Lakes acted fairly in declining 
Mr and Mrs Ls claim  it did so in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Ive thought about whether Great Lakes, as the insurer, made the terms in relation to 
Coronavirus clear. And Im satisfied it did. Ive seen the policy documents sent to 
Mr and Mrs L. The cover letter sent to Mr and Mrs L highlighted the cover in relation to 
Coronavirus. And referred Mr and Mrs L to the full terms and conditions. And the Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) refers to the exclusion in relation to Coronavirus claims 
Ive mentioned above. These terms are also within the policy booklet. So, Im satisfied as 
Great Lakes made the policy terms clear. 
Mr and Mrs L have said they feel a premium refund should be due to them. They feel this 
way because theyve said the policy was mis-sold to them by the intermediary. As this 
complaint isnt about the sale of the policy, that wont be considered here. But, for 
completeness, Ive considered whether Great Lakes has any obligation to provide a refund in 
the circumstances.
Ive thought carefully about this. And Im satisfied Great Lakes dont need to provide any 
form of refund. The relevant rules say a policyholder isnt entitled to any refund for the policy, 
after the 14-day cooling-off period. And Mr and Mrs Ls policy also explains that no refund is 
due after the 14-day cooling off period. Im aware that Mr and Mrs Ls trip was cancelled due to Covid-19. But this didnt make it 
impossible for Mr and Mrs Ls contract with Great Lakes to be performed. Cover started on 
1 April 2021. And Mr and Mrs L werent insured for their dates of travel. 
The price set by Great Lakes also covered and Mr and Mrs L for cancellation cover from the 
policy start date. So, the premium Mr and Mrs L paid covered the risk of them having to 
cancel their holiday due to any of a number of listed events insured under the policy.
I think its also important to take into account that Covid-19 was already a known event when 
the policy was purchased. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all 
but essential travel on 17 March 2020 as a response to Covid-19. Mr and Mrs L purchased 
their policy on 23 March 2020, and so I think they would have been aware that their trip may 
be cancelled due to Covid-19 and that they wouldnt have had full use of the policy.
I cant fairly say that Covid-19 and the risk of needing to cancel their trip as a result of Covid-
19 was unexpected or unforeseeable at this point. I therefore think Mr and Mrs L took out the 
policy with the knowledge they may not have full use of it in the event their trip had to be 
cancelled due to Covid-19. Therefore, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Great 
Lakes to step outside of industry guidelines or the terms and conditions of the policy. So, Im 
not requiring it to provide any refund. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman