DRN-3046507
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd handled his claim on his roadside
assistance insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr Ps car broke down, so he called Bastion to claim on his policy. Bastion accepted the
claim and sent out a recovery vehicle to assist Mr P. When the recovery arrived, Mr P said
he was told it wasnt possible to recover him to a local garage because it was too late. Mr P
therefore, asked to be recovered to his home address.
Mr P said the recovery driver said he couldnt take him and his passenger with his car,
because of Covid-19. He was also charged £120 to recover his car home. As Mr P and his
passenger couldnt go with the recovery driver and car, they walked to the local train station
and got a train close to his home, they then walked several miles home. As Mr P wasnt 
happy with this he complained to Bastion.
Bastion didnt think it had done anything wrong as Mr P was only entitled to Local Recovery
under his policy. Mr P didnt agree and referred his complaint here. He said his policy should
have recovered his car, him and his passenger to his home address. As it hadnt done this
hed had to pay for recovery, pay for the train home for him and his passenger and walk 11
miles in the dark. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 31 August 2021 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy say:
If Your Vehicle suffers a Breakdown You will be presented with two initial options which our
Breakdown Agents may assist You with. These are the choice of deployment of a recovery
operator vehicle for a Roadside Assistance in order to attempt temporary repairs to Your
Vehicle or the deployment of a recovery operator in order to affect Local Recovery (between
8am and 4pm) to a Suitable Garage within 25 miles roundtrip of the original Breakdown
location, or National Recovery (between 4pm and 8am) to your residential address. If you
select Roadside Assistance and it is the opinion of Our Breakdown recovery operator that
they are unable to Repair the Vehicle at the roadside, We can at Your request, and subject
to an additional payment arrange, for Recovery of Your Vehicle.
The terms go onto define a National recovery as:
Cover applies within the territorial limits, more than one mile from Your home address. If
Local Recovery is not possible at the time of the Breakdown (i.e. it is out of hours and
between 4pm and 8am), We may arrange for You, Your Vehicle and up to 4 passengers to
be transported to Your home or original destination within the territorial limits.
Ive reviewed these terms to decide whether Bastion has done what it is supposed to under
the policy, and in a fair and reasonable way. Bastions internal notes show the call time as
15:43, so Im satisfied Mr Ps breakdown occurred before 4pm. Under the terms and
conditions, he would only be entitled to a Local Recovery. However, I also can see that
Bastions recovery driver didnt arrive until 18:02. Bastion also said it aims to get its
recovery vehicles to a breakdown within 60-90 minutes. If Bastion had attended Mr P within
90 minutes, then I think its likely a Local Recovery would have been possible. However, as
Bastion didnt arrive with Mr P until after 6pm it meant a Local Recovery was unlikely. I
appreciate Bastion has said garages in the area were open until 6:30pm, but I havent seen
anything to show it was possible to recover Mr Ps car to a local garage by that time. So,
because Bastion wasnt able to do carry out a Local Recovery, I think it would be fair and
reasonable to have treated Mr Ps breakdown as occurring after 4pm and offered him a
National Recovery.
If Bastion had provided Mr P with a National Recovery, the terms say it will transport his car
and passenger to his home. I understand Bastion said Mr P and his passenger couldnt ride
with the recovery driver due to the risks of Covid, and I wouldnt expect Bastion to do
anything to put its staff in danger. However, I do think it could have offered a reasonable
alternative. And as Bastion didnt offer a reasonable alternative or transport Mr Ps car home,
hes incurred additional costs he shouldnt have had and said he had to walk 11 miles in the
dark. To put things right Bastion should pay Mr P the £120 he paid to have his car
recovered, it should also pay him the £35.40 he paid for the train tickets. In addition to this
Bastion should pay him a further £250 for the distress and inconvenience of having to walk
11 miles in the dark.
Mr P responded and accepted my provisional decision. Bastion replied and said it didnt 
accept it. It said the initial call was received at 15:10 and therefore wasnt after 16:00. It also 
said it could get a local contractor out to Mr P in as little as 10 minutes and that it only took 
longer because Mr P requested a National Recovery. Because of this Bastion said it could 
have recovered Mr P to a local garage before 18:30. Bastion also provided a screen shot of 
an internet search of garages, close to where Mr P broke down, to evidence it could have 
arranged a local recovery in time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Bastions response and its not persuaded me to change my decision. I say 
this because Bastion has provided a screen shot which shows the call came in at 15:10, next 
to this it has an option which allows you to select the date and time. Previously Bastion had 
provided a different screen shot which couldnt be edited which showed the call came in at 
15:43. Also the call note on Bastions system shows the call came in at 03:43. As the 
previous screen shot cant be edited and is supported by the time on the call note, Im 
persuaded the call most likely came in at 15:43. 
Ive also considered the internet search of garages near to where Mr P broke down. While it 
shows a list of garages, it doesnt evidence that those garages had availability when Mr P 
needed recovery, or what the recovery time was on that day. So, Im not persuaded Bastion 
could have attended Mr P within 10 minutes. 
Bastion also said it only sent a National Recovery as Mr P requested it and thats why the 
recovery took longer. Ive reviewed the call notes Bastions provided and they dont say Mr P 
was given the option of Local or National Recovery. So, Im not persuaded Mr P was given 
the option when he called and chose to wait almost two hours and pay £120 rather than 
being recovered within 10 minutes for free and getting a train home in daylight. 
For these reasons Im not persuaded to depart from my findings above and in my provisional decision.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to pay Mr P:
£35.40 for the train tickets
£120 he paid to recover his car
£250 for distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman