DRN-4048729
The complaint
Miss S complains about Covea Insurance plc and the way they have handled the claim she 
made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S held a home insurance policy, underwritten by Covea. Unfortunately, during the 
process of clearing out her home, Miss S mis-placed a jewellery box containing several 
pieces of jewellery, some with significant sentimental and financial value. So, Miss S 
contacted Covea to make a claim for this loss on her policy.
Covea accepted the claim, and they instructed an independent jeweller, who Ill refer to as 
L to value the lost items as well as arranging for replacements to be provided. L validated 
Miss S claim for over £10,000 and Covea authorised for replacements to be arranged.
But shortly after the claim being authorised, Covea identified they had made a mistake when 
accepting Miss S claim under the contents section of her policy. Due to the circumstances of 
the loss, they thought Miss S claim instead fell under the additional Personal Belongings 
cover, which held a limit of £2,000. By this time, L had already provided Miss S with several 
replacement items and so, Covea asked that Miss S return these items. And instead, Covea 
explained they would pay Miss S a cash settlement of £2,000. Miss S was unhappy with this, 
so she raised a complaint.
Miss S didnt think it was fair for Covea to ask her to return the items, when it was Coveas 
mistake that had resulted in these being sent to her. She explained the emotional impact 
losing the original items had caused her, and how this situation had made the situation 
worse. So, Miss S wanted Covea to allow her to keep the replacement items shed already 
received.
Covea responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They accepted they had made a 
mistake when initially agreeing to replace the lost jewellery, up to the valuation provided by 
L. And they offered Miss S £150 to recognise the upset this caused. But they maintained 
Miss S was unable to claim on the contents section of the policy as the items were lost within 
her home and so, the situation didnt fall under an insured peril. And so, they explained Miss 
S claim could only be accepted under the Personal Belongings cover, which held a policy 
limit of £2,000. Because of this, they thought their offer to pay this amount as a cash 
settlement was a fair one. Miss S remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They agreed that Covea had 
made a mistake when initially accepting the claim under the contents section of the policy. 
But they didnt think this meant Miss S should be entitled to keep the replacements shed 
already received, as these were worth more than the limit on her Personal Belongings cover 
that the claim shouldve been accepted on. So, they thought Coveas request for Miss S to 
return the items so they could instead issue a cash settlement was reasonable. And they 
thought the £150 Covea had offered Miss S to recognise their mistake was a fair one. 
Because of this, they didnt think Covea needed to do anything more.
Miss S didnt agree. She maintained her view that it was unfair for her to be asked to return 
the jewellery, when it was Coveas mistake that led to her being provided with the items in 
the first place. She questioned whether the earrings she received could be used again as 
they had been worn and she thought Covea should be punished for the mistake they had 
made. Our investigator considered these comments, but their view remained the same. Miss 
S continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss S. I recognise the lost 
jewellery held significant sentimental and financial value to her and I dont doubt it wouldve 
been upsetting for her when she realised the jewellery couldnt be found. And I accept this 
wouldve been made worse for Miss S when she received the replacement items she taken 
time and effort to select, only to be told a short time later that itd need to be returned. I 
appreciate Covea were the insurers responsible for ensuring the claim was handled 
correctly, and it isnt in dispute that they made a mistake here. So, I do understand why Miss 
S feels shes been unfairly treated, and shes being made to return the jewellery when it was 
Coveas mistake that led to it being provided to her in the first place.
But crucially, it is not my role, nor the role of our service, to punish a business such as 
Covea for a mistake they make. Instead, it is our role to consider the individual impact of the 
situation and consider what we think should be done to fairly compensate a customer such 
as Miss S.
And when we consider what action a business should take, if any, in order to ensure we are 
fair to both parties we must ensure any direction we make doesnt place either party in a 
position of betterment. Instead, we would look to ensure a customer is placed back in the 
position they wouldve been in, had the business acted fairly in the first instance.
In this situation, Covea have already accepted they made a mistake when handling the 
claim. And theyve explained Miss S claim shouldve been handled in line with the Personal 
Belongings cover, rather than the contents part of the policy. While I note this is accepted by 
Covea, I note Miss S had questioned the clearness of the policy and so, Ive looked through 
the policy documents at length.
I can see in the contents section of the policy it explains that Covea will cover Miss S for any 
loss or damage to contents which you or your family own or are legally responsible for 
whilst in your home caused by before going on to provide an extensive list of causes for the 
loss. But crucially, none of these causes, also known as insured perils, cover the 
misplacement of items by Miss S within the home. Specifically, the section what we cant 
cover you for explains clearly that Covea wont cover Miss S for loss or damage caused by 
you, your family, lodgers, guests, tenants or employees.
So, as Miss S has accepted the jewellery was likely lost whilst within her home when she 
was clearing it out, I dont think her claim fell under an insured peril within the contents 
section of the policy she held. And I dont think she was covered for any loss caused by her, 
or anyone helping her with the clearing out of her home. Because of this, I dont think I can say Covea have acted unfairly when reversing their initial decision and explaining the claim 
couldnt be covered under this aspect of her policy as I think the policy terms made this 
reasonably clear.
I can see in Section C, which details the optional Personal Belongings cover, it explains 
Covea can cover Miss S for theft, accidental loss of or accidental damage to unspecified 
personal belongings. This means personal belongings you havent told us about.
I think from the description of Miss S circumstances, accidental loss best fits the situation 
that led to the loss of the jewellery. So, I think Covea have acted fairly when deciding the 
claim should be handled under this cover instead. And I can see in the details of Miss S 
policy that she did specify one item, a bike. But I cant see that she specified any of the 
jewellery that was lost. So, I think Covea were fair to deem the jewellery as unspecified 
personal belongings.
I can also see on the policy details that the Policy Belongings cover has a policy limit of 
£2,000, with an excess of £100. So, as I think Covea were fair to deem this cover as the one 
most suitable for Miss S situation, I think it follows that Covea were fair to decide that the 
claim should be settled in line with the policy limits.
Unfortunately, in this situation, its meant that Miss S has been asked to return the 
replacement jewellery sent to her before Covea realised their mistake. But I dont think I can 
say this is an unfair request, as Covea have explained upon receipt of this jewellery, they will 
pay Miss S a cash settlement of £2,000. And I think this places Miss S back in the position 
she wouldve been in, had Covea handled the claim correctly in the first instance. 
But I do appreciate Miss S will have been caused both upset and inconvenience due to 
Coveas mistake, and the fact she will need to send back the jewellery she chose as 
replacements. Covea offered Miss S £150 to recognise this impact. And I think this offer is a 
fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and what I wouldve directed had it not 
already been made. I think it fairly takes into account the upset Miss S wouldve felt when 
realising she had to return the jewellery. And how this made the loss of her original jewellery 
worse. But I think it also considers the fact Covea identified their mistake relatively shortly 
after Miss S had received the replacement jewellery and the fact Covea have explained a 
cash settlement will be provided once its been returned.
From the system notes Ive seen, I think its most likely the £150 has already been paid to 
Miss S and so, I dont think Covea need to do anything more on this occasion. But if the 
£150 hasnt been paid, Id expect Covea to ensure payment is made once they hold the 
relevant payment details needed from Miss S.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss S was hoping for. And I do recognise Miss S 
concerns about returning the jewellery and the reasonableness of this demand, considering 
its already been worn. But Ive seen L confirm they would take all of the jewellery, including 
the earrings, back whether they have been worn or not. And as the jewellery supplied was 
worth more than the policy limit applicable to Miss S claim, I think Covea are fair to continue 
to request the return of these items.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss S complaint about Covea Insurance plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman