DRN-2215231
The complaint
Mr H says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly. He also says MYJAR didnt treat him 
positively and sympathetically when he was in financial difficulty.
 
What happened
Mr H took out one £200 instalment loan with MYJAR in April 2018. Our adjudicator did not 
think this loan had been agreed irresponsibly. As Mr H didnt accept this, his complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Before lending to Mr H, MYJAR asked him to provide some information about his income 
and expenditure. The information Mr H provided suggested his income was £1,900 per 
month and his expenditure for rent, credit expenses and other undefined expenses came to 
£400 per month. This expenditure information is clearly not comprehensive but allowing 
even for significant safeguards and additional expenditure, it did suggest Mr H could 
probably afford the monthly repayments for his loan, which were less than £100. MYJAR 
also carried out a credit check, which didnt raise any issues of real concern. So overall, I 
dont think MYJAR lent to Mr H irresponsibly. 
Ive noted that Mr H says MYJAR didnt treat him fairly when was in financial difficulty. But he 
hasnt said what it is he thinks MYJAR did wrong. Ive looked through the correspondence 
records MYJAR has provided and I cant see that it did anything substantially wrong after it 
knew about Mr Hs financial problems. I therefore dont uphold this aspect of Mr Hs 
complaint either.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against MYJAR Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman