DRN-4134054
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has unfairly refused a claim they 
made for damage to their property after a lightning strike.
What happened
The policy held by Mrs B and Mr B appears to have been sold and administered by a third 
party that Ill call H. However, AXA underwrites the policy and has responsibility for meeting 
claims, so it has taken this complaint on board. Where I refer to AXA or H in this decision 
that also includes any other parties that have been involved in the claim.
Ill not go into detail about what happened, as all parties know the background. In summary, 
it seems that lightning caused an electrical surge in Mrs B and Mr Bs home and that 
resulted in damage to several items, including two large TVs.
Mrs B and Mr B made a claim on their home insurance, but AXA said that neither of the TVs 
were covered  it said one had screen damage not related to a power surge and the other 
had the wrong fuse which may have allowed excess power into the TV. It said other items 
were damaged by the power surge but the replacement cost fell within the excess limit on 
the policy, so it need not pay for these.
Mrs B and Mr B complained, saying the first TV wasnt damaged when it left them and 
provided a photo showing no damage taken a few days before it was collected by AXAs 
nominated courier. They also pointed out that although the other TV turned on, it would no 
longer connect to a media streamer which had been replaced following the power surge. 
H, which was dealing with the claim on behalf of AXA didnt formally respond to the 
complaint, so we were asked to review the situation.
Our investigator thought AXA had treated Mrs B and Mr B unfairly. She didnt think AXA had 
done enough to show the damage to the first TV was pre-existing and not caused by the 
courier  and that Mr Bs photo of an undamaged TV was more persuasive. And she was 
also of the mind that the repairer hadnt considered that the second TV might have been 
damaged by the power surge via the media streamer. She thought AXA should review the 
claim again subject to any remaining terms and conditions, and if it chose to settle the claim 
by cash add interest at 8% per annum from the date the claim was declined (24 June 2022) 
to the date of settlement. She also thought that AXA should pay £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused.
AXA agreed with this view in March 2023, but since then no contact has been made with Mrs 
B and Mr B by H and they say they are out of pocket because theyve had to replace both 
TVs. 
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the information our investigator had when she was issuing her view on this 
complaint, and I agree with what she said.
First I should note that AXAs contractor agreed that some of the items in the claim were 
damaged by a power surge  which supports the validity of the claim overall.
Turning to the two TVs which are the main issue here, Im persuaded by the photo Mrs B 
and Mr B sent in that one of their TVs didnt have physical damage (that is a cracked screen) 
before it was collected by AXAs damage assessment and repair contractor/courier. Im 
satisfied that refusing the claim based on this was unfair.
Ive also noted that the repairer seems only to have checked for direct evidence of damage 
caused by the power surge in the TVs themselves. In particular that seemed to be limited to 
whether the second TV would switch on and operate. That doesnt cover the scenario Mrs B 
and Mr B described  which is that the media streaming device contributed to the damage 
and even though the device(s) have been replaced the TVs no longer connect. As that 
doesnt seem to have been considered, Im persuaded it wasnt fair to refuse the claim for 
the reasons H gave..
Mrs B and Mr B have replaced the two TVs from their own funds. They say they spent about 
£3,000 and chose TVs with a slightly lower specification than the originals. So theyve 
potentially been out of pocket because of this.
Mrs B and Mr B also complain about how the claim has been handled by H on AXAs behalf. 
That includes delays and not responding to them, nor providing a proper written response to 
their complaint. I think the £250 recommended by the investigator is a fair way to make up 
for this.
Putting things right
To put things right AXA should review the entire claim taking into account any remaining 
terms and conditions  such as how the excess amount might affect any settlement.
If the claim is met and paid in cash, then to any settlement AXA should add simple interest at 
8% per annum from the date the claim was declined (24 June 2022) to the date of payment.
Whether the claim is met or not AXA must pay £250 compensation for the way Mrs B and Mr 
B have been treated.
I dont know why AXA hasnt acted upon the view our investigator sent some time ago, given 
that it agreed with it. It may have expected H to put things right. But the meeting of claims 
ultimately rests with AXA as the underwriter, so it should ensure this claim is reviewed and 
settled promptly if thats appropriate. By promptly I mean any payment due should be paid 
within 28 days of Mrs B and Mr B accepting this decision.
My final decision
My decision is that Im upholding this complaint and I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to take 
the actions detailed above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman