DRN-3122769
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) unfairly declined a claim for 
theft under the late Mr Bs motor insurance policy.
Mr D is acting as the representative for this complaint made by the estate of Mr B throughout 
the rest of my decision, I will refer to Mr D as he has been the representative from the outset.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are not disputed by Mr D or Chubb.
Mr D arranged for repairs of Mr Bs car in early 2016 and restoration works began. The 
restoration of the vehicle took some time and Mr D kept in regular contact with the garage as 
work progressed.
In early 2018 the garage arranged for the car to be tested, further work was required so the 
garage took the car to a second garage for this to be carried out.
In June 2018 Mr B passed away, but Mr D continued to contact the first garage for updates. 
In October 2018 the garage confirmed work was continuing at the second garage, and that 
they were nearing completion.
Mr D lost contact with the garage but managed to get through to an ex-employee who 
advised he had retrieved the car from the second garage and sold it. Mr D reported the theft 
to the police and Chubb.
Chubb declined the theft claim. It said the policy did not provide cover for theft by deception. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said Mr B 
had taken care when arranging the repairs of the car and while there was an exclusion that 
stated theft by deception wasnt covered, Mr B hadnt been directly deceived and the term 
had not been applied fairly.
Our Investigator therefore said Chubb should consider the claim under the remaining terms 
of the policy.
Chubb disagreed. It said the term in the policy wasnt ambiguous and was therefore not 
open to interpretation. The car was stolen by deception and therefore the claim was not 
covered. In addition to this Chubb said that Mr D and the repairing garages were agents of 
Mr B and therefore were an extension of him. Therefore, the decision to decline the claim 
was correct. It also said Mr D should make a claim directly to the garages involved as they 
should carry insurance.
As Chubb didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy is clear that theft by deception is not covered. It states:
Deception 
We do not cover any loss or damages to a Vehicle or a Covered Vehicle caused by 
deception.
There is often a term in motor insurance policies that excludes claims for theft by deception. 
Even though the term is clear, I think the intention of this term is to exclude claims when the 
policy holder has been directly deceived. 
Our approach in cases like this is to draw a distinction between those circumstances in
which the consumer has voluntarily handed over possession of the vehicle to the thief and
those where the consumer intended to retain control over the vehicle. 
As Ive said above, the circumstances of this claim are not disputed by either side. I can see 
that repairs were arranged by Mr D upon Mr Bs request. Mr D arranged repairs to be carried 
out to Mr Bs car. A second garage was also employed to carry out further works. I have not 
seen any evidence to suggest that either Mr D or the repairing garages that carried out work 
to Mr Bs car were directly involved in arranging the theft, or set out to deceive Mr B. 
From the information available it appears that an ex-employee of the first garage was 
responsible for the theft of Mr Bs car, and that this person was able to gain possession of 
the car under the guise of an existing employee of the first garage.
I appreciate what Chubb has said about the garages being an agent of Mr B and therefore 
he has been deceived himself. I dont think this is a fair way to look at this case I dont think 
Mr B was deceived himself. So, I dont think the literal application of the deception term is 
fair in these circumstances, or that it should be relied on to decline this claim.
Putting things right
As I dont think Chubb acted fairly when it declined this claim it should now consider the 
claim under the remaining terms of Mr Bs insurance policy. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Chubb European Group SE to put things right by doing 
what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X, X and Mrs B 
and the estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman