DRN-3599959
The complaint
Mr C complains about the decision by Unum Ltd to terminate his income protection claim.
Mr C is represented in this complaint, but for ease, Ill refer to all submissions as if they were 
his own. 
What happened
Mr C is covered under his employers group income protection policy. The aim of this is to 
pay benefit in the event he cant work in his own occupation.
Mr C stopped work due to symptoms he was experiencing, and was later diagnosed with 
multiple sclerosis (MS). He submitted a claim to Unum, and this was accepted in 2012. 
Mr C was also later diagnosed with Lyme disease, as well as other conditions.
In 2013, whilst reviewing Mr Cs claim, Unum wanted him to undergo psychometric testing. 
Mr C didnt agree to do so. Unum terminated the claim in January 2016 because of this.
Mr C appealed against Unums decision. Unum arranged for a neuropsychology assessment 
to take place in January 2018. It also arranged for an independent medical examination 
(IME) to take place. Following this, Unum remained of the view that Mr C no longer met the 
policy definition of incapacity and so refused to reinstate the claim. However, it did make 
Mr C a final settlement offer of £100,000. 
Mr C refused Unums offer, and brought a complaint to this service about Unums claims 
decision. He was also unhappy about the way Unum had handled his claim. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought it hadnt been fair for 
Unum to terminate the claim because Mr C had refused to undergo psychometric testing. 
She didnt think the results of the testing would have provided Unum with sufficient evidence 
to make a decision on whether Mr C continued to meet the policy definition of incapacity. 
The investigator also thought the later IME report wasnt enough to say that Mr C no longer 
met the policy definition of incapacity. So she recommended that Unum reinstate the claim, 
and pay backdated benefit. She also recommended that Unum pay Mr C £1,000 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its claims decision had caused him. 
Finally, our investigator concluded that Unum didnt need to pay Mr Cs professional adviser 
costs.
Unum said it intended to make an offer to Mr C, via his employer. However, Mr C asked for 
the matter to be referred to an ombudsman, as he disagreed with our investigators 
conclusions in respect of professional costs, and also wanted an ombudsman to consider 
some other matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has raised a significant number of points in relation to his dispute with Unum. I dont 
intend to address every point, and have instead considered the main issues. This reflects the 
informal nature of this service. Though I would like to reassure both parties that I considered 
all the evidence before making my decision. 
Claims decision
The policy pays benefit in the event of incapacity. This means:
the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury, to perform the material and 
substantial duties of his insured occupation
The policy says a member may be required to undergo a medical examination by such 
medical practitioners or consultants at such times and places as Unum or the practitioners or 
consultants may require. If a member fails to attend an examination, the claim may be 
declined for that member. 
Unum terminated the claim in January 2016 because Mr C had refused to attend 
psychometric testing. Without this testing, Unum didnt think there was sufficient evidence to 
support that Mr C remained incapacitated. It concluded Mr C was in breach of the above 
clause. 
Mr Cs treating doctors thought the psychometric testing proposed by Unum was not 
appropriate, and may negatively impact his health. In 2015, Unums company medical officer 
(CMO) said he didnt see any contraindication on a medical basis to cognitive testing, but 
recognised that Mr Cs variable fatigue could be a potential issue.
I think it was unreasonable for Unum to terminate the claim for technical reasons in January 
2016. Mr C was acting on medical advice when he told Unum he wasnt willing to participate 
in the psychometric testing. Also, due to Mr Cs variable fatigue (as identified by Unums 
CMO as a potential issue), it seems unlikely that the results of the testing would have given 
Unum conclusive evidence of Mr Cs ability to work. 
Following the termination of his claim Mr C continued to report debilitating symptoms, as 
confirmed by his GP and treating specialist outside the UK (Dr N). In March 2016, Dr N 
confirmed he had been treating Mr C since 2013. He said that Mr C was suffering from 
extreme fatigue and experienced regular pain, as well as numbness and tingling, and visual 
problems. 
In June 2017, Dr N provided an update on Mr Cs condition. He said that since his previous 
report in 2016, Mr Cs health had deteriorated, and he had had a severe MS relapse which 
had started in August 2016. 
Unum later arranged for an IME to take place in March 2018 with Dr G (a consultant 
neurologist). Dr G said that Mr Cs main complaint was severe fatigue, followed by cognitive 
dysfunction. Though Mr C confirmed he also had visual disturbances, pain, tingling, buzzing 
and numbness in his body (amongst other symptoms).
Dr G commented on the neuropsychology assessment that had been carried out in January 
2018. Mr C was found to have difficulty with his memory for non-verbal information, and 
completing tasks took a little longer than would be expected. He was also found to have 
difficulty with tests assessing complex higher-level thinking skills. Dr G said that if Mr C only had a diagnosis of MS, then he was doing very well. However, 
added to this was Mr Cs other conditions. Based on the limited evidence, Dr G thought Mr C 
would be functioning at a higher level that he said, but also accepted it was difficult to 
undermine what an individual says unless there is objective evidence to show otherwise. 
Dr G said that Mr C had become profoundly impaired by virtue of his illness that started in 
2011 and then the range of other diagnoses that have followed. 
Whilst Dr G thought there were significant psychological components to how Mr C 
presented, he concluded that it was difficult to see how Mr C could possibly undertake his 
role. 
In February 2019, Dr N also provided his opinion on the matter and said that Mr C could not 
undertake his role. 
I disagree with Unums conclusions that the evidence supported that Mr C could return to 
work. I think its apparent that Mr C remained incapacitated due to his various conditions. His 
role involves complex work, and the neuropsychology assessment found that he had 
difficulty with tests assessing complex higher-level thinking skills. Whilst I appreciate Dr G 
thought Mr C had become invested in his chronic ill health (and was of the view that this 
was, to some extent, self-perpetuating), its still the case that he thought Mr C could not carry 
out his role. As our investigator has said, there was no suggestion by Dr G that Mr Cs 
reporting of his symptoms were untrue.
I therefore find that Unum should reinstate the claim, and pay any backdated benefit due to 
Mr C in line with the policy terms. 
After our investigator issued her findings, we became aware that Mr Cs employer had 
continued to pay him an income after Unum terminated his claim. Mr C says this figure is 
none of Unums concern as he thinks it would not be classed as deductible income, and has 
asked me to make a ruling that Unum is not entitled to deduct these payments from the 
settlement figure. 
If an insured continues to receive payments from their employer, these would usually be 
deducted from benefit under an income protection policy. This is so that the insured does not 
receive more than the insured benefit. As Ive said above, I would expect Unum to pay 
benefit in line with the policy terms (though I cannot require it to pay more than our award 
limit). As Unum hasnt made a payment yet, nor calculated any deduction it may wish to 
make, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a finding on this here. 
If Mr C is unhappy with the settlement received from Unum once this has been paid, he 
should raise his concerns with Unum in the first instance. 
Costs
Mr C says he had to rely on legal and accountancy services, and has spent over £12,000 on 
legal advice. His representative (who is a family member) also says he will be providing an 
invoice of £892,500 (plus VAT) for the hours he has spent assisting Mr C with his complaint. 
Though the representative also says that he would then gift this payment after tax to Mr C. 
I am able to make an award to cover costs reasonably incurred by a consumer in respect of 
their complaint. The guidance on this rule is set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook under DISP 3.7.10 and also states: 
In most cases complainants should not need to have professional advisers to bring 
complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service, so awards of costs are unlikely to be common.
We apply the same approach when considering any costs involved with appointing 
professional advisers to make a complaint to a financial business. Whilst I recognise my 
decision will disappoint Mr C, I dont consider it was necessary for him to use professional 
advisers to bring his complaint to Unum, or this service. I dont agree with his representative 
that to bring a complaint to this service, Mr C needed to understand how this service 
considers medical evidence, surveillance, or the percentage of complaints upheld against 
Unum. 
I recognise that Mr Cs representative has provided extensive submissions on his behalf, and 
has likely spent a great deal of time on the complaint. Though as our investigator has pointed 
out, we cant make an award to Mr Cs representative, only Mr C. This service does not 
generally compensate complainants for their time spent on making a complaint. I therefore 
dont require Unum to make any payment for this.
Mr Cs representative says that because of his occupation, his fees would be considred 
professional fees. Ive already concluded that Mr C did not need to use professional advisers 
in making his compaint. Though even if I had found otherwise, Mr C did not engage his 
representatives services on a professional basis and has not incurred any costs. 
Handling of the claim   
Mr Cs treating doctors have explained that Unums decision to terminate the claim caused 
Mr C considerable stress, which is a known trigger for MS. It was thought this contributed to 
a worsening of Mr Cs symptoms and may have caused his relapse in 2016. 
I agree with our investigator that a compensation payment of £1,000 would be appropriate 
here. This reflects that Mr C was caused significant and unnecessary worry and upset by 
Unums claims decision, which also may have impacted his health.
Mr C is also unhappy with Unums handling of the claim, particularly with regards to the 
length of time the matter has been ongoing since the claim was initially terminated.
After Unum terminated the claim in January 2016, Mr Cs appeal was not submitted until 
March 2017. After this, Unum decided to arrange an IME, which I think was appropriate. 
However, before doing so, it decided to obtain up-to-date medical records for Mr C. That was 
reasonable given the length of time that had passed since the claim had been terminated. 
There was a delay in arranging the IME appointment, though I see this was because Mr C 
wanted to have the IME in his home. When the specialist attended Mr Cs home for the 
appointment in January 2018, Mr C wanted to record the appointment and the specialist 
decided not to go ahead. It was then rearranged for March 2018. I dont find that Unum was 
responsible for the delays.
Mr C has raised other issues with Unums handling of the claim, and whilst it seems there 
were some minor errors made by Unum, I dont find that such errors were made as to 
warrant further action or compensation. 
Although Mr C wants this service to refer Unums handling of the claim to the FCA, I do not 
have sufficient concerns about Unums handling of the claim that would lead me to do so. I 
therefore will not be referring this matter to the FCA. Though if Mr C considers the FCA 
should be notified, he can contact it directly. 
Compensation limitWhere I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold this complaint. I require Unum Ltd to do the following:
- Reinstate the claim from the date it was terminated, and pay any backdated benefit 
due to the policyholder in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. 
- Interest should be added to the above at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date each payment was due to the date of settlement.
- If the backdated benefit being paid in a lump sum means that Mr C is taxed at a 
higher rate than he would have been if the claim hadnt been terminated and the 
payments made each month, then Unum should put Mr C in the position he would 
have been if the benefit payments were paid when they ought to have been. In other 
words, Unum should compensate Mr C directly for any additional tax that needs to be 
paid. 
- pay Mr C £1,000 compensation. As this does not form part of the contract of 
insurance, it should be paid directly to Mr C.
With the exception of the interest payment, Unum is only required to pay up to the maximum 
of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the above payments (excluding the interest) exceed £160,000, I 
recommend Unum Ltd pays the balance plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Unum doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision and go to court for the 
balance. Mr C may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman