DRN-1274227
complaint
Mrs S says Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs S bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint for the following reasons.
Mrs S ticked a box on her credit card application form to indicate she wanted PPI. So, I think 
Barclays made Mrs S aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose 
to take it. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs S, and it seems to have been right for her based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. While she had some sick pay the PPI 
wouldve paid out for longer than this and also covered unemployment. She had no other 
savings, so wouldve had no other way to keep up with her repayments if shed been made 
redundant.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs S about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs S doesn't appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didn't cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to her. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments and those of her representatives, including what 
they said about her sick pay and savings. But these points dont change my conclusion. 
Mrs S initially indicated she had more sick pay and savings, but when we double-checked 
this via her representatives, we were told she thought she had about six months sick pay 
and no savings. So, Ive used that information in reaching my decision. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman