DRN-4389796
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Acasta European Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim made under his sofa warranty policy.  
Any reference to Acasta includes the actions of its agents. Mr A is being represented on this 
complaint, so any reference to him, also includes the comments of his representative.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr A purchased a warranty for his reclining three-seater sofa in 2019. The warranty 
is underwritten by Acasta and provides cover for accidental damage to fabric, 
staining, and structural defects. Mr A also added cover specifically for the reclining 
mechanism of his sofa, which covers: 
Faults being identified outside of the retailers guarantee period that have occurred 
due to a faulty or defective components, specifically: 
oBending or breaking of any metal components associated with the 
mechanism.
oFailure of any electrical equipment associated with the mechanism.
oDamage to other product components should the damage be directly linked to 
the failure of the mechanism which would be covered by this policy. 
oBroken handles, buttons, snapped cables.
In April 2023, Mr A made a claim when the reclining mechanism started to judder 
upon closing. Acasta sent a technician who concluded the mechanism had twisted 
because Mr A had been sitting on one side of the sofa when it was reclined, and this 
had caused the mechanism to unbalance. 
Based on this, Acasta declined the claim saying the mechanism had twisted because 
of wear and tear  and this type of damage isnt covered under the policy. 
Unhappy, Mr A brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
upheld it. She was satisfied the policy covered the twisting of the recliner mechanism 
and that it was unfair for Acasta to rely on the wear and tear exclusion because: 
othe sofa was being used in line with its intended purpose  namely, to recline 
 and it was during the normal course of this use that it developed a fault.  
othe sofa was only three years old, and she wasnt satisfied the reclining 
mechanism should be nearing the end of its life. 
othe issue with the recliner should be considered as a defective or faulty 
component.
othere was nothing in the policy to say the damage had to be a manufacturing 
defect to be covered. 
Acasta disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reach  Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute theres a problem with the reclining mechanism of Mr As sofa. 
Acastas technicians report says the electric recliner mechanism can be fitted to 
replace [it]. 
Here, the reclining mechanism had twisted. The policy covers Bending or breaking 
of any metal components associated with the mechanism if this is a result of faulty 
or defective components.
Acasta has said the use of the sofa and the way Mr A sat on it led to its wear and 
tear over time. And that the damage wasnt because of a faulty or defective 
component. The policy defines wear and tear as the gradual deterioration 
associated with normal use and age of the product. As Acasta is seeking to rely on 
this exclusion to decline the claim, the onus is on it to show it applies. 
Mr A has told this Service he and his wife sit at both ends of the sofa in the evenings 
 and that when they do, its not always in the recline position. 
The sofa was approximately three or so years old when he made the claim. I dont 
consider the recliner mechanism to be of such an age where the deterioration of it 
can reasonably be attributed to its age. Particularly when theres no evidence to 
suggest Mr As use of the sofa was beyond what can reasonably be expected. 
While I take into account the limited comments provided by Acastas expert, Mr A 
and his partner simply sitting on the sofa leading to it failing within that timeframe 
doesnt persuade me the sofa was a product without fault or defect. So, Im satisfied 
the damage is because of either faulty or defective components. Acasta has said the 
fault needs to be a manufacturing one, but I cant see that this is referenced in the 
policy document and so, Im not satisfied this must be demonstrated for the damage 
to be covered. 
On balance, Im more persuaded the reclining mechanism developed a fault whilst it 
was being used as intended  to recline  rather than because of wear and tear 
associated with how Mr A sitting on the sofa. And so, I dont consider it reasonable 
for Acasta to decline the claim on this basis
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Acasta European Insurance Company 
Limited to accept the claim.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman