DRN-2899716
The complaint
Mr C complains that Builders Direct SA refused to accept a claim under his caravan 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C took out a caravan insurance policy through the Caravan Club, underwritten by 
Builders Direct SA. Mr C believes a stone or other debris struck the window of his caravan 
while he was driving in July 2020, causing a significant crack in the caravans front window. 
He made a claim to the Caravan Club under his policy. 
Mr C was going on another caravan holiday so put some heavy duty tape over the crack to 
prevent further damage, as suggested by the Caravan Clubs repairer. The Caravan Clubs 
assessor examined the damage in August 2020, shortly after Mr C returned from this second 
trip.
The Caravan Clubs assessor concluded that the damage to the window was unlikely to 
have been caused by a stone or other road debris. Instead, he said the damage was due to 
a gradual operating cause, namely flexing during transit and expansion and contraction  in 
other words, wear and tear. Mr Cs policy doesnt cover damage caused by wear and tear, 
so the Caravan Club rejected his claim. It told him it would review its decision if Mr C got a 
second opinion which reached a different conclusion.
Mr C doesnt believe the Caravan Clubs assessor considered all relevant information for his 
report. He says:
The assessor didnt consider the impact of the journeys made after the initial crack 
occurred. Mr C believes these journeys made the crack worse.
The assessor said the damage was unlikely to be caused by a stone or debris but 
didnt provide any more details.
The caravan manufacturer didnt agree that the window was prone to cracking, as the 
assessor told him.
The assessor didnt acknowledge that Mr C drilled the small hole below the window 
to allow water to drain from where it had collected and prevent further damage.
Mr C believes the damage to his caravan is covered by his policy and wants the Caravan 
Club to settle his claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the assessors report showed the damage to Mr Cs caravan wasnt covered by his 
policy. He concluded that the Caravan Clubs decision not to accept the claim was fair.
Mr C disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C believes he heard something from the road hit the caravan window, causing the crack. 
However, the assessors report says the crack was unlikely to have been caused by a loose 
stone  or anything else flung up from the road  for two reasons:
1. A stone would have left a visible point of impact on the window. There wasnt one.
2. A stone wouldnt have caused a big enough impact to crack both the outer and inner 
window panes.
Instead, he concluded that the damage was as a result of a gradual operating cause, or 
wear and tear.
Page 7 of the policy booklet (Section 1: Caravan) sets out what isnt covered by Mr Cs 
policy. This includes wear and tear any gradually operating process cracks to windows 
or panels unless this has been caused by accidental damage.  
In October 2020, the Caravan Club told Mr C it would be happy for him to get a second 
opinion and it would pay for this. I think this was a fair offer. Mr C says he tried to find an 
independent assessor. However, he told us that, given the time since the crack occurred and 
worsened, he couldnt find anyone willing to inspect the damage. 
I accept that by that stage it was almost three months since the crack developed and it had 
got worse. But I think an independent expert might at least have offered an opinion on the 
assessors two reasons why a stone didnt cause the crack. 
This means the only expert assessment of the damage I have is that by the Caravan Clubs 
assessor. His findings dont strike me as illogical or unreasonable. Ive also considered his 
response to Mr Cs challenges to his report and, again, his comments appear reasonable: 
The damage may have got worse between incident and inspection, but it doesnt 
mean hes wrong about the lack of a visible impact mark and damage to the inner 
pane.
A manufacturer isnt likely to accept that their windows can crack. Also, Mr Cs 
caravan is eight years old and outside warranty.
The report does note that Mr C drilled the hole below the window. The assessor 
didnt think this was relevant.
I know Mr C believes he heard road debris hit the caravan and this cracked the window. But 
the assessors report says otherwise, and Mr C hasnt provided any evidence that 
contradicts it. The report says the damage was caused by wear and tear, not a one-off 
accident. In my opinion, this conclusion is reasonable. And, as the Caravan Club explained, 
Mr Cs policy doesnt cover him for damage caused by wear and tear, so unfortunately hes 
not covered.
I know Mr C thinks insurance companies try to hide behind small print to avoid paying out on 
claims, and in some cases he may well be right. However, in this case I think the Caravan 
Clubs decision not to accept Mr Cs claim was fair.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman