DRN-3596946
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr A is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in August 2015. The purchase was funded by a zero-
interest five-year loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and 
omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. Mr A says the installer misled him 
into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr A and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC did not agree, 
and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated 
benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right is the figure £748.91. I think this figure is 
conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is 
£8,995, payable over five years. This document was signed by Mr A immediately below 
those figures, and so I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information 
to his attention.
One fifth of the amount borrowed would clearly come to about £1,800 each year. That is 
more than twice the stated benefit figure for the first year. Again, I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr A about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
The CMC has argued that where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact 
that they could have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law. 
I agree, but I do not think that a false representation was made. The evidence strongly 
suggests that the salesman did not say that the panels would be self-funding.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman