DRN-3624768
The complaint
Mr C complains about Grosvenor Wealth Management Limiteds (GWM) advice in 
connection with transferring the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr C was a member of his employers DB scheme. In late 2016, on the recommendation of a 
colleague, he approached GWM for advice on the feasibility of opting out of the DB scheme 
and reinvesting his pension funds in specific shares to be held within a SIPP.
GWM gathered information about Mr Cs DB scheme entitlements. It conducted a fact find 
with him and assessed his attitude to risk. It also commissioned a transfer value analysis 
report (TVAS). Amongst other things GWM noted that Mr C was aged 49, in good health, 
married with three children one of whom remained financially dependent on him and his wife. 
He had an investment portfolio worth around £30,000. He owned his home with an interest-
only mortgage, which had an outstanding balance of around £145,000. It assessed his 
attitude to risk as moderately adventurous. Mr Cs DB scheme had a cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of around £285,500 which would pay him a pension in retirement of 
£22,940 a year.
In February 2017 GWM sent Mr C a letter setting out its advice. Such documents are usually 
known in the industry as suitability reports, so thats the term I will use in this decision. The 
suitability report noted that Mr C wanted to opt out of his DB scheme in order to: take control 
of his pension funds; achieve a better outcomes in retirement, and have the potential for 
improved death benefits. The report said that the growth rate required (the critical yield) from 
a SIPP was too high to recommend a transfer on monetary terms alone unless Mr C was 
confident that he could generate an average return of 9% a year. But the report concluded 
that transferring the CETV would achieve Mr Cs stated objectives of:
Increasing his pension
Taking TFC at retirement
Lump sum benefits on his death
Provision for a spouse's and dependents' pension
The security of his pension fund
Mr C opted out of his DB scheme and transferred his funds into a SIPP. 
In 2021 Mr C complained about the advice GWM had given as he didnt think it was suitable 
for him. GWM didnt uphold his complaint. It said, amongst other things, that Mr C had 
already decided to transfer out of the DB scheme by the time he contacted GWM and asked 
it for advice on the feasibility of doing so. It told Mr C about the risks involved in transferring 
out of a DB scheme, including that he could be worse off in retirement as a result. And that 
as Mr C would be managing his own portfolio, it would be difficult for it to assess the 
likelihood of Mr C achieving the required returns.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didnt think 
GWM had treated Mr C fairly. In short she said that a transfer wasnt in Mr Cs best interests 
and GWMs suitability report wasnt clear on that point.
GWM didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. Amongst other things 
it said that Mr C could bear the risk of transferring in order to achieve his objectives. That 
his income in retirement would have been well in excess of his modest outgoings. And that 
the TVAS report had showed that, with growth of less than 3% a year, Mr C could meet his 
income needs in retirement. It said that transferring also allowed Mr C to meet his broader 
objectives. In particular it would have paid enough TFC to repay his interest only mortgage. 
It added that Mr C was an experienced investor who fully understood the risks he was 
taking. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In responding to this complaint GWM has made a number of detailed points. I've thought 
about everything its said. But in this decision I dont intend to address each and every issue 
but will instead focus on what I see as being the key points at the heart of Mr Cs complaint 
and the reasons for my decision. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of GWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, GWM should 
only have considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Cs best 
interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best 
interests.
Clarity of advice
Its apparent that at the time Mr C approached GWM for advice about transferring from his 
DB scheme hed previously discussed the possibility with a colleague. And, having done so, 
he was clearly leaning towards a transfer with a vision of where he wanted to reinvest his DB 
scheme funds. He said he intended to transfer out of the DB scheme and join his employers 
money purchase scheme. GWMs suitability report says that it would be imprudent for Mr C 
to take that action as it would result in the potential loss of benefits such as the death in 
service scheme. Mr C said hed already decided to do so and only needed advice on 
whether or not it was feasible. He also said he was concerned, following recent press 
reports, that his pension value might drop in the future.
I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with 
preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of a pension scheme. But GWM 
was tasked with rationally addressing Mr Cs concerns and providing an appropriately 
balanced view of his available options. And in order to recommend that Mr C should give up 
his safeguarded benefits GWM needed to be able to clearly demonstrate that doing so was 
in his best interests. And, if it didnt think it was in his best interests then it needed to make 
that plain to Mr C.
GWMs suitability report does set out some of the guarantees Mr C would be giving up by 
transferring. It also points out some of the risks inherent with such a transfer, in particular 
that the returns were dependent on investment performance. But GWMs report wasnt clear 
whether or not it was in Mr Cs best interests to transfer. Indeed having read the report 
several times, it reads to me that GWM was not only saying that such a transfer was feasible 
but that he would benefit from doing so. For example the report makes the following 
comments:
if tax free cash is a priority, transferring to the personal pension regime would be a better 
option
If securing better death benefits for your family is important, then transfer to a personal 
pension would seem to be preferable
The time frame over which a transferred fund would remain invested is sufficiently long for 
the view to be taken that the average investment returns needed to achieve the outcome you 
desire should be achievable through a suitably constructed, diversified portfolio.
And it concluded by saying that - subject to caveats:
we conclude that transferring the CETV should be able to achieve your stated prioritised 
objectives
In other words, the final comment is that Mr C can achieve his goals by transferring out of 
the DB scheme. That, to my mind, does not clearly spell out to Mr C that transferring was not 
in his best interests and instead can be interpreted as advice to do exactly that. Given that 
transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event, once transferred theres usually no going 
back, if GWMs conclusion was that it wasnt in Mr Cs best interests to transfer then it needed to spell that out far more clearly. As it stands I dont think the content of its suitability 
report was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Financial viability 
GWM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
GWM gave its advice during the period when this Service was publishing 'discount rates' on 
our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given. 
Mr C was age 48 at the time of the advice and the suitability report says he wanted to retire 
at age 62, although I note that the fact-find said that Mr Cs desired retirement age was 60. 
The DB schemes normal retirement age was 65. The critical yield required to match Mr Cs 
benefits at age 65 was 7.3% if he took a full pension and 6.3% if he took TFC and a reduced 
pension. The critical yield increased to 8.5% and 7.1% respectively if Mr C retired at age 60. 
This compares with the discount rate of 4.3% a year for 16 full years to retirement at age 65 
and 3.9% for retiring at age 60. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also 
remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, 
the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
moderately adventurous attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest 
critical yield was 6.3%, I think Mr C was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk. 
GWM has provided cashflow models in its TVAS which it says shows Mr C wouldve been 
able to meet his needs despite the high critical yields by taking income by way of drawdown. 
Ive considered this, but the TVAS models show that if Mr Cs SIPP grew at the regulators 
lowest projection rate of 2% then it would be depleted after Mr C turned 81 which is earlier 
than Mr Cs life expectancy. Its notable that GWMs suitability report gives the depletion age 
as 85 but this is clearly a mistake as all the models show the depletion age as being 81 for 
the low growth rate. So, if there were market crashes or sustained periods of poor 
performance then there was a very real chance that Mr Cs fund would grow at a much 
slower rate and would be depleted far sooner. 
Also Mr Cs fund would be further depleted by the SIPP providers charges. Charges he 
would not have to pay if he remained in his DB scheme. But the suitability report makes no 
reference to these charges at all.
Further its notable that GWM didnt give Mr C advice on where to reinvest his funds. I 
understand that Mr C didnt ask for that advice as he had a clear intention of the stock he 
wished to reinvest in before he approached GWM. So GWM limited its advice and said that if 
Mr C invested in a suitably constructed, diverse portfolio he should be able to achieve the 
required returns. But the regulator has made it clear that in order to give suitable advice on a 
transfer or switch of pension benefits, the advice has to include the suitability of the 
underlying investments. And its evident from the file that GWM was aware that Mr C 
intended to reinvest the pension funds in a single or very limited number of companies. That should have been a red flag to GWM. And even if Mr C hadn't asked for investment advice it 
should have been very clear to GWM that for Mr C to invest his entire pension fund in a 
single or only a few companies shares would be an extremely risky strategy and one that 
wasn't worth taking. Thats because Mr C would essentially be putting all/most of his eggs in 
one basket, so if the company or companies invested in suffered a significant fall in share 
values that could have a dramatic effect on Mr Cs pension fund. 
However, even if that wasnt the case. GWM itself identified that Mr C was unlikely to match 
the DB scheme benefits by transferring and said that it couldnt recommend a transfer on 
monetary grounds alone unless Mr C could achieve investment returns of 9% a year. That 
was higher than the regulators highest projection rate of 8% a year and was something that 
was extremely unlikely particularly given Mr Cs attitude to risk. So it wasnt in Mr Cs best 
interests to transfer. 
GWMs said that, as Mr C had very modest outgoings he didnt need the income from his DB 
scheme in retirement. But Mr C still had around 12 years until he was 60, 14 to 62, and 
almost 17 to 65. And his income needs could change before he reached retirement age. So I 
don't think it was in his best interests to recommend that he give up his safeguarded benefits 
in retirement when his financial needs in later life weren't fully understood and his retirement 
was some way off. 
Its notable that in its response to Mr Cs complaint GWM said its position remains that we 
would not have recommended a transfer. But that ignores the fact that it concluded its 
suitability report by saying that  subject to certain caveats  Mr C should be able to 
achieve [his] stated prioritised objectives by transferring. In other words, it was 
recommending a transfer in its suitability report in order to achieve his other objectives. So 
I've gone on to consider if meeting those objectives meant a transfer was suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits.
TFC
GWMs suitability report gives maximising TFC as Mr Cs second highest priority. But the 
suitability report doesn't at any point explain why that was. Whilst it notes he had an interest 
only mortgage, it doesnt say that Mr C wanted to transfer his pension in order to have 
access to higher TFC in order to pay that mortgage. And theres no evidence that GWM 
discussed with Mr C why maximising TFC was worthwhile giving up guaranteed benefits for. 
Mr C told us that as he had an interest only mortgage he wanted to maximise his TFC in 
order to pay that mortgage off. In response to our investigators assessment GWM said that 
Mr Cs DB scheme would pay Mr C TFC of around £105,800 at age 65, which wouldn't be 
enough to cover his mortgage. But, based on a consistent growth rate of 5% a year  the 
regulators middle rate projection which might have been feasible given his attitude to risk  
in a different fund Mr C could expect to take TFC of almost £152,000 which would allow him 
to repay the full amount owed. However, what GWM didnt say was that if Mr Cs fund grew 
at the lowest rate of 2%, then it would only provide TFC of around £92,000 at age 65, which 
would be less than his entitlement under the DB scheme, and so clearly would leave him in a 
worse position. 
GWMs role was to discern what Mr Cs wants and needs were and why he wanted to 
transfer his pension. Its role wasnt simply to do what he wanted without appropriate analysis 
and challenge of his motives for doing so whilst discussing the implications of taking those 
actions with him. But I've seen little evidence of such a challenge even though that would 
have been necessary in order to help Mr C make an informed decision. Indeed I've seen no 
evidence that GWM explored with Mr C whether there was any other means of him being 
able to pay off his mortgage. GWMs fact find suggests that Mr C had 14 years remaining on his mortgage term. It also 
shows that after paying his regular outgoings Mr C had a disposable income of over £2,100 
a month. And he could have used some of that disposable income to take out a repayment 
mortgage that would also pay off the capital element of it. Alternatively, he could have 
diverted some of his disposable income into a suitable investment vehicle, over the 
remaining term of his mortgage with the aim of using that to repay it at the appropriate time. 
Also Mr C had an investment portfolio worth around £30,000 which he could have used in 
retirement to pay off some of his mortgage in 14 years time. But theres no evidence that 
GWM explored any of these options with Mr C. So I dont think GWM met its obligations to 
challenge his objectives in light of what he would be giving up. And I dont think it was in his 
best interests to transfer out of the scheme in order to have potential access to a higher TFC 
amount. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP was likely an attractive feature to Mr C. Thats because whatever
was left within Mr Cs SIPP at the date of his death would be passed on to his family. And, if 
that happened before his retirement or soon after then that would likely be a significant sum. 
In contrast the DB scheme would pay Mr Cs wife 60% of his yearly pension after he died. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP because of this, the priority 
here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. 
But in transferring out of the DB scheme Mr C was essentially giving up a guaranteed, index 
linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum for his family that 
they may not need for many years to come.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr Cs 
wife would receive 60% of his pension on his death and that would be payable to her until 
her death. And I dont think GWM made the value of these death benefits clear enough to 
Mr C when compared to those available from a SIPP. Not only were they guaranteed and 
escalated but they were not dependent on investment performance or how much was left in 
the pot, whereas the sum available to Mr Cs family on his death in a SIPP was.
Given the size of the CETV I can understand that Mr C might have thought that guaranteed 
a significant lump sum for his family on his death. But, the available fund was reliant on a 
number of factors, including investment growth. And, as I've said above, a period of poor 
performance could reduce the sum available as a death benefit. Further, the fund would 
reduce as Mr C drew down money from it. So if he took higher sums from it in the early 
years of his retirement, then that could significantly reduce the amounts available to live off, 
let alone to leave as a legacy for his family on his death.
If Mr C genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on investment 
returns, I think GWM could have explored life insurance with him. Mr C already had term 
insurance to cover his mortgage. But if he wanted an extra sum to cover his retirement 
years, then he could have taken additional cover out on a whole of life or term basis. I 
understand that such cover can be expensive. But if he didnt want to pay a significant 
premium then GWMs starting point ought to have been to ask Mr C how much he would 
ideally like to leave to his family. It could then have looked into cover for that sum. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. And I think GWM should have made this 
clear to him.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
GWM said that Mr C wanted control of the fund. And he did have some experience of 
investing, as he held a portfolio, which he described as small and worth in the region of 
£30,000. But its not clear to what extent GWM explored Mr Cs investment experience. And, 
while he didnt ask GWM for investment advice, as Ive said above, his plan to reinvest his 
pension funds into shares in a single company  rather than spreading that risk across a 
number of funds, assets and equities, displays a certain amount of inexperience. So I think 
that if GWM had pointed this out to him and made it clear the extent of the risks he was 
taking then it seems likely hed have thought again about his options.
Its also apparent that Mr C had some concerns about the future viability of the DB scheme. 
It was known to be in deficit at the time. But the funding of the DB scheme was not in a 
position such that Mr C should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his 
pension. And his employer had a plan in place to reduce the deficit over the coming years. 
So Mr Cs concerns shouldnt have been a reason for considering a transfer. In reply to our 
investigators assessment GWM said that its suitability report didnt comment on the financial 
stability of the scheme because it didnt believe it formed part of the rationale for whether the 
pension should be transferred or not. But GWMs suitability report refers to Mr Cs concerns 
over a reduction in his CETV in the future and him wanting to secure it. In other words Mr C 
was concerned that the scheme deficit might have an effect on his pension value. So that 
was clearly something that was affecting Mr Cs thinking and as such in order to give Mr C 
advice that was clear fair and not misleading, it should have been something that GWM 
addressed. But it didnt do so. 
Summary
I think its apparent that Mr C approached GWM with a plan to transfer out of his DB scheme 
and to reinvest the funds in a SIPP. But GWM wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might 
have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr C needed and 
clearly recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think GWMs advice was suitable for Mr C. It simply wasnt clear enough 
that by transferring, Mr C was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And in my view, 
there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. So, I 
think GWM should have clearly and unequivocally advised Mr C to remain in his DB scheme. 
But GWM didnt do that.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would've gone ahead anyway, against GWM's 
advice, if it had provided clear advice not to opt out of his DB scheme. As I've said above, 
Mr C was leaning towards transferring when he approached GWM. And he was clearly 
prepared to take some risks with his pension when he did so. But its also apparent that 
Mr Cs investment strategy, that is intending to invest in just one or two companies, was 
somewhat short-sighted. And if GWM had made this plain to him; clearly explaining why 
transferring was not in his best interests; and that any advantages of doing so simply weren't 
worth giving up the safeguarded benefits for, I think Mr C would have accepted that expert 
advice and remained in his DB scheme. 
In light of the above, I think GWM should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He didnt make 
a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the 
new guidance to come into effect.
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C.
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
GWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect GWM to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, GWM should pay the compensation if 
possible into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
GWM should pay it directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income 
tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date GWM receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further GWM must add interest to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes GWM to pay Mr C. Its possible 
that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time taken to settle 
goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above. In those circumstances, any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Grosvenor Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, 
I would additionally require Grosvenor Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr C any interest 
on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£160,000, I would only require GWM to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum 
of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Grosvenor Wealth Management Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Grosvenor Wealth 
Management Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that 
Mr C can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman