DRN-4131311
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr B was referred to JLT by his DB scheme in 2017. In March 2017 JLT completed a fact-
find to gather information about Mr B circumstances and objectives. It noted the following:
Mr B was aged 60 and his wife, with whom he was in the process of separating, was 
aged 66. 
Mr B wanted to retire at age 66.
Mr B had an annual income of £19,000; Mrs B wasnt working and was in receipt of 
her state pension at £479 per month.
Mr B had no mortgage or any other debt.
He wanted some cash to do certain projects.
It was important for Mr B to provide for his wife and others.
JLT also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be very 
low or zero. 
JLT contacted the DB scheme for information. The information provided by the scheme 
administrator showed that Mr B had been a member of the scheme for nine years that the 
total cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) for Mr Bs scheme benefits was £219,434.36. 
The scheme information also showed that at the schemes normal retirement date (NRD) of 
age 60, Mr Bs deferred pension benefits would provide him with an annual income of £7,152 
or a tax-free lump sum of £34,435.56 and a reduced annual income of £5,165.33. At age 66 
Mr B could get an annual income of £12,648 or a tax-free lump sum of £54,377 and a 
reduced annual income of £8,757. 
In May 2017 JLT advised Mr B to transfer his pension benefits into an immediate vesting 
personal pension (IVPP) from which he would take a guaranteed, non-escalating single life 
income for life of £7,325.16 (a lifetime annuity) and tax-free cash of £54,858.89. The 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were, in summary: 
That he required immediate cash to generate a cash lump sum and income following 
his separation from Mrs B and had no other means of obtaining the sums he needed.
Both the tax-free cash (TFC) and the annuity available from the IVPP were higher 
than the TFC available from the scheme.
That Mr B was not prepared to take any investment risk with his pension and wanted 
the certainty of a guaranteed income for life rather than transfer his DB scheme 
benefits and take advantage of the pension freedoms available. 
That Mr B had disclosed certain health issues which could improve his retirement 
benefits.
Mr B had recently separated from Mrs B and they had both agreed she didnt require 
a spouses pension but he preferred Mrs B to receive a lump sum in the event of his 
death should he pre-decease her.
The suitability report also noted that Mr B had a savings bond due to mature in seven years 
time which was predicted to be worth £15,000. 
JLT, as required by the regulator, also produced a transfer value analysis report (TVAS).
Mr B accepted the recommendation and the transfer took effect in June 2017; a total of 
£219,434.36 was received into the IVPP with a provider I shall refer to as J. The TVAS 
assumed an annual charge of 0.5% for the IVPP. JLTs fee for arranging the transfer was 
paid for by the DB scheme trustees. 
In September 2021 Mr B, through his representative, complained to JLT about the suitability 
of the transfer advice. He said:
JLT owed him a duty of care and had been negligent in the advice it had given him. It 
should not have recommended that he transfer his DB scheme. 
When giving him advice, JLT had not taken his circumstances into account.
His investment experience, capacity for loss and attitude to risk (ATR) had not been 
adequately assessed by JLT or at all. 
The advice to transfer wasnt suitable for someone with no investment experience 
and no capacity for loss.
He had been induced to transfer his DB scheme on the promise by JLT that his 
pension fund would grow at a rate in excess of any growth that would be achieved by 
the DB scheme if it remained in situ. 
He had sustained a loss of £114,105.87.
JLT looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that 
during a telephone call with Mr B from around the time of the advice he had said that he 
wanted TFC now and intended to split it in half with his wife as well as give some of his 
monthly pension annuity to her. It said too that it had discussed various options with Mr B 
and that he liked the option to have a guaranteed lifetime annuity so he knew what he would 
be receiving each month. 
JLT said that transferring to an income drawdown policy was dismissed because Mr B didnt 
want to take on any investment risk. Similarly it said staying in the DB scheme was also 
dismissed because despite it providing a higher pension the TFC was much less. And JLT 
said Mr B was comfortable with taking on both a level annuity and the loss in buying power 
he would experience due to the effects of inflation because he felt his state pension would 
help him manage financially when he did eventually retire at age 66. 
JLT also said that it would take 15 years from commencement of the IVPP before any DB 
scheme payments would catch up with the payments Mr B received from the IVPP and it 
would take 33 years before the total income received from the DB scheme was more than 
that received from the IVPP. It also said that Mr and Mrs B were facing a change in their 
circumstances and that accessing a greater amount of TFC was now of importance to them 
as was the fact they would no longer require a spouses pension. So it concluded that the 
advice it had given Mr B had been suitable in the circumstances. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to JLT, Mr B complained to this service. He told 
our Investigator that he owned a mortgage free property and that he gave Mrs B £3,000 of 
the TFC he had received along with £200 per month from the annuity. As for the rest of the TFC, he said he had spent about £4,000 on clearing debt, a further £12,000 on a car and 
had put the rest in the bank. He also told our Investigator that he had taken the money too 
soon. And Mr B said that if he hadnt transferred his DB scheme he would have been able to 
afford to give his wife £100 per month rather than the £200 he had been paying her. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He thought 
that it hadnt been in Mr Bs best interests to transfer his DB scheme and that JLT hadnt 
provided Mr B with suitable advice so he recommended that JLT compensate Mr B in line 
with the regulators guidance. Our Investigator said that Mr B was likely to receive benefits of 
a lower overall value as a result of transferring his DB scheme as a result of investing in line 
with his ATR. And he thought there was no real pressing need for him to transfer his DB 
scheme to access TFC. He thought that JLT hadnt interrogated why Mr B really needed the 
money or whether there were other ways for him to achieve his objectives. 
Mr B accepted our Investigators recommendation but JLT didnt. In response to our 
Investigators view JLT reiterated many points it had made previously. It also said it had 
originally contacted Mr B in 2011 when he was offered an enhanced CETV by the scheme 
trustees. Then he had said he needed cash to pay for a car but its advice had been not to 
transfer which Mr B had accepted. It said its advice to transfer in 2017 had meant that Mr B 
had been left with a guaranteed income for life. And, it said Mr B had been clear that he 
wanted TFC as soon as possible. JLT said that whilst there had been gaps in its advice, it 
was clear its adviser had explained all the options to Mr B but that, fundamentally, he had 
wanted to access the TFC element of his pension and that he would have sought to do so 
even had he been advised not to transfer. On balance, JLT remained of the view that its 
advice to Mr B to transfer had been suitable. 
Our Investigator thought about what JLT said but wasnt persuaded to change his mind 
about the outcome of the complaint. JLT then sent our Investigator the call recordings 
between it and Mr B from around the time of the advice. Our Investigator listened to them but 
they didnt lead him to change his opinion. He thought they illustrated that JLT should have 
done more to interrogate why Mr B needed capital at that time and that it should have 
explained that there was no requirement to informally share his retirement savings with his 
wife at that point as, should they later divorce, it was up to her to raise a claim on them as 
part of any divorce settlement. And if Mr B had needed some capital, our Investigator 
thought JLT should have looked into the possibility of him borrowing to do so. Our 
Investigator also pointed out that Mr B didnt need the additional income either but, as 
consequence of taking it, would be dependent on a level annuity without inflation protection 
for the rest of his life. Our Investigator thought that life assurance could have been explored 
with Mr B by JLT but wasnt. 
JLT replied to say advising Mr B to borrow to raise capital would not have been suitable 
given the impact any repayments would have on his disposable income. It also said that 
given Mr Bs health issues, life cover would have been expensive to arrange. Finally it said 
Mr B had not made it aware at the time that he only intended to give his wife £3,000 and to 
pay her £200 per month.
The complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLTs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, JLT should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
As required by the regulator, JLT carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report in May 
2017 showing how much Mr Bs fund would need to grow by each year (the critical yield) in 
order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme at ages 65 and 66. Whilst I note that 
JLT concluded that the required returns to match Mr Bs DB scheme were likely to be 
unachievable, and that transferring to an income drawdown policy was dismissed because 
Mr B didnt want to take on any investment risk, JLTs advice and recommendation in this 
case was not based on Mr B retiring at 65 or 66 and investing his pension monies in the 
meantime in the belief that he would be better off by transferring. Rather JLTs advice was 
based on addressing what it considered was Mr Bs immediate need for both income and a 
cash lump sum (at age 60). So while Im satisfied this analysis was clearly explained to Mr B 
in the suitability report, I dont think its necessary in this case for me to consider in detail the 
financial viability of the transfer. What I need to consider in this case are the other reasons 
JLT believes mean the transfer was both suitable and in Mr Bs best interests. 
Flexibility and income needs/Mr Bs specific objectives
It seems that the main reason for JLT recommending to Mr B that he transfer his DB scheme 
for a guaranteed level single life annuity and TFC was to have the flexibility to access a TFC 
lump sum so he could give some capital to his wife in order to assist with their separation; 
JLT also noted that Mr B had no other means of providing a lump sum to his wife. 
Additionally JLT said that the increase in his income as a result of having the annuity meant that Mr B could give a monthly amount to Mrs B whilst at the same time maintaining 
sufficient income in retirement for himself (once he was also drawing his state pension). 
But Im not persuaded that there was a genuine need for Mr B to access his TFC to give a 
lump sum to Mrs B to assist with their separation. I say this because Mr B in fact didnt split 
the TFC with Mrs B rather he told our Investigator that, in the end, he gave his wife £3,000 of 
the almost £59,000 he received. Mr B also told our Investigator he spent another £4,000 
clearing debt and about £12,000 on a new car, neither having been mentioned at all during 
the advice process. The remainder remains in the bank. 
Ive listened to the phone calls JLT has provided and accept that during the first call Mr B 
told JLT he intended to split the lump sum 50/50 with Mrs B. In the second call however, Mr 
B told JLT he intended to keep all the TFC for himself and put at least £40,000 in the bank. 
Ive seen no interrogation by JLT of Mr B as to why Mr B wanted to give his wife a specific 
sum or what she needed it for. Whilst JLT has said its reasonable to assume that there 
were costs associated with the separation for which the money would be required there is no 
evidence about what those costs specifically were. And on later being told by Mr B that he 
had changed his mind and intended to keep all of the TFC and put the majority of it in the 
bank JLT didnt change its advice or challenge Mr B about his plans. 
JLT has said to us that the fact-find noted that Mr B wanted cash to pay for a car and had 
£10,000 in savings; however neither was, in fact, mentioned. The only reason given for 
accessing a lump sum at that point was that Mr B needed some cash to do certain projects. 
But what these projects were and exactly how much was needed went undocumented and 
uninterrogated. If JLTs understanding was that Mr B had £10,000 in savings and now 
seemed intent on only using £14,000 from the TFC he was about to receive then it should 
have explored whether using them to achieve his objectives was an option rather than 
transferring his guaranteed DB scheme benefits in order to do so. 
There is a similar vagueness in the suitability report prepared by JLT. There the objective for 
the recommendation is stated as being a requirement for an immediate cash lump sum 
because of the separation from Mrs B and the fact that there was no other means of 
obtaining it. What the lump sum was specifically needed for isnt documented here either. 
And, as can be heard from the second phone call (and from what Mr B actually did with the 
money when he got it) he didnt need or want it for the purpose of giving 50% of it to Mrs B.
So whilst Mr B might have been tempted to access cash from his pension, particularly as the 
amount of TFC available if he transferred was significantly greater than the TFC he could, at 
that point, access from his DB scheme (having already attained the schemes NRD of age 
60), Ive seen no evidence that he had a genuine need to access funds. It is clear to me from 
the both the fact-find, the suitability report and the phone calls that JLT established no 
immediate need at all to access any TFC. I note from one of the calls that Mr B said that he 
didnt need £54,000 now but just wanted some money and at another point he said he just 
needed £20,000. But I cant see that any alternative means of achieving this objective for 
Mr B were explored by JLT  such as the possibility of taking out a small mortgage or a 
personal loan for example or whether he could use the bond he latterly mentioned he had.
Ive noted JLTs comment that it understood Mr B to be living in rented accommodation at 
the time so any borrowing would have been unsecured thereby attracting a higher interest 
rate than a mortgage would. JLT has said that taking a personal loan of £20,000 over a 
period of six years would have meant repayments of just under £300 per month. But this 
overlooks the fact that it wasnt ascertained exactly how much Mr B did need, if indeed he 
needed anything at all. Its unclear to me why JLT thought Mr B was living in rented 
accommodation. Having listened to all the calls Mr B says at one point that hes moved into a flat but there is no mention that hes renting it. So Im not persuaded that any unsecured 
lending was necessarily unaffordable. Of course it may have been but there is no information 
available for me to be able to reasonably draw that conclusion because JLT didnt document 
Mr Bs actual circumstances or his monthly outgoings. 
So despite the lack of any genuine need to access funds, the option of retaining the DB 
scheme and taking benefits at some future point was specifically rejected on the grounds 
Mr B required immediate access to his pension in order to give an unspecified amount of 
money to his wife for no specifically quantifiable reason. 
Nor can I see that JLT explained to Mr B that it was up to Mrs B in any divorce proceedings 
to raise a claim on his pension rather than there being any requirement for him to informally 
share his retirement savings with his wife at that point by prematurely giving up his DB 
pension benefits. 
So I dont think JLT did enough to ascertain precisely what Mr Bs stated objective was, or 
how much capital was required or if there was some other means of achieving it. There was 
no analysis of how much capital and income Mr B wanted to give Mrs B and what it would be 
used for. Mr B has said that after the transfer he gave Mrs B £200 per month but, had the 
transfer not proceeded and he hadnt been in receipt of an annuity, he would still have been 
able to afford £100 out of his monthly income. But without evidence as to what his monthly 
outgoings were it isnt possible to say with any certainty that the only way he could pay 
Mrs B £200 per month was by transferring Mr Bs DB scheme. Likewise it isnt possible to 
say with any certainty either  as suggested by JLT  that borrowing to raise capital wasnt 
an option (because of the impact any repayments would have on Mr Bs income). I say that 
because JLT didnt interrogate Mr Bs outgoings so it isnt possible to conclude that any 
borrowing was unaffordable for him. 
Consequently its not unreasonable to conclude that the sole reason for the transfer was an 
unsuitable one in the circumstances and not one that was in Mr Bs best interests. 
There are also clear gaps in JLTs processes and fact-finding that mean that Mr B wasnt 
provided with all the information he needed to make an informed decision. By way of 
example, both the fact-find and the suitability report note that Mr S had an annual income of 
£19,000 but it is unclear, because Mr Bs actual outgoings werent documented, if there was 
any surplus income left each month from which he could pay Mrs B. All that is recorded was 
that Mr B wasnt servicing debt of any nature (which in itself is contrary to Mr Bs evidence 
that he used £4,000 of his TFC to clear debt). Mr B has since told our Investigator that he 
didnt use the full amount of his monthly annuity, putting what was left over in the bank. 
Consequently it seems to me that Mr B likely had sufficient income from which he could 
meet his outgoings and thus had no need for the additional income provided by the annuity 
at that point; he could have waited the five and half years until his selected retirement age of 
66 to draw his benefits from his DB scheme. Had he done so he was forecast to receive an 
annual pension of £12,648 (the DB scheme benefits after NRC having benefitted from a late 
retirement factor of 8.5%) the majority of which would have increased by up to 5% each 
year. Alternatively he would have been able to receive an annual pension of £8,757 (the 
majority of which would also have increased by up to 5% per year) and TFC of £54,377. But 
without gathering enough information about why Mr B needed the TFC and an annuity at 
that point I cant agree that JLT  despite providing Mr B with these figures  demonstrated 
to Mr B that transferring was in his best interests and was the only way to achieve his 
objective. 
Rather JLT recommended that Mr B transfer his DB scheme and take an annuity with J on 
the basis that it would provide greater benefits than if he were to take immediate benefits from the scheme  specifically a higher level of TFC (£54,858.89 as opposed to £34,435.56). 
But as Ive said above, there was no need immediate need for Mr B to access any cash. And 
whilst the income provided by the annuity was higher than that which would have been paid 
by the scheme at NRD (had TFC also been taken) the fact remains that the annuity and the 
DB scheme werent like for like because the latter included dependents death benefits and 
index linking whereas the former didnt.  
In fact, only two of the four annuity quotes Ive seen included provision for a dependents 
pension. The first of which was for a level annuity, payable monthly in advance with a 50% 
spouses pension and a lifetime guarantee period. In this quote the annual income was 
£7,302 together with TFC of £53,699.02. The second quotation was indexed linked, included 
a 50% spouses pension and was for an annuity payable monthly in advance. In this quote 
the annual income was £3,938.76 together with TFC of £53,669.02. Thus the second quote 
more closely mirrors the benefits of the DB scheme and is more of a like-for-like comparison. 
Whilst the pension payable in the second quotation is considerably lower than it would have 
been had Mr S taken his scheme benefits at NRD age 60 (where he would have received a 
pension of £5,165.33 each year), the TFC available under the IVPP was indeed greater at 
that point. But, as Ive explained above, there was no immediate need for him access it so I 
dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests that JLT dismissed remaining in the DB scheme as 
an option. And had JLT recommended that he defer any decision about transferring, then the 
TFC available to him under his DB scheme would have increased over the passage of time 
until the point it almost matched the TFC he received under the IVPP. And when he reached 
age 66 hed have the additional benefit, by that point, of having a greater income that was 
index linked.  
And as JLT has said, Mr B hoped he and his wife would reconcile so it was premature to 
advise him to give up the dependents benefits available under the DB scheme as he may 
have actually needed them. So, for this reason as well, Im unable to agree with JLT that the 
transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. 
In addition, JLTs recommendation provided Mr B with an additional potentially taxable 
income of £7,325.16 that he didnt appear to need. And the pension of £7,325.16 he 
received was lower than what he would have received had he remained in the scheme and 
taken his pension at his chosen retirement age. And I cant ignore that the guaranteed 
annuity was fixed  namely that it wouldnt increase over time  whereas a significant 
majority of the DB scheme pension was linked to RPI and would be subject to an annual 
increase of up to 5%. And whilst JLT has argued that it arranged an annuity for Mr B that 
had a 100% value protection and was guaranteed for life, the fact remains that he had 
exchanged an income with a degree of inflation protection for one where his buying power 
would slowly be eroded over time. So whilst I accept that the amount of annuity in payment 
wouldnt decrease over time, I cant on the other hand ignore the fact that it wouldnt 
increase and that, as time passed, its worth would in fact decrease. 
So whilst JLT discussed various options with Mr B and he liked the one where he had a 
guaranteed lifetime annuity so he knew what he would be receiving each month, the fact 
remains that he had the very same arrangement  but with the valuable benefit of being 
index linked  in his DB scheme. And whilst JLT has said that Mr B was comfortable about 
taking on both a level annuity and a loss in buying power because his state pension would 
help him financially when he did eventually retire at age 66 I cant see that it explained to him 
that it wasnt a case of his state pension helping him or plugging a hole in his buying power. 
By leaving his DB scheme where it was (because there was no pressing need to transfer) it 
would mean he could enjoy a larger retirement income that would increase each year. So, in 
these circumstances I dont think that advising Mr B to exchange an index linked pension for one that would never increase demonstrates that JLT discharged its obligation to act in 
Mr Bs best interests. 
JLT said in the suitability report that it would take 33 years before the total income received 
from the DB scheme was more than that received from the IVPP. This was based on 
assumption that the RPI would increase by 2.5% per year and CPI would increase by 2% 
per year. But as JLT itself noted in the report, there was a risk that if inflation was higher 
than the rates assumed for the purposes of its calculation then the time taken to reach the 
breakeven point (the point at which the total income received from the DB scheme was 
more than that from the IVPP) would be reduced. This in turn would have an impact on 
Mr Bs ability to maintain his standard of living. But had JLT advised Mr B that it was in his 
best interests to remain in his DB scheme then he need never be concerned about there 
being a drop in his standard of living or when that may occur. 
Ive seen no evidence that JLT meaningfully explored Mr Bs retirement objectives with him 
or determined what income he thought he would require in retirement. If JLT had acted in 
Mr Bs best interests it should have established what his retirement income needs and plans 
were. I can see that in one advice phone call Mr B told JLT he would need a retirement 
income of £20,000 per year and in a subsequent call he thought that £15,000 per year would 
be enough to live on. Why Mr B changed his mind though and what his actual retirement 
income needs were, however, doesnt seem to have been analysed by JLT. 
And whilst Mr B was noted as still working, the exact nature of his employment and income 
stream was unclear. Similarly there was a brief mention on the suitability report only (not on 
the fact-find) of a further pension plan Mr B had with his current employer where it was noted 
as having a minimal value having commenced only a year ago. If it was acting in Mr Bs best 
interests then JLT should have interrogated Mr Bs retirement needs and objectives fully and 
understood how they were to be met. 
So whilst I note the section on the fact-find which asks, What do you want to achieve with 
your pension?, the questions it contains have barely merited an answer. There are three 
sub-questions the first of which asks if the intention is to access the pension fund before 
NRD why that is; Mr B answered I need some cash to do certain projects. There then 
follows two more questions the first of which relates to taking TFC and asks how important 
that is to Mr B. There are three boxes which can be ticked  not important, desirable and 
very important; none were ticked. The question below that says, if you opt for the TFC what 
is the main reason for taking it?  but the only comment written there is To discuss. The 
next question asks how important it is that the pension increases each year. The same three 
boxes are available for ticking and none of them were. Again the box below inviting reasons 
includes only the comment, to discuss. 
Having listened to the phone calls between Mr B and JLT I note that JLT asked Mr B how 
important inflation proofing his pension was to him but the other question werent really 
addressed or, if they were, not in sufficient detail. If JLT had had full regard to Mr Bs 
information and communication needs I think it should have explored how his retirement 
objectives were to be funded once he had retired and also what was important to him. 
Ascertaining such information is key to the advice being provided and goes to show JLT 
sufficiently knew its customer. But theres no evidence that it sought to obtain this 
information.
In summary, Ive seen no evidence that Mr B needed to transfer his guaranteed DB benefits 
to achieve his sole objective (subsequently withdrawn in any event) of having the flexibility to 
access a TFC lump sum so he could give some capital to his wife in order to assist with their 
separation. Nor can I agree that he immediately needed the additional income that the 
guaranteed annuity would provide. JLT should have explored with Mr B if he really needed capital at that point and gone on to explain to Mr B how it wasnt in his best interests to 
transfer at that point in time. It should also have documented his outgoings and advised if his 
objective could be achieved without transferring and giving up his scheme benefits. Without 
any realistic insight into what Mr Bs actual retirement needs were Im unable to agree with 
JLT that the transfer was in his best interests. And whilst JLT has said that Mr B was solely 
focussed on obtaining the TFC and would have proceeded regardless of the advice it gave 
him, in those circumstances, if it wasnt comfortable with its own recommendation then it 
should have treated Mr B as an insistent client  but I cant see that it did so. So Im satisfied 
that JLT didnt provide Mr B with suitable advice for his circumstances
Death benefits
There appears to me to be some inconsistency around Mr Bs attitude to death benefits. On 
the one hand he appears to be certain that he doesnt want the IVPP to include any spouses 
pension whilst on the other (as stated in the suitability report) Mr B preferred for his spouse 
to receive a lump sum rather than an income should [he] predecease her. Further down it is 
noted that Mr B wished to provide a lump sum legacy for [his] wife should [he] predecease 
her and this is important to [him]. It was also noted on the suitability report that his grown-up 
children didnt need any lump sum death benefit payment. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through the IVPP were likely an attractive feature to Mr B. But whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr B about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think JLT explored to what extent Mr B 
was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits. 
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed given 
that, at the point of the advice, Mr B was hopeful he and Mrs B would be reconciled. So I 
think that the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to Mr Bs 
spouse if he predeceased her and whilst they remained married. I dont think JLT made the 
value of this benefit clear enough to Mr B. 
Furthermore, if Mr B genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for Mrs B, which didnt depend on 
how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think JLT shouldve instead explored 
life insurance. 
I acknowledge that Mr B appears to have had concerns about his life expectancy. But Mr B 
not reaching his life expectancy was only a possibility and it was also possible that he would 
exceed this. By transferring out of the DB scheme Mr B was relying on some of the IVPPs 
value protection amount remaining on his death in order to provide the death benefits, 
whereas the spouses pension in the DB scheme was guaranteed and escalated. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to the IVPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. Nor do I think that JLT should have 
encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through the IVPP over 
his security in retirement. Summary
I dont doubt that the attractiveness of obtaining more TFC at age 60 than offered by his DB 
scheme along with the opportunity to have an additional income would have sounded like 
attractive features to Mr B. But JLT wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr B needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr B should not to have been advised to transfer out of 
his DB scheme just to have the flexibility to access a TFC lump sum for which he had no 
genuine need at that point in time. Nor can I see that accessing TFC and an income he 
didnt yet need was worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme for.
So, I think JLT shouldve advised Mr B to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against JLTs 
advice. JLT argues that this is the case, saying that even after explaining the options to Mr B 
it was clear that he fundamentally wanted to access the TFC element of his pension and 
would have sought to do so even had he been advised not to transfer. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against JLTs advice. I say this because Mr B was an 
inexperienced investor with zero attitude to risk who had, in 2011 accepted JLTs advice that 
transferring his DB scheme benefits wasnt in his best interests. In addition Mr Bs DB 
scheme accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if JLT had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme (just as it had done in 2011), 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Bs concerns about obtaining TFC so he had access to capital for 
which he had no genuine need were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer 
knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was 
suitable for him or in his best interests. If JLT had explained that Mr B could meet his 
objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. So, I dont think Mr B would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think JLT should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. For clarity, Mr B has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on a retirement age of as this was Mr Bs intention at the 
time of the advice and, had he not transferred, this was the age he would have retired.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, JLT should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts JLTs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, JLT may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman