DRN-4234322
The complaint
Miss S complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (AIL) and the service she 
received after she made a claim on her Breakdown Cover insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by a separate insurer. Included within this 
policy was separate breakdown cover, underwritten by AIL.
Unfortunately, on 4 April 2023, Miss S tyre was damaged while travelling. So, she parked 
her car in a local restaurant car park and contacted AIL to make a claim on her breakdown 
cover.
AIL accepted Miss S claim, and they arranged for a local recovery agent, who Ill refer to as 
X, to attend. X attempted to inflate Miss S tyre but this was unsuccessful due to the extent 
of the damage. So, X says they offered Miss S the option of being recovered to a garage for 
a new tyre to be fitted. And, X says Miss S declined this option and chose to make her own 
arrangements. So, Miss S and her car were left on the restaurant car park.
Miss S uncle then called AIL on her behalf to query this. AIL confirmed the details above but 
offered to send a second agent if Miss S had misunderstood and would like to be recovered 
to a local garage for a new tyre to be fitted. Miss S didnt call AIL to accept this offer and so, 
no further action was taken. But Miss S was unhappy with the service she received, so she 
raised a complaint.
Miss S was unhappy with the service she received from X and AIL. Miss S explained X had 
turned up to her later than she was told. And, that X left her stranded without a fixed tyre or 
recovery to a safe place when she was a significant distance from home. Miss S disputed 
Xs version of events, saying she wasnt offered the chance to pay for a replacement tyre. 
So, she wanted to be compensated for the upset and inconvenience she was caused.
AIL responded to the complaint and upheld it. They accepted there was a 46-minute delay in 
X attending and so, paid Miss S £10 to recognise this and any upset this caused. But AIL 
were satisfied from the evidence they had available to them that X had followed the process 
theyd expect and that it was Miss S own decision to make her own arrangements. So, they 
didnt think they needed to offer anything more. Miss S remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained they were 
unable to say for certain what happened when X attended Miss S car. But they were 
satisfied AIL did offer to arrange for another attendance and recovery to a garage, should 
Miss S require this. And as Miss S didnt call AIL back to confirm this, they didnt think they 
could say AIL shouldve done something more. So, they thought the £10 paid for the minor 
was a fair one, and they didnt think AIL needed to do anything more on this occasion.
Miss S didnt agree. She felt the screenshots of text messages sent to her uncle supporting 
her version of her events. And she maintained that it was unreasonable for X to leave her 
stranded in a restaurant car park so far from home, considering her own personal situation. 
So, Miss S maintained her belief that AIL should compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience she was caused. As Miss S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss S. I recognise Miss S 
was some distance from home when her tyre deflated. And I can understand the worry and 
upset this wouldve caused. I can also appreciate Miss S paid an additional premium for the 
breakdown cover provided by AIL to help assist her in situations such as the one she found 
herself in. So, when AIL didnt provide Miss S with the support she was expecting, I can 
understand why Miss S would feel unfairly treated and want to be compensated for this.
But for me to say AIL should offer something more than the payment theyve already made, I 
first need to be satisfied they have done something wrong that hasnt been adequately 
compensated for. So, Id need to be satisfied AIL failed to act within the terms and conditions 
of the policy Miss S held. Or, if I think they did act within these, that AIL acted unfairly in 
some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
I think its important to note that, while X are a separate company to AIL, X were acting as an 
agent of AIL, on AILs behalf. So, AIL are ultimately responsible for the actions of X in this 
claim.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
what Ive been able to consider, and how. In this situation, X and Miss S have differing 
versions of event on what was discussed when X attended Miss S car on 5 April 2023. And 
as I wasnt present at the time, Im unable to say for certain exactly what did happen.
Ive seen AILs system notes, which show X reported to them that Miss S had turned down 
the option of being recovered to a local garage for a new tyre to be fitted. And Ive listened to 
a call between AIL and X, where X confirm the same. 
Whereas Ive listened to a call between Miss S uncle and AIL, where her uncle states this 
option wasnt provided. And Miss S testimony supports this, alongside messages shes sent 
which she feels shows she decided to make her own arrangements after X refused to assist 
her appropriately.
Based on the above, I think its clear there was a misunderstanding between Miss S and X. 
But as I wasnt present at the time of the conversation between X and Miss S, I cant say for 
certain whose fault it was for this misunderstanding. But what I can be certain of is, that 
when AIL were made aware of this misunderstanding by Miss S uncle after X had attended, 
they offered to send another recovery agent to Miss S to ensure she was recovered to a 
local garage for a replacement tyre to be fitted. And, that Miss S or her uncle didnt call back 
to utilise this option and instead made their own arrangements.
I can see within the terms and conditions of the cover Miss S held it states that where an agent such as X is unable to repair the car at the roadside that they will either recover you, 
the vehicle and your passengers to our choice of local garage which is able to undertake the 
repair. Or, if the vehicle couldnt be repaired roadside or at a local garage within the same 
working day we will recover you, the vehicle and your passengers to your chosen 
destination.
In this situation, its accepted the car couldnt be repaired at the roadside. So, I think the 
terms make it clear that at this point, the next option was to recover Miss S car to a garage 
for the tyre to be repaired. In this case, the tyre needed to be replaced.
I think the terms also make it reasonably clear that recovery of Miss S, and her car, to her 
home address would only be considered if the car couldnt be repaired on the same working 
day. But considering Miss S breakdown occurred early morning on a working day, and that 
AIL confirmed to her uncle on the phone that the replacement tyre was available at garages 
in the local area, I think the tyre was most likely able to be replaced that day and so, I dont 
think Miss S was, or wouldve been, eligible for recovery to her home address.
So, while I appreciate there may have been a misunderstanding between Miss S and X at 
the initial attendance, I do think AIL made it reasonably clear to Miss S through her uncle 
that her car could be recovered to a garage, in line with the terms of the policy. And as Miss 
S didnt utilise this option, I dont think Im able to say AIL acted unfairly by not providing any 
further assistance. Nor do I think it would be fair for me to hold AIL responsible for any 
inconvenience Miss S encountered arranging for her own recovery and repair.
I note AIL have already accepted X initially attended later than intended and that this caused 
a delay of around 46 minutes which I feel is a minor delay. AIL paid Miss S £10 to recognise 
this delay, and the lost time. And I think this offer is a fair one which fairly takes into 
consideration the impact the minor delay had, while also recognising Miss S was parked in a 
safe place with access to food and toilet facilities. So, I dont think AIL need to do anything 
more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss S complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman