DRN-3587070
The complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco Bank) 
irresponsibly granted him a credit card he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2018 Mr H entered into an agreement with Tesco Bank to have access to credit 
by way of a credit card account. He was given an opening credit limit of £2,550. 
Mr H says that Tesco Bank didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his 
credit card account. He says he was already struggling financially at the time.
Tesco Bank didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment to check Mr Hs financial circumstances before granting him the credit card 
account and each of the credit limit increases. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Tesco Bank acted 
unfairly in approving the opening of the account.
As Tesco Bank didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the account, Tesco Bank looked into Mr Hs financial situation. This included 
looking at the information about his personal situation included in the application he 
provided, showing he was homeowner who was working full time and had one dependent. 
The searches found that Mr H was generally managing his other credit accounts well, with 
no arrears, defaults or history of missed payments on his existing borrowing. Tesco Bank 
assessed Mr Hs regular outgoings using average costs data. It then set an opening credit 
limit based on these factors. It recorded his annual income as £19,500 with a monthly 
income of £1,500. It also recorded a total indebtedness of around £106,000 of which 
£84,000 was a mortgage, around £14,500 was unsecured loans and another £6,800 was 
revolving credit. However, based on the data it used for assessing applications like this, 
Tesco Bank estimated monthly debt and committed expenditure of £1,500  taking into 
account his mortgage, loans and other debts and living expenses. Tesco Bank also allowed 
the figure of £63 for repayments to his new card which it now confirms was an error and that 
on the figures it used Mr H was in fact left with no disposable income. 
Given what Mr H has told us about his personal circumstances at the time, I agree with our 
adjudicator that in setting the opening credit limit Tesco Bank failed to take into account that 
the data they relied on of £1,500 of income each month was unlikely to have left Mr H with 
any disposable income. 
Tesco Bank responded to our adjudicators view by saying the figures it used in assessing 
Mr Hs application vastly overestimated Mr Hs financial situation. It said those figures were 
much more than either the actual figures Mr H had given in his application as well as the 
available credit reference bureau data it had gathered. Tesco Bank said that relying on those 
figures would have left Mr H with enough disposable income to afford the card  a figure of 
around £550. 
I dont agree. As Ive said, the application data shows that at the time Mr H had mortgage 
debt of around £84,000, owed a total of around £14,500 in loan debt and also around £6,800 
in revolving credit. So the total credit reference figure for these debts of £290 is clearly far 
too low and doesnt reflect the true level of financial commitment Mr H was having to deal 
with each month. Having seen Mr Hs bank statements for the three months leading up to his 
application for the card, I can see Mr H was making a monthly mortgage payment of around 
£375, a loan repayment of £270 and regular existing card repayments of around £200-250 
per month. Taking this into account alongside Mr Hs regular living costs and expenses 
demonstrates that he likely didnt have enough disposable income to be able to manage the 
new card alongside his existing financial commitments. 
I therefore still consider it would have been proportionate for Tesco Bank to have got a more 
thorough understanding of Mr Hs financial circumstances before giving him the credit, based 
on the indications given by the credit data it was using at the time. So I agree with our 
adjudicator that the checks that Tesco Bank carried out at the time show that the opening 
credit limit was unlikely to have been affordable. 
It follows that I dont think Tesco Bank should have granted Mr H this account. 
Putting things right  what Tesco Bank needs to do
As I dont think Tesco Bank ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr H 
should pay back the amounts they have borrowed. Therefore, Tesco Bank should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr H along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Tesco Bank should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from r Hs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco Bank should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr H for the remaining amount. Once 
Mr H has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account 
should be removed from their credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman