DRN-1545864
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage in 1992 with Nationwide Building Society and were sold a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy at the same time. They say they were 
mis-sold this type of cover because it was never discussed.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs W its unlikely 
to be upheld. They disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
The central point of complaint here is that no consent was ever given to add the PPI and Mr 
and Mrs W were completely unaware the policy existed with their mortgage. However, 
these events are from some 28 years ago now and the PPI was closed many years ago 
too, in 1997. Its therefore no surprise we no longer have the physical records showing that 
Mr and Mrs W agreed to buy this PPI as businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely. Im also mindful that recollections of events can be difficult after so long.
However, given the many cases weve seen like this one, I can use my knowledge and 
experience to assess what is more likely to have happened. The first issue for me is that 
the policy was free for the first 12 months with the mortgage product Mr and Mrs W chose. I 
think this issue would have been discussed and I find it very unlikely that Nationwide would 
have missed the opportunity to offer such a product, free of charge, without telling the 
consumers.
A related, but more substantive point, is that we know PPI was definitely added; theres no 
dispute about that. Its therefore highly likely that Mr and Mrs W would have been sent the 
policy details by the insurers. This would have included the policy schedule and information 
about what was covered. Ive seen examples, from the early 1990s, where the insurers 
sent through this type of information to consumers who had bought this type of PPI cover. It 
contained the names of those insured and the cost. 
Im also familiar with the free offer Nationwide used around this time. Although we dont 
have the actual paperwork for this case, Ive seen quite a few examples where Nationwide 
wrote to consumers at the end of the free 12-month period to remind them that the charges 
would start to occur for the PPI policy. 
I accept this is all a long time ago now. But I need to make a decision of what is more likely 
to have happened. And given my experience of these particular sales at this particular time, 
I think Nationwide would have obtained the necessary consent. I also think Mr and Mrs W 
would have been sent quite a lot of paperwork about the PPI they took out, thus being 
aware they had a PPI policy set up with their mortgage, as described above.
Obviously I cant say after such a long time that Mr and Mrs W were told everything they 
ought to have been told. But Mr W was the only one covered by this policy and appears to 
have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we 
sometimes see in these policies. The price seems to me to be comparable with similar 
policies from around that time period and Ive seen nothing that suggests it wasnt 
affordable for them. 
Mr and Mrs W said they didnt need the cover because they had sickness protection 
already with his job. I dont know why they opted for the PPI, but their mortgage was a long-
term and important commitment, secured against their home and so the consequences of 
not being able to keep up the mortgage payments could have been serious. In the event of 
a successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 24 months. This would have been in 
addition to  and much longer than - any other means Mr W already had in place at the 
time. 
Overall, I think that Mr and Mrs W probably engaged in the discussions about this sale and I 
think what they bought was of use to them. Im very sorry to have to disappoint them, but 
Ive got nothing with which to uphold their complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. And I dont direct Nationwide Building Society to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman