DRN-1420092
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with the amount AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited have offered 
him for his car when he claimed on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr B had an accident and his car was declared a total loss.
AA said the market value of his vehicle was £5,500 so offered this to Mr B. He said this 
didnt take into account the optional extras he had on his car  and after this was taken into 
account AA offered £5,649. They also said this was their final offer.
Mr C though didnt feel this was enough as he couldnt buy a similar car for that amount of 
money  so he asked us to look into things.
One of our investigators did so and explained we use different trade industry guides to check 
whether the value offered by the AA is fair  and having done his own checks he felt it was 
fair.
Mr C strongly disagrees with this. He argued he couldnt find another car for the same price, 
asked us to prove the value, and said we were allowing the AA to act fraudulently.
Because of this the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B feels very strongly that his car is worth more than what hes being offered for it at the 
moment  and has provided a number of different adverts demonstrating higher prices.
Mr Bs policy will pay the market value of his car at the time its deemed a total loss. Itll help 
to explain that its very difficult to value second hand cars and it isnt the role of our service to 
value Mr Bs car. But our general approach is that we look to assess whether the insurers 
offer is reasonable. 
To do this, we get valuations from motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second 
hand cars. But well also take into account the evidence provided by both parties. This might 
include engineers reports, information from dealers and, in some cases, advertisements for 
similar cars. 
We think trade guides are generally more reliable, mainly because their valuations are based 
on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional 
variations. We dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially 
asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as 
they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices  and therefore provide us with a fair 
market value for the type of car being assessed.
The majority of the evidence Mr B has provided to demonstrate why the value of his car 
should be higher is due to adverts. Ive thought about those, but I dont find them as 
persuasive as the motor trade guides. I say this because in several of the adverts the 
mileage is considerably lower  which will make a difference on the price. And in other 
adverts the car appears to be of a higher specification.
Mr B has also provided one of the motor trade guides AA have used, and its come up with a 
figure of over £6,750. But I cant see all the options selected to get this figure  so its difficult 
for me to assess this fully. 
I can however see the options AA selected which include the optional extras Mr B had on his 
car. Ive also had a look and got values for his car including the optional extras. Having 
looked at these, I can see AAs offer is in line with those guides. Because of this, I cant say 
theyve acted unreasonably in making this offer.
Ive noted Mr B believes AA are acting fraudulently as he believes theyre not paying the 
market value for the car. But as Ive explained above valuing second hand cars isnt an exact 
science. And, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied theyve offered a fair market 
value for the car in line with the trade guide valuations.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman