DRN-3899197
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as D, has complained about the way AXIS Specialty Europe SE dealt 
with its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr B, as a director of D, has brought the complaint on Ds behalf. 
For ease of reading, any reference to AXIS will also include their agents. 
What happened
D, a hair salon, held a business interruption insurance policy with AXIS. It claimed on its 
policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19. D made two claims for different periods 
during which it was required to close (lockdown 1 and lockdown 2 respectively). 
AXISs loss adjuster said they would consider Ds claims under the denial of access 
extension of the policy. The claims were settled but D was unhappy with the amount paid, in 
particular in relation to savings AXIS said it had made by not paying its employees during the 
lockdown periods.  Ds employees were furloughed under the Government Coronavirus Job 
Retention Scheme, which paid 80% of their normal wages from March 2020, when D was 
unable to trade. However, D wants AXIS to pay it the remaining 20% of the staff wages 
during both lockdown periods. 
AXIS said that in the first lockdown period, D must have varied its staff contracts, as it did 
not pay the 20% top up of their wages. AXIS said that in the second lockdown, D could have 
done the same thing, thereby mitigating its losses as required by the policy. As it failed to 
mitigate its losses and chose to make a voluntary payment to its staff, it was not covered 
under the policy. 
D does not accept that this is fair. D says it was required to pay full pay for bank holidays (of 
which there were four in lockdown 1) and annual leave; and it is standard for an insurer to 
cover full pay for other reasons of denial of access, such as fire or flood. 
One of our Investigators looked into Ds complaint and recommended that AXIS should 
reconsider any costs actually incurred by D in covering staff wages that were not paid by the 
Government scheme, together with interest.
AXIS accepted the Investigators assessment and reviewed the claims. Having done so, 
AXIS made a further offer of settlement to D in respect of lockdown 2, which has been 
accepted. In regard to lockdown 1, AXIS says that any payment of the 20% that D made to 
staff on leave has already or will be included but as D had not actually paid the 20% top up 
to its staff for this lockdown period there is nothing further for it to pay for the claim for 
lockdown 1. 
D doesnt accept this is fair. D says that during lockdown 1, it paid one employee his full 
wages but it could not pay its other employees the remaining 20% of their usual wages but 
told them that it would do so once it had received the insurance settlement. As it has not yet 
been received, D told its employees that it would give them pay rises as profits allowed, 
once they were able to start working again. This has been done for two employees and two 
others were made redundant before they could do so, as one of its sites had to close 
permanently. D says AXIS should add these amounts to the settlement. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ds policy provides cover for loss of gross revenue less any sum saved during the indemnity 
period in respect of any charges and expenses of the business payable out of gross profit 
which cease or diminish in consequence of the damage. 
AXIS has confirmed that it has included any payments of the 20% D did make for staff on 
leave during lockdown 1, and I have not seen any evidence that there were any staff wages 
payments made by D that have not been covered for this period. 
D says it was still contractually liable to pay its staffs full wages during lockdown 1, so even 
though it did not make this payment, it should be paid as part of the claim settlement by 
AXIS. D might have been contractually liable to pay its staff the 20% top-up at the time the 
salary fell due to be paid. And even though that has not been paid, I think if there is a liability 
that arose during the relevant indemnity period, then it is covered under the policy. 
AXIS suggests there must have been a variation in contract, given that D paid the top-up in 
the second lockdown and did not pay it in the first. D says it didnt formally vary any 
employee contracts, as it didnt realise it needed to and everything was developing very 
quickly. D says it told the staff in a meeting in March 2020 that it could not afford to pay the 
top-up (other than for one employee) but would do so, if it received the money from AXIS.
I think it is arguable that this constituted a variation in the contract between D and its 
employees, in that they (presumably) agreed to defer payment of the 20% until it was 
recovered from AXIS. I do not know if there was an agreement to accept non-payment of the 
amount entirely. I have no reason to doubt that D would pay this amount to the staff if its 
claim for the 20% had been successful. 
There were four staff affected. Two of them received 80% of pay until they were made 
redundant, one in May 2021 and one in November 2021 Ive not seen any evidence that they 
were paid any top-up of the furlough payments (in relation to lockdown 1) at any point before 
they were made redundant. And Ive not seen any evidence of any attempt made by them to 
enforce payment of the 20% of their wages they were not paid in lockdown 1. 
D says it hopes to re-employ these two staff members and D says if it succeeds in this claim, 
it would pay these two staff members the 20% owed for lockdown 1. However, as this has 
not happened, I do not think there is a liability to these employees, who by now are unlikely 
to have the right to claim for non-payment of wages, as the usual deadline for claiming for 
unpaid wages is three months from the date they should have been paid.
It seems likely to me that the remaining two employees would also now be precluded from 
making any claim for unpaid wages, due to the time elapsed. But D says that it fulfilled its 
commitment to paying these two staff members pay rises to compensate for not being able 
to pay the 20% top-up by way of salary increases. D has said that in March 2020 the two employees were paid £2,083pm and £2,000pm each 
respectively and this was increased for both of them to £2,166pm in May 2021, £2,285pm in 
October 2021 and £2,375pm in July 2022. D has confirmed these were permanent wage 
increases, rather than one off payments.  The total amount of the wages saved for   
lockdown 1 was £3,850, across the four employees (so an average of £962.50 was owed to 
each employee). It is difficult to see a correlation between this amount and the pay rises 
given.
The Investigator asked D for any evidence of an agreement reached with these employees 
that the pay rises were payment for the top-up in relation to lockdown 1 but nothing has been 
provided. D might have had the intention of paying the top-up to its staff, once received from 
AXIS. However, AXIS only has to indemnify losses arising during the period of indemnity. D 
has to have incurred the loss, for it to be payable under the policy. As stated, I do not think it 
likely that any liability to pay the top-up still exists (even if it did during the lockdown period)  
and having considered everything, I do not think it would be fair to make AXIS reimburse D 
for providing its staff with increased pay over a year after the insured event.
The staff wages (both the part covered by the furlough payment and the 20%) were 
therefore a business expense that ceased and/or diminished during the first claim period. 
Having considered everything, I am not persuaded that it would be fair for D to be paid the 
20% top-up for these employees.  
  
D has also referred to other possible claims, for example if it were unable to trade due to fire 
or flood of the premises, which it says would result in payment of 100% of staff wages. The 
policy covers losses as a result of specified events which might lead to interruption of the 
business. If a business still had to pay wages during a period it is closed following such an 
event then this would be covered, as it has been here. But the fact is the Government paid 
80% of the staff wages and D did not pay the remainder.  I do not therefore consider AXIS 
needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman