DRN-3033767
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that First Merchant Processing (Ireland) 
Limited trading as AIB Merchant Services (AIBMS) acted unreasonably in relation to a card 
payment dispute. P says AIBMS failed to provide basic guidance and gave conflicting and 
misleading information. One of the directors of P brings the complaint on Ps behalf. 
What happened
P is a retail business that accepts payment by card. In July 2020, one of Ps customers 
contacted their card provider to ask for the return of a payment for £311.25 made to P. 
The card provider instigated a procedure known as a chargeback. This meant that the card 
provider got in touch with AIBMS, who reclaimed the money from P and returned it to the 
card holder while the chargeback was investigated. AIBMS told P it could appeal against the 
chargeback by submitting evidence showing it had the right to the payment. 
After speaking to AIBMS, P appealed. In August 2020, AIBMS informed P that its defence 
had been successful. 
Shortly afterwards, AIBMS notified P that the cardholder was still disputing the transaction. 
After several more conversations with AIBMS, P submitted some more evidence in its 
defence.
The dispute went to the card schemes arbitration process, which in October, ruled in favour 
of the cardholder. 
While this was in progress, P complained to AIBMS about their handling of the dispute. P 
said it had acted in line with its terms and conditions and the rules of its regulatory body. It 
also said that AIBMS hadnt given it any support and had been misleading, for example, 
telling P that there was a Euro500 fee to defend the case. 
AIBMS accepted that their service was below the standard they should have provided and 
that they had given incorrect information. They offered P half the amount of the payment, 
£155.62, as an apology.  
P didnt accept this offer and referred its complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into things. He explained that we couldnt look at the outcome of the chargeback 
dispute itself, but he could look at the actions of AIBMS. Having done that, he concluded that 
AIBMS offer was fair. 
P asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. So Im not going to 
ask AIBMS to do anything more than they have already offered. Ill explain why below.
As our investigator explained, I cant intervene in the outcome of Ps dispute with the 
cardholder. This decision was made at arbitration by the card scheme and I have no powers 
to look at it. So Im not going to make any findings on whether the chargeback should have 
been successful or not. What I will do is look at the actions of AIBMS. 
Ive looked at the timeline of events and I dont consider that AIBMS did anything wrong in 
the way they processed the chargeback. They informed P promptly on both occasions and 
they put the case to arbitration when both sides couldnt agree. I think this was the correct 
process and in line with their chargeback dispute handbook. 
However, its not in dispute that AIBMS made some errors. They have accepted that their 
level of service wasnt acceptable. In particular, at the point when the cardholder requested 
the chargeback for a second time, P says that AIBMS tried to dissuade it from appealing and 
told P it would have to pay a EUR500 fee. 
Im satisfied that AIBMS did give incorrect information at this point, as there is an email 
saying that there is a EUR500 penalty that you would have to take as we have lost similar 
cases at filling [sic] and we are unable to add more document at the pre-arbitration stage. I 
consider this very poor service, which could potentially have had significant implications. 
However, I note that P didnt pay the fee and the case did still go to arbitration. 
AIBMS has given several conflicting accounts as to whether P was able to provide additional 
evidence before arbitration. From the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that 
Ps additional evidence was all put forward, but didnt make any difference to the outcome. 
My conclusion is therefore that this poor service, although frustrating for Ps director, didnt 
have any impact on the card schemes decision.  
I know that P would like to see AIBMS held to account for its failings here. It is concerned 
that AIBMS will continue to act in the same manner going forward. I understand this, but we 
are not the regulator and cannot require AIBMS to change their procedures. 
Putting things right
P made several long phone calls and sent a number of emails to AIBMS in the course of this 
complaint. Some of these would have been unnecessary if AIBMSs service had been better. 
AIBMS has offered £155.62 to P as an apology and Ive concluded that this is fair. 
I realise that this will be disappointing to Ps director. But I think that what he is really 
unhappy about is the fact that the £311 payment was charged back. He feels strongly that 
he complied with his terms and conditions and the rules of his licensing body, so this 
shouldnt have happened. I understand his strength of feeling, particularly given the difficult 
time that businesses like his have been through during the pandemic. 
As Ive explained, I can only look at the actions of AIBMS. And in the circumstances here, I 
dont think that AIBMS errors ultimately made any difference to the failure of his appeal. So I 
think the only impact was some inconvenience, for which I think £155.62 is fair. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct First Merchant Processing (Ireland) Limited  trading as AIB Merchant Services to pay P the £155.62 already offered.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8th October 2021.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman