DRN-4276961
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lendable Ltd trading as Zable did not refund a transaction for £9.10 he 
says he did not make. 
What happened
Mr O noticed a payment for £9.10 on his Zable account that was processed on 22 December 
2022. He recognised the merchant though he had not visited them for many months, and 
had not been to the location listed on the transaction on his statement. Because of this, he 
did not think he could have carried out the transaction. Zable responded to his disputed 
transaction claim and confirmed the payment had been made using an e-wallet in which    
Mr Os card had been saved, and the same e-wallet had been used for genuine transactions. 
Because of this, they did not agree the transaction was fraudulent.
Mr O disagreed and referred the complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it and 
explained that, based on the evidence available, it was more likely Mr O himself made or 
otherwise authorised the transaction. Mr O reiterated that he had not been to the location 
listed on the statements so could not have carried it out himself.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons and I dont direct 
Zable to refund the £9.10. Ill explain why in more detail.
Generally speaking, Zable is able to hold Mr O liable for the disputed transaction if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made or otherwise authorised it himself. 
This position is confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs).
From what Ive seen, the payment was made using an e-wallet linked to Mr Os mobile 
phone device.  While this is important, it isnt enough on its own to say Mr O is liable for the 
transactions. Zable also has to show its more likely than not that Mr O himself made or 
otherwise authorised the transactions.
Zable has shown that the same e-wallet linked to Mr Os mobile phone device was used to 
make genuine transactions just a week prior to the disputed transaction, which was possible 
because Mr Os Zable credit card had been saved in the e-wallet. Mr O also confirmed that 
he had possession of his phone and his credit card at all times, his mobile phone was 
secured with biometrics and a passcode, so it could not be easily accessed, and he did not 
lose this at any time. With this in mind, it is difficult to see how his phone with the e-wallet 
could have been compromised by a third-party. So I think it is more likely he carried out the 
transaction himself, via the e-wallet.
In addition, Mr O says that he does recognise the merchant, but he had not visited the 
location listed on his statements. I do appreciate what Mr O has said, but from what Ive 
seen, a merchant may list a location on a transaction but this does not necessarily mean the 
payment occurred there. It can be that, for example, the transaction lists where the head 
office of the merchant is. In any event, as Mr O does recognise the name of the merchant, 
as well as the fact it is more likely he authorised the transaction using his device which no-
one else had access to, I do think it is more likely he carried out the transaction himself.
Finally, I would like to add that, generally speaking, when a fraudster gains access to 
someones account via a payment device, they will spend as much as possible in as short a 
period as possible. However, in this case, only £9.10 was spent, so this does not generally 
match the pattern of a known fraud. 
Having carefully considered everything available to me, for the reasons set out above, I think 
it was reasonable for Zable to hold Mr O liable for the transaction. So I do not direct them to 
refund the £9.10. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Os complaint against Lendable Ltd trading as Zable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman