DRN-4045474
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund transactions it didnt make. 
Ms M, who is a director of S, brings the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened
Ms M was contacted by someone pretending to be from Cashplus, who convinced 
her to share some of Ss personalised security details. As a result, fraudsters were 
able to make two payments from Ss account for £3,190.54. 
Cashplus declined to refund these, so Ms M brought her complaint to our service to 
investigate. 
On 21 March 2023, I sent a provisional decision upholding Ss complaint. I wasnt 
persuaded Ms M failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account 
and to keep Ss personalised security details safe. So, in line with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, I considered Cashplus liable to refund S. 
Ms M accepted my provisional findings. Cashplus disagreed and sent several call 
recordings it had between its staff and Ms M. In summary, it said: 
oMs M provided several security details, despite the media coverage and 
education not to share information like this. 
oWhen Ms M was scammed before, Cashplus didnt ask for security details to 
refund the payments  so this shouldve raised alarm bells. 
oAt no point did Ms M question the caller, so it maintains she failed with gross 
negligence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Cashpluss response carefully, Ive not changed my mind about the 
outcome to Ss complaint. Ill address what I think are the salient points: 
I accept Cashplus and others have information available about how to avoid scams 
and what information it wouldnt ask for. But I dont think that means that everyone 
that does share security details has failed with gross negligence. 
Instead, its necessary to consider gross negligence in all the circumstances of the 
scam. And its clear that this scam, like many others, was cleverly crafted  as 
Cashpluss own staff acknowledged in their calls with Ms M. For example, they 
already had information about Ms M, they used familiar security questions and hold 
music, as well as baffling Ms M with fake jargon  like fake crime references numbers 
and employee numbers. 
Most importantly  and clearly the key reason for Ms Ms trust  was that the call 
appeared to come from Cashpluss number. I note from her previous calls with 
Cashplus that she wasnt told about this possibility.
I recognise that when fraudulent transactions happened before and Cashplus 
genuinely called Ms M, they didnt ask for security details. But like I said in my 
provisional findings, I can understand how she wouldnt have remembered everything 
about this call  it happened around a month before. However, I can see how the 
overall context of the call  that shed been scammed before and someone was 
trying to do the same thing again  made the call seem plausible to her. 
This isnt to say that Ms M acted perfectly reasonably. But, taking all the 
circumstances into account, Im not persuaded she fell so far below what a 
reasonable wouldve done to conclude she failed with gross negligence. 
So, Ive not departed from my provisional findings. For completeness, Ive included my 
reasoning again below.  
Cashplus accepted these were unauthorised transactions. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), it refused to refund them because it 
asserts Ms M failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account 
and keep her personalised security details safe.
Our investigator considered these payments to concern distance contracts, so in line 
with the PSRs, they didnt think gross negligence was a relevant consideration. But 
as this concerns a company, the provisions related to distance contracts dont apply 
 theyre only for consumers.
So I have considered whether Ms M failed with gross negligence  or, in other words, 
whether she acted with very significant carelessness; seriously disregarded an 
obvious risk; or acted so far below what a reasonable person wouldve done.
Ms M explained she received the call from Cashpluss number. She had recently 
received a call from someone claiming to be from Cashplus, but she didnt share 
information because the number didnt come up correctly. So when it did, she trusted 
the caller was from her bank. I can see why Ms M made that connection  after all, 
most people dont realise how fraudsters can spoof genuine numbers.
She recalled being told that shed been scammed again  and that to refund the 
payments, theyd need her to confirm her card details and to share two one-time 
passcodes theyd send to her phone. Theyd then send her a new card.
Around a month before, Ms M had been scammed where the payments were 
refunded and shed a new card issued. While I accept they wouldnt have asked for 
information before, I think its understandable she didnt recall the exact process. And 
overall, I can see why the general context of the call seemed plausible and familiar to 
her, and why she ultimately trusted this was Cashplus and shared the information.In saying this, I accept the messages with the onetime passcodes had details of the 
payments. But from my experience of complaints involving Cashplus, I understand 
the messages often refer to verifying a payment  and dont always include a 
warning. Either way, in the heat of the moment, when Ms M trusted her bank and had 
been primed to expect the messages to refund the transactions, I can see how this 
didnt ring alarm bells. I dont think it meant she seriously disregarded an obvious risk 
when she shared them.
It follows that I dont think Cashplus has shown Ms M failed with gross negligence. 
So I conclude that S isnt liable for the transactions and Cashplus needs to put things 
right  by refunding Ss losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside 
interest to compensate it for the time its been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ss complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) must:
Pay S the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman