DRN-3299723
The complaint
Miss R complains that her cash withdrawal from HSBC UK Bank Plc was £1,000 short. 
What happened
Miss R has a business account and personal account with HSBC.
In June 2019, Miss R went into a HSBC branch with her sister to withdraw £10,000 over the 
counter. She wrote two cheques to take out £5,000 from each of her accounts. Miss R says 
she was handed two plastic bags with money in it by the cashier. She says she took both 
bags home and then took out one of the bags to spend over the next few weeks.
 
Miss R says she left the other bag of money in a handbag, untouched and behind a locked 
door. Miss R says only she had access to the untouched bag. Miss R says she opened the 
untouched bag on 8 July 2019 and discovered that it only contained £4,000  so it was 
£1,000 short.
 
Miss R says she doesnt remember asking the cashier to count out the money that she 
withdrew, which she said was unusual for her as she normally checks cash. So, she asked 
HSBC to look at the CCTV and provide her with a copy of the recording. HSBC staff told 
Miss R that they had viewed the footage and it showed the money being weighed out 
correctly in front of Miss R. HSBC gave Miss R a copy of the footage to take home.
 
Miss R told staff shed need some time to get organised so that she could view the 
recording. And said if it did confirm the correct amount was given to her, then she suspected 
that it could only have been her sister who could have taken it, as her sister was left alone 
with the handbag containing the money before Miss R locked it away in her home.
Miss R watched the CCTV but due to security pixels being applied wasnt able to see clearly 
what was happening on the footage. Miss R says the recording showed one bundle of notes 
being weighed. But the other bundle was obscured by pixels, so she says there is no 
evidence of the second bundle (which was short) being counted or weighed. And she thinks 
HSBC are covering up a mistake.
 
HSBC investigated. It told Miss R that theyd been no discrepancies of the branch tills and 
safe. And the branch manager had looked at the unpixellated CCTV which had clearly 
shown the cashier had weighed two lots of £5,000 in front of Miss R. The cash was then 
sealed in bags and handed to Miss R.  As part of the investigation the branch manager also 
interviewed the cashier who served Miss R. She stated shed asked Miss R a number of 
questions around the withdrawal to comply with bank processes and had asked a colleague 
for £1,000 from their till to make up Miss Rs withdrawal. She said each of the bags handed 
to Miss R contained £5,000 and Miss R had put them into her handbag. So, no error was 
made.
Miss R was unhappy about this and contacted our service. She explained what had 
happened and that she hadnt checked the notes until some days later but suspects the 
cashier took the money. She wants the unpixellated footage viewed.
 
The investigator didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint. She said the CCTV wasnt available and 
that shed looked at the process HSBC had followed, and there was no extra cash over in 
the tills when they were checked. And the branch couldnt be held responsible for what might 
have happened after Miss R left the branch. So, she didnt think it was reasonable to ask 
HSBC to refund Miss R £1,000.
Miss R disagreed. She said the pixelated CCTV footage had shown the cashiers hand going 
into a drawer at the end of the transaction, which couldve been her missing £1,000. So, the 
staff are trying to cover up theft.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Miss R feels strongly about her complaint. And I recognise that she is upset 
and worried about the £1,000 which she believes is missing. Ive looked carefully at the 
evidence, including what Miss R has said about what she believes happened. Ive asked 
questions about the availability of the CCTV and reviewed the pixelated CCTV footage. 
HSBCs final response letter said that it had reviewed the CCTV footage and it showed 
Miss R was given the correct amount of money after it had been weighed out in front of her 
in £1,000 batches. Miss R disputes this so I can understand why she wants to see the 
unpixellated CCTV footage. HSBC has sent a copy of this to our service.
The investigator has explained to Miss R why we havent been able to see the unpixellated 
CCTV here. I can appreciate this will be frustrating for Miss R, but CCTV footage rarely 
shows enough detail to be able to determine conclusively what happened. HSBC have said 
it has reviewed the footage and that it clearly showed Miss R was given £10,000 in two 
£5,000 batches. And that she put them in her handbag. So, it wouldve been helpful to have 
had this.
However, I still have to reach a decision, based on the evidence I do have. Its never easy to 
do when there is a direct conflict of evidence between the parties . So, Ive based my 
decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
HSBC has provided evidence that showed there was no cash left over in the cashiers till 
and it has said that the whole branch balanced that day. Of course, if the cashier took the 
money, as Miss R is alleging, instead of putting it in the bag and handing it to Miss R, the till 
and branch would still balance at the end of the day. So, the only two options are that Miss R 
did receive £10,000, or an employee took the missing £1,000.
The transaction took place at a lunchtime on a Wednesday, when I think its likely that the 
branch wouldve been busy. Miss R has also said that at the time she was distracted and 
doesnt remember noticing the cashier counting or weighing out the money in front of her 
before receiving the two bags of cash. At a busy time, there would have been a reasonable 
number of bank staff in the branch  from the CCTV footage I can see that theres at least 
one other cashier seated directly next to the cashier who served Miss R. So, I think its very 
unlikely that the cashier could have pocketed the £1,000 intended for Miss R. Especially as 
shed drawn attention to herself by asking the cashier seated next to her for cash to make up Miss Rs withdrawal request. She couldnt do so without being noticed, either by Miss R or 
her colleague, or even other customers. 
So, Im left with the only other option that Miss R did receive the £10,000. I think thats what 
the evidence suggests is most likely here. So, I wont be asking HSBC to refund Miss R. In 
saying this Ive also kept in mind that according to HSBCs notes, when Miss R visited the 
branch regarding the CCTV, she stated her sister had been alone with the handbag 
containing the money before she locked it away in her home. So, whilst I appreciate it would 
be unpleasant to suspect a family member of theft, I cant rule out that there is a possible 
third explanation for Miss Rs missing money. But I cant hold the bank responsible for what 
happened to Miss Rs money once she left the branch.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman