DRN-3632244
The complaint
Mr B and Miss G complain Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt offered a fair amount 
to settle their home insurance claim.
What happened
Mr B and Miss G made a claim for storm damage to their roof. They submitted several repair 
quotes, with the lowest being £5,460. The quotes were for replacing their roof, rather than a 
localised patch repair.
Admiral noted there had been 69mph winds, but it concluded the roof required replacing due 
to pre-existing damage. Nonetheless, Admiral accepted the storm force winds might have 
caused some damage, and it offered £1,300, less the £350 policy excess (i.e. £950). 
Mr B and Miss G were unhappy with the offer. Admiral went on to appoint a surveyor, who 
attended the property. The surveyor concluded the damage wasnt consistent with a storm 
and the claim should be declined in full. 
Admiral thought it should honour its £950 offer. Mr B and Miss G asked Admiral to complete 
a repair to the storm damaged areas instead. Admiral noted it would be difficult to complete 
a patch repair as there wasnt felt beneath the tiles. It was also concerned a patch repair 
wouldnt be long lasting given the pre-existing issues. Admiral offered half of the £5,460 
quote instead, less the £350 excess (i.e. £2,380). 
Admiral also paid Mr B and Miss G £1,023 for water damaged items, and £550 for internal 
decorations.
Mr B and Miss G complained about the settlement for the external repairs and some service 
issues. Admiral explained it considered its £2,380 offer to be fair, and it paid this amount to 
Mr B and Miss G. Admiral also paid them £200 compensation for the service issues. 
Mr B and Miss G remained unhappy, so they contacted our service. One of our investigators 
was persuaded the main cause of the damage was the storm, and he concluded Admiral 
was liable for the cost of completing an effective and lasting repair. He recommended 
Admiral pay the rest of Mr B and Miss Gs lowest quote, i.e. £2,730.
Because Admiral disagreed with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
I have re-assessed Mr B and Miss Gs complaint and all the evidence with these three 
questions in mind.
Its not disputed there were storm force winds on the day in question. Such high winds can 
also displace roof tiles. As such, Im satisfied the first two conditions have been met. 
However, Im not persuaded the storm was the main cause of the damage.
Admirals surveyors report explains:
-Theres no evidence of storm damage; nothing has lifted. The roof is in a poor 
condition and has reached the end of its serviceable life.
-On the rear elevation, whole rows of tiles have slipped where the nails and battens 
have corroded, leaving gaps between tiles up to 150mm.
The quotes provided by Mr B and Miss G explain:
-Wind has got undeath the ridge tiles, causing them to come loose, leaving the ridge 
tree exposed. 
-Tiles had lifted in an area near the eaves of the roof at the rear. This has caused tiles 
to slip. The current roof doesnt have any felt, leaving a hole. 
-Wind has caused the flashing to raise around the front dormer window, and water 
stains can be found directly underneath this issue. 
-The roof is beyond repair.
Its not clear how the surveyor knows the nails and battens have corroded. But I accept the 
conclusion is reasonable given the slipped tiles across the roof and its evident age-related 
deterioration. I also accept its unusual for a roof to need replacing in its entirety due to a 
storm. The roof needing to be replaced, rather than localised repairs, supports there are 
other issues here.
Furthermore, Ive reviewed on-line street-view images of the property, and its evident the 
roof was in a poor condition before the storm. The images, taken before the storm, show 
slipped tiles, loose ridge tiles, and lifted flashing.
I accept Mr B and Miss G didnt have water ingress before the storm. I also accept the storm 
has made the condition of their roof worse. But overall, Im persuaded the high winds simply 
highlighted existing issues that had built up over time. Such age-related wear and tear, and 
maintenance issues, arent covered by the policy.
Because Im not persuaded the storm was the main cause of the damage, I dont intend to 
direct Admiral to increase the settlement its paid. In my view, the offer to contribute to the 
roof repairs was somewhat generous in this case.Miss G disagreed with my provisional findings, and she noted her disappointment. She also 
set out some difficult personal circumstances, and the affect Admirals handling of the claim 
had on her and her son.
Admiral didnt respond by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr B and Miss Gs disappointment, particularly as our investigator reached 
a differed outcome. Im also sorry to hear of their difficult personal circumstances. However, 
I remain of the view that the pre-storm images show the roof was in a poor condition. In my 
view, the images support the surveyors conclusions.
Because Im not persuaded the storm was the main cause of the damage, I dont find 
Admirals claim decision, and partial settlement, to be unfair. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and Miss G, but for the reasons set out above, and in my 
provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman