DRN-3352366
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) recommended a term 
assurance policy and informed her it would provide a lump sum at the end of its term.
What happened
In 2009 Mrs T met with a Halifax adviser in branch and discussed her protection needs.
A level term assurance policy (LTA) was recommended which provided life and critical 
illness cover. Mrs T says she was told it would provide a lump sum at the end of its term. 
However, she later found out the policy had no cash-in value when she spoke with Halifax 
again in August 2020.
Mrs T complained. She felt the policy was mis-sold as she was led to believe it had a cash-in 
value at maturity. She also felt that there was no need for the policy as she had cover in 
place elsewhere to protect her mortgage. Halifax disagreed, and the complaint was referred 
to our service.
Our Investigator found the policy was a suitable recommendation at the time and that Halifax 
had provided correct information regarding the policy benefits and its lack of a maturity 
value. They didnt think there was enough evidence to suggest that any discussion which 
took place at the point of sale had advised the policy would mature.
Mrs T disagreed. She still felt strongly that the initial conversation with Halifax staff 
suggested the policy would mature. She explained she wouldnt have taken out another LTA 
policy when she already held similar cover. She asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key considerations are whether Halifax did enough to effectively communicate that the 
policy had no cash-in value at the outset, and whether the policy recommended was suitable 
for Mrs T.
Mrs T has said she only agreed to take out the policy because she was told it would pay out 
at maturity. I recognise Mrs Ts recollections about the time of sale, but I must weigh her 
recollections against the consideration of any documentary evidence available and decide 
what is most likely to have happened. Having done so, Im not satisfied that there is enough 
evidence to persuade me that, more likely than not, Mrs T was told or led to believe the 
policy would mature and provide a lump sum.
This is because I havent seen anything to suggest the policy had a cash-in value. The policy 
schedule details critical illness and life cover, and states specifically that Your plan will have 
no cash-in value at any time. The illustration also confirms the plan would only pay-out on 
the first valid claim [for death or critical illness] and then all cover under the plan will cease. 
I recognise Mrs T felt both these statements only related to the life and critical illness 
elements of her policy, not the savings element she thought was attached. But as there is no 
savings element detailed in any of the documentation, Im satisfied that it was reasonably 
clear the policy as a whole had no cash-in value.
Whilst I appreciate that I cant say with certainty what was discussed verbally at the time of 
sale, all documentation available explains how the policy wasnt designed to mature or pay 
out a final sum. Im satisfied the documentation is the most reliable representation of what 
happened available to me. So, I cant reasonably conclude that Halifax misled Mrs T about 
the nature of this policy as the balance of evidence doesnt support this. Im satisfied that 
Mrs T was reasonably informed that the policy was designed to provide critical illness and 
life protection, with no cash-in value.
Regardless, Id still expect the policy to be a suitable recommendation based on all the 
information Halifax was given by Mrs T at the time. Ive considered whether the policy was 
suitable for Mrs Ts needs based on the information she disclosed.
The fact-find completed at the time records Mrs T as 36 years old, employed, and married 
with two dependent children. It noted Mrs T already had cover in place to protect her 
mortgage  but was interested in exploring options for taking out a policy that would provide 
a lump sum specifically for her children in the event of her death or her suffering from a 
critical illness. It was also recorded that Mrs T wanted to limit the payments to up to £5 a 
month.
The policy recommended provided £8,952 of cover for a premium of £5 a month. It was set 
to run for 18 years, to coincide with Mrs Ts youngest child turning 18.
I can see why Halifax would recommend taking out a level term assurance policy in this 
situation  Mrs T had specified a clear need for protection which had the primary purpose of 
providing a lump sum for her children in the event of her death or falling critically ill. The 
cover meant that should Mrs T die or become critically ill within its term the amount would be 
left to her dependants.
Taking into consideration her recorded income and expenditure the policy recommended 
also appears to have been affordable for Mrs T when it was taken out, with a recorded 
disposable income of £350 a month and premiums of £5. Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
this cost was unaffordable at the point of sale.
I appreciate that Mrs T feels this was duplicate cover to what she already held in mortgage 
protection, but this policy differed in purpose. Mrs Ts existing cover was set up to protect her 
mortgage, and from what was recorded at the time wouldnt provide any payment in excess 
of covering her mortgage. Im satisfied the two provided different benefits for different 
purposes.
As the policy met Mrs Ts recorded needs, Im satisfied that the recommendation was 
suitable in the circumstances. As I think Halifaxs recommendation was suitable, I wont be 
asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman