DRN-4363923
The complaint
Mr L complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) sold him a policy that 
didnt meet his needs. 
What happened
Mr L bought a home insurance policy online that provided some cover for items stolen from a 
vehicle. Before he bought it, he contacted Admiral to clarify some of the cover. In an online 
chat, he explained he had two e-bikes and that they were stored inside a van. The bikes 
were chained to the van, and the van was kept either outside his home or occasionally away 
when he was on visits elsewhere in the UK.
Mr L was assured his bikes would be covered under these circumstances if he chose cover 
away from home and he did that.
Some while later the bikes were stolen, but when Mr L claimed for them he was told the 
maximum payable for a theft from a vehicle was £1,000  regardless of the actual value of 
the stolen items. Mr L says thats unfair as he wasnt told this during his webchat.
Mr L complained, and Admiral said it had made a mistake during the sale  it said its agent 
should have referred Mr L to the terms and conditions of the policy at this point. As it didnt 
do this, it said it would pay Mr L £30 compensation.
Mr L says this isnt fair as hes lost thousands of pounds, and he asked us to review the 
complaint. Our investigator agreed that Admiral should have done more, but noted also that 
Admiral said the online purchase process required Mr L to check a box to say he agreed with 
the terms and conditions governing the policy, and that hed been given access to these. 
He went on to say that this service has to consider what Mr L might have done differently if 
hed been specifically referred to the terms and conditions. So he asked Mr L to provide 
some evidence that he would have been able to buy better cover elsewhere (that is with a 
higher limit for items away from home). If he did that, our investigator said hed look at the 
complaint again.
Mr L was initially reluctant to do this, but did say hed been told verbally that such cover was 
available for a slightly higher premium  and hed have bought that cover if hed known 
Admirals £1,000 limit. 
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, this complaint is about the quality and completeness of the information Admiral 
provided when Mr L contacted it before deciding to buy his policy. I understand the actual 
sale was through a third party online intermediary.
Admiral has already acknowledged that there were shortcomings in the way it provided 
information about this policy, as its agent should have told Mr L to check the terms and 
conditions before buying the policy.
I dont think theres much point on me commenting further on this, so instead Ill concentrate 
on whether the redress Admiral offered (£30) was appropriate. 
At the time of writing I think it is. As our investigator has explained, this service initially looks 
to see if there were shortcomings in the way a business acted  and here thats already 
been acknowledged. We then go on to look at what Mr L might have done if the business 
hadnt made any mistakes. In that case Mr L would have been reminded to check the full 
terms and conditions before buying the policy. If hed done that, hed have realised that there 
was a maximum amount payable for theft from a vehicle and furthermore that this was much 
lower than the value of his belongings.
I do think its reasonable to say that Mr L might have shopped around to see if there was 
better cover available, and we asked Mr L to send us some evidence that if hed done that 
he would have found something more suitable. Mr L was initially reluctant to do this given 
Admiral had already accepted it had done something wrong. He later said hed been told he 
could have bought cover elsewhere for a slightly higher cost and would have done that. 
However, he hasnt provided anything in writing  for example a copy of a quote  that 
supports this. Without such evidence I cant say if its likely he could have bought better 
cover elsewhere. That means I cant ask Admiral to increase the compensation it offered.
If Mr L obtains this evidence he could ask Admiral to re-consider the amount of 
compensation, and Id expect Admiral to do that if he provides the evidence within a 
reasonable timeframe  say within 8 weeks of the date of this decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds 
offer of compensation was adequate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman