DRN-3240202
The complaint
Mr D and Miss T have complained that they are unable to change their joint account to a 
Premier Reward Black account.
What happened
Mr D holds a sole Premier Reward Black (PRB) package bank account with National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). He also holds a joint account with Miss T. Mr D 
requested to make the joint account a PRB account with the intention of then downgrading 
his sole PRB. Initially Mr D was told that this would be possible, but when he attempted to 
action this he was unable to do so.
NatWest has explained that Mr D and Miss T are not eligible for a new PRB and it is unable 
to transfer the benefits from one account to another. It did though say that Mr D could 
attempt to add Miss T onto his sole account. In addition, NatWest made an offer of £75 to 
reflect the initial misinformation and for inconvenience this matter has caused.
One of our adjudicators looked into this and they did not think that NatWest did anything 
wrong in not allowing Mr D and Miss T to change their joint account to the PRB account. She 
also thought that the £75 that NatWest has offered is sufficient to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience that this has caused.
Mr D and Miss T did not agree with this outcome and therefore they requested a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain that in general I can only ask a business to do something if it has 
actually made an error that has detrimental impact on a customer. In this instance I accept 
that it may seem incongruous that NatWest cant just transfer the benefits of the account 
over. But NatWest has explained that to upgrade the joint account Mr D and Miss T would 
need to meet the current eligibility criteria for the PRB, as it would in essence be opening a 
new PRB. 
NatWest have said that Mr D and Miss T do not meet these criteria and when we have 
explained these criteria to Mr D and Miss T they have not provided anything to suggest that 
they do. So given this I do not think that NatWest have actually made an error in following 
their own processes. I should also add it is not in the power of this service to ask a financial 
institution to alter the eligibility criteria for the products that it offers.
However, to overcome this issue, NatWest has suggested that Mr D could try adding Miss T 
to Mr Ds sole account. That way, by adding Miss T to an existing packaged account, they 
would not have to apply for a new account. Whilst I understand that this would cause some 
measure of inconvenience to Mr D and Miss T, I dont think that this is an unreasonable 
course of action to suggest in the circumstances. 
I accept that NatWest shouldve been clearer in the information that it provided initially. But I 
think that the £75 that it has offered for this is reasonable.
Finally, I should highlight that if the accounts that NatWest are able to offer Mr D and Miss T 
do not meet their requirements, they are free to change to a different account provider if they 
so wish.
Putting things right
NatWest should pay Mr D and Miss T £75 that is has already agreed to rectify this matter.
My final decision
My decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc has made an offer that is fair and 
reasonable and should pay the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman