DRN-4112395
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs G complain about how AWP P&C SA dealt with a claim against their travel 
insurance policy. Reference to AWP includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr M and Mrs G have travel insurance underwritten by AWP as 
a benefit of a bank account. They planned a trip with departure and return dates of         
6 December 2021 and 10 January 2022 respectively. On 21 December 2021,                
Mr M and Mrs Gs infant son, who Ill refer to as H, required emergency medical 
treatment in relation to a rash and swelling to his arm. They contacted AWP and made a 
claim against their policy. 
In January 2022, Mr M received an invoice from the treating hospital and contacted AWP 
to enquire about the progress of the claim. Mr M and Mrs G contacted AWP several 
times about its payment of the invoices from the treating hospital. On 28 April 2022, 
AWP e-mailed the treating hospital and other healthcare providers asking for medical 
reports, final bills and bank account information. Mr M and Mrs G continued to contact 
AWP regularly about the matter. 
In mid-September 2022, AWP discovered that it had made an error when it set up the 
claim in that it had named Mr M as the patient, rather than H. It asked the treating 
hospital and other providers for relevant information for the right patient, H. Mr M and 
Mrs G continued to chase AWP about progress of the matter. 
Mr M and Mrs G complained to AWP about the delay in dealing with their claim. AWP 
acknowledged the delay. Mr M and Mrs G continued to receive outstanding invoices and 
correspondence from a collection agency. 
Mr M and Mrs G want AWP to deal with their claim and compensation for their distress 
and inconvenience. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that AWP hadnt handled 
Mr M and Mrs Gs claim promptly, as its obliged to do. The investigator said that AWP 
delayed in reviewing the claim initially and in asking the treating hospital for relevant 
information. He said that AWP also set up the claim incorrectly, which caused confusion 
with the treating hospital. 
The investigator said that AWPs delays and errors caused Mr M and Mrs G worry and 
inconvenience as they received letters demanding payment and had to contact AWP 
about this on multiple occasions. He recommended that AWP pay Mr M and Mrs G 
compensation of £350 in relation to their distress and inconvenience.  The investigator 
said that AWP needed to carry out its own review of the treatment and invoices but that it 
should do so promptly. 
There was further correspondence between both parties and this service. Mr M and     
Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators recommendation. In summary, they say that 
this matter has been going on since December 2021 and theyve suffered stress and 
anxiety. They want this matter resolved and compensation in the region of £5,000.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
My provisional decision 
On 17 April 2023, I sent the parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I intended 
to uphold the complaint but the direction I intended to give in order to put things right is 
different from that which has been suggested before. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
Subject to the policy terms, Mr M and Mrs G are covered for emergency medical and 
associated expenses necessarily incurred as a result of unforeseen bodily injury, illness or 
disease. 
has the claim been handled fairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I intend to uphold this 
complaint because I dont think that AWP treated Mr M and Mrs G fairly or reasonably. I say 
that because:   
Its common ground that AWP didnt deal with Mr M and Mrs Gs claim promptly.     
Mr M and Mrs G first made their claim in December 2021. Based on what Ive seen, it 
appears that AWP didnt contact the treating hospital and other providers for the 
information it required until 28 April 2022. By then, Mr M and Mrs G had received 
multiple invoices from medical care providers. 
It subsequently transpired that AWP had incorrectly identified Mr M as the patient, 
instead of H. So, it had asked the medical care providers for information in relation to 
a patient they hadnt treated. 
In September 2022 - almost nine months after the initial claim  it asked the treating 
hospital and other providers for the information it required in relation to the correct 
patient. The delay didnt end there. In response to a query from this service, AWP says that it 
stopped chasing for the information it required. It acknowledges that wasnt the right 
course of action and that it should have continued to pursue the matter and kept      
Mr M and Mrs G informed. I understand that it began pursuing the matter again in or 
around February 2023.
In a case like this one, wed usually say that an insurer is entitled to ask for the 
information it needs in order to assess the claim. But in the particular circumstances 
of this complaint and given AWPs considerable delays, I think its fair and 
reasonable to direct AWP to settle the invoices from the treating hospital and other  
providers arising from Hs emergency medical treatment in December 2021, subject 
to the policy terms. For the avoidance of doubt, that includes laboratory invoices and 
any follow-up appointment. 
AWPs delay in dealing with this matter meant that Mr M and Mrs G received 
worrying correspondence over several months from the treating hospital, other 
providers and debt collectors. That no doubt caused them distress and 
inconvenience in relation to what should have been a straightforward claim. Ive 
considered this matter carefully. In all the circumstances, I think that compensation of 
£350 is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that decision, Ive taken into 
account the nature, extent and duration of Mr M and Mrs Gs distress and 
inconvenience caused by AWPs errors and delays in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
We didnt hear from Mr M and Mrs G in response to my provisional decision. AWP said that 
it had no additional comments.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any substantive comments following my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to change it. My provisional findings now form part of this final decision. For 
the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AWP should:
Settle the invoices from the treating hospital and other providers arising from Hs 
emergency medical treatment in December 2021, subject to the policy terms. For the 
avoidance of doubt, that includes laboratory invoices and any follow-up appointment.
Pay Mr M and Mrs G compensation of £350 in relation to their distress and 
inconvenience. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AWP P&C SA should now take the steps Ive 
set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman