DRN-4362144
The complaint
Mr A and Ms G complain that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined to port their 
mortgage. They want to understand why this was. 
What happened
Mr A and Ms G have had a mortgage with Nationwide since 2006. They want to move and 
port their mortgage. Mr A says their income has increased since they took out the mortgage, 
theyve always made payments on time and the mortgage loan has reduced. He says his 
credit score is excellent.
Mr A says he cant understand why Nationwide rejected their porting request. While 
Nationwide told him this was due to information on their credit files it didnt say what this 
was. Mr A says he cant understand why Nationwide considers them a lending risk or even 
why it needs to check affordability.
Our investigator said there wasnt evidence that Mr A and Ms G had applied to port on a like 
for like basis. The applications it had records of were for higher amounts or in a single name. 
Our investigator said if Mr A and Ms G still want to move they will have to make an 
application, which will be subject to checks. She said Mr A and Ms Gs broker should be able 
to guide them through the process.
Mr A said they werent complaining about applications where they asked for additional 
borrowing, or made an application in one name. He said their complaint is only about a joint 
application to port on a like for like basis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr A and Ms G took out a tracker product in 2008. The product offer says an early 
repayment charge (ERC) applied for the first five years of the product term. The product is 
portable. In late 2022 Mr A and Ms G decided to move home and port the mortgage. 
Rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to carry out strict affordability tests before 
offering or varying a mortgage. There are limited exceptions to this. 
If Mr A and Ms G had made a joint application for a loan of the same amount as their 
mortgage balance, its likely Nationwide would have been able to rely on an exception to port 
the mortgage, despite any concerns it might have had about affordability. Wed usually 
consider it unfair for a lender to decline a porting application on the basis of affordability if an 
exception applies.
I should say that this doesnt mean Nationwide cant check affordability. And it doesnt mean 
that it cant decline an application for reasons other than affordability. 
Nationwide provided its records of Mr A and Ms Gs applications in September 2022. They 
submitted a joint application with additional borrowing (which Nationwide declined). Mr A 
then submitted an application in his sole name. Mr A and Ms G didnt submit a joint 
application for a loan of the same amount as their mortgage balance. They didnt make a like 
for like porting application.
I cant fairly find that Nationwide should have processed an application in Mr As sole name 
as if it was a like for like porting request when this wasnt the case. 
Mr A says they are effectively trapped in their product and property. Its not clear why he 
says that. If Mr A and Mr G havent changed product since 2008 theres no ERC payable if 
they repay the mortgage or switch products. Nationwides mortgage adviser told Mr A there 
was no ERC payable in an email in late September 2022, but they can check this in their 
annual statement or with Nationwide. 
Mr A says Nationwide told him the joint application was rejected because of information in a 
credit report, but didnt say what this information is. While I understand that Mr A wants to 
know more about this, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to provide 
further information. If Mr A and Ms G want to check their credit reports, they can ask for 
copies from the credit rating agencies or services which provide copies free of charge.
If Mr A and Ms G are concerned about whether theyd be offered a mortgage by other 
providers, they might consider taking independent mortgage advice as to what their options 
are. If they do want to port their Nationwide mortgage product they will need to make an 
application to Nationwide. Id expect Nationwide to consider the application fairly and in 
accordance with rules on mortgage regulation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman