DRN-1407124
 
The complaint
Miss E complains that she was overcharged for a hotel booking, and Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services Plc (M&S) wouldnt help her to get her money back. 
What happened
Miss E said that shed booked a hotel overseas, and agreed a price of $1,477.952 in local 
currency. But she said that the hotel charged her $1,477,957. She said she had pre-
authorised for the hotel to take half, but it took the full amount. She asked M&S to help get 
her money back, but said it had never responded to her. 
M&S said it had checked the quote the hotel offered against the charge it made, and it 
couldnt see where the error was. If Miss E had been charged only $1,447 then shed be 
paying less than one UK pound for a four night stay for two people in a hotel. And it could 
see that shed been quoted $1,477,952 which was what shed been charged. M&S said it 
was confident that Miss E had been charged correctly. So it wouldnt pursue a chargeback 
request for her.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said banks dont have to 
raise chargebacks if it looks clear that the cardholder would lose. He said the hotel had 
confirmed that the cost was $1.447.952 in local currency. Our investigator thought that the 
confusion had arisen because the hotel used a full stop in its numbering, whereas the UK 
convention is to use commas. 
Our investigator said that the only mistake the hotel had made was in one email where it 
quoted the price as $1.4427.952. But that wasnt what Miss E was charged. The hotel had 
still charged what it said it would, $1.447.952. There hadnt been a mistake.
Our investigator said that Miss E raised her complaint on 20 August 2019, and M&S wrote to 
her on 21 August. Although Miss E didnt get that letter, our investigator thought it was sent. 
For these reasons, he said he couldnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss E didnt agree. She asked if what she signed and agreed to pay for was irrelevant. But 
our investigator still thought shed paid what was quoted. Miss E wanted her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss E received a quote for her hotel stay, which was written as $1.447.952. She thought 
that would mean a charge of a little over $1,000 in local currency. As M&S and our 
investigator noted, that works out at substantially less than a pound. But the hotel meant a 
little over $1,000,000 in local currency. That worked out as a bit more than £350. Miss E said she expected to pay about £35 for her hotel stay. But that doesnt match with the 
figures she received, or with the amount that she says was her understanding of those 
figures. I think this was a misunderstanding on her part.
Miss E has also told us at one point that she had only authorised the hotel to take half the 
quoted amount, but I havent seen any evidence of that in the emails between her and the 
hotel. So I think its more likely than not that Miss E had agreed to pay this amount, not half 
of it. And I do think she was charged the amount she was quoted for her hotel stay.
Because I think that Miss E was only charged what she had been quoted, I dont think that 
M&S had any way to successfully challenge this payment for Miss E. So I dont think M&S 
did anything wrong when it wrote to Miss E and said it was unable to raise a dispute. 
Miss E said M&S hadnt responded to her complaint. Ive listened to the calls she had with 
M&S. On 20 August M&S told her it wouldnt be making a chargeback request for her. She 
wanted to complain. And Ive seen a letter that M&S wrote to her the next day, which says it 
wouldnt uphold her complaint. Miss E told us she didnt get that letter, but I do think it was 
sent, and to the right address. So I dont think it would be M&S fault if that wasnt received. 
I know Miss E will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman