DRN-2074229
The complaint
Mrs C complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd declined her critical illness claim, voided her 
policy and refunded all premiums paid. 
For ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of Mrs C.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a joint 10 year level term Life and Critical Illness policy with Zurich on 
1 June 2018. The sum assured was £250,000. 
Mrs C applied for the policy using an Independent Financial Advisor (IFA), so an agent 
acting on her behalf, in September 2017. This first application was declined because of the 
family medical history disclosed by Mrs C. Zurich asked for more information about Mrs Cs 
family medical history and when this was provided, another application was completed and 
submitted in November 2017. The information provided by Mrs C was largely unchanged 
and that application was completed by the IFA. 
When Zurich received the second application, it contacted Mrs Cs GP, in late November 
2017 and asked him to complete a questionnaire. Mrs Cs GP provided medical information, 
some of which isnt relevant to this complaint. What is relevant is that he informed Zurich that 
Mrs C suffered from intermittent psoriasis, first diagnosed in 2014. 
Medical records mention a diagnosis of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) in September 2018 and Mrs 
C said she was diagnosed in February 2019. Mrs C submitted a claim under the Critical 
Illness policy in February 2019. Zurich turned down the claim. It said Mrs C answered no to 
the following question, when she should have answered yes: 
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us in the application, have you had any 
tremor, numbness, loss of feeling or tingling in the limbs or face, loss of balance or co-
ordination or loss of muscle power?
Zurich said Mrs Cs medical records show she arranged to see her GP in October 2017 and 
reported on and off feelings of coldness, numbness and tingling of the fingertips of both 
hands. Zurich said that although these consultations happened after the original application 
was submitted in August / September 2017, they occurred before the application was re-
submitted in early November 2017 and before the declaration was signed at the end of 
November 2017, and so should have been disclosed. 
Zurich said its underwriters confirmed they would not have offered Mrs C a policy on any 
terms until they were satisfied that all possible investigations had concluded and a diagnosis 
had been made. Zurich said in the event of a misrepresentation such as this, it is entitled to 
cancel the plan from the start, to treat the plan as if it never existed and to refund all 
payments made. 
Mrs C complained to Zurich. She said she had taken reasonable care to avoid making any 
misrepresentations. She said the relevant question is clearly aimed at fact finding in relation 
to unusual or out of the ordinary symptoms of numbness. She also said the question relates 
to limbs and this means arms and legs, but not fingertips. Mrs C also said she doesnt think 
any disclosures by her about numbness in her fingers would have resulted in a different 
underwriting outcome. She said investigations by her GP had ruled out MS at the point the 
policy was taken out. 
Zurich didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. It said given the multiple symptoms Mrs C discussed 
with her GP, and her own concerns about MS, she should have answered the relevant 
question differently. It added that it sent an acknowledgement letter to Mrs C in November 
2017, asking her to check the disclosures in the application and to inform Zurich if anything 
needed to be amended. Zurich said it was not made aware of any changes. 
Zurich also said Mrs C should have answered two other questions on her application form 
differently. These were: 
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us earlier in this application, have you had 
any disease or disorder of the skin such as psoriasis or a mole or freckle that has bled or 
changed in appearance.
and
Any disease or disorder of the eyes or ears such as double vision or visual impairment in 
one of both eyes, or ringing in one or both ears, tinnitus, labyrinthitis or Menieres disease?
Zurich said its Senior Claims Assessor had discussed Mrs Cs case again with its 
underwriters, who reiterated that they would not have been able to offer terms on the 
contract. It said the misrepresentation was reckless and the appropriate remedy was 
avoidance of the contract, refusal of the claim and a refund of premiums paid. 
Mrs C was unhappy with the response from Zurich and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mrs Cs medical records show Mrs C 
should have answered yes to the question asking if she had experienced numbness or 
tingling in the limbs or face and yes to the question about whether she suffered from a skin 
disorder such as psoriasis. So, our investigator said a misrepresentation had been made. 
Our investigator also said that Mrs Cs GP provided information to Zurich about her psoriasis 
in November 2017, so it should have been aware of this before the policy started. 
Our investigator agreed with Zurich that the misrepresentation was a qualifying one, 
meaning Zurich would have acted differently if it had known about Mrs Cs medical 
conditions. Our investigator also agreed with Zurich that the misrepresentation was reckless. 
She didnt think Mrs C deliberately set out to withhold information from Zurich however, she 
thought Mrs C ought to have known her answers were incorrect because she was given 
opportunities to update or amend the information on her application form.
Our investigator said Zurich provided evidence showing that it wouldnt have offered Mrs C a 
policy until the symptoms she presented with to her GP with in October 2017 had been 
investigated and a diagnosis made. So the only available remedy under CIDRA, in the 
circumstances, is to cancel the policy from inception and return the premiums. Mr C, a joint 
policy holder, confirmed he didnt wish to continue with the policy because he had arranged 
cover for himself elsewhere.
Mrs C did not agree with what our investigator said and so this case has come to me for a 
decision. I issued a provisional decision on 7 July 2020 and indicated that I intended to come to a 
different conclusion to that of the investigator, although I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint. I said I was satisfied the misrepresentation made by Mrs C was careless and not 
deliberate / reckless as Zurich had suggested. I also said I was satisfied Zurich would not 
have offered Mrs C a policy until it knew what was causing the sensations she was 
experiencing. I was also satisfied that any tests Mrs C might have undergone to find the 
cause of the sensations would have eventually resulted in the MS diagnosis. And so Zurich 
would never have offered the policy and it was fair for Zurich to cancel the policy and refund 
Mrs Cs premiums. 
I gave both parties until 2 August 2020 to respond with any further comments. 
Mrs C responded and Ive summarised the main points she made below: 
The odd sensation Mrs C experienced in one of her legs was not a tingling sensation 
or numbness, but a very distinct feeling of water running over her thigh and down her 
leg. She had not yet experienced this when she first applied for a policy in 
September. 
When questioned by the GP, Mrs C wished to give full disclosure and therefore 
mentioned, in response to his questions, matters which she considered to be 
inconsequential and mundane, and which she would not otherwise have raised with 
any medical professional. 
When asked if she had ever experienced any numbness or tingling, Mrs C noted that 
her fingertips sometimes went numb or tingled in cold weather, but that this was 
resolved by running them under warm water. This common and unremarkable 
reaction to cold was something she had experienced for as long as she could 
remember. 
When asked about her vision, Mrs C recalled that she had, once or twice, had a 
feeling of seeing something out of the corner of her eye, but, again, this was 
unremarkable and had not reoccurred.
Mrs C was told by her GP that he would not have considered MS if she had not 
raised it. 
Mrs C said she was diagnosed with MS in February 2019 and not September 2018, 
as stated in the provisional decision.
Mrs C said the reasonable consumer would interpret Question 1 to be making 
reference to unusual or unexplained numbness or tingling, not what amounts to an 
unremarkable and commonplace reaction to a specific stimulus, namely cold. Any 
failure to disclose the fact that Mrs C had, for as long as she could remember, 
sometimes felt numbness or tingling in her fingertips if they were exposed to cold 
cannot be a qualifying misrepresentation, because that does not amount to a breach 
of her duty to take reasonable care under Section 2(2) of CIDRA.
Mrs C said the reasonable consumer, particularly one who wore contact lenses, 
would not consider having a feeling of seeing something in the corner of their eye on 
one or two isolated occasions as amounting to a disease or disorder of the eye or, 
indeed, a visual impairment when considering and responding to Question 3. 
Mrs C said shes concerned that these issues are being considered through the 
prism of hindsight and given greater significance than they merited at the relevant 
time, because of the fact that Mrs C was diagnosed with MS some 15 months later.
The GP answered no when asked to give details of any medical history about 
multiple sclerosis; optic neuritis; numbness; loss of feeling or tingling of the limbs; 
and disorder of the eyes. If a qualified and competent medical professionals 
considered view was that the correct answer to those questions was No, why 
should Mrs C be held to a higher standard?Even if it is accepted that Zurich would have taken further steps had Questions 1 and 
3 been answered Yes, it is not credible to suggest that it would have withheld cover 
pending a determination of the cause of the minor issues described by our client in 
response to the questions asked by her GP on 3 October 2017.
At most, Zurich would have made further enquiries of the GP. Those enquiries would 
have resulted in the GP reporting that the issues described at the consultation on 3 
October 2017, and subsequently investigated, were not indicative of any underlying 
medical condition and that no further investigations were required 
Zurich did not respond to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made, 
including the comments submitted by Mrs C following the provisional decision, Ive 
limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to say 
whether Zurich acted fairly when it said Mrs C made a misrepresentation, when it 
classified the misrepresentation as deliberate / reckless and when it voided the policy.
Ive first of all looked at the relevant questions asked by Zurich, to see whether I think 
they are worded clearly enough for Mrs C to know what information she was being asked 
to provide. And Im satisfied that they are clearly worded. I can see that Mrs C has 
suggested the question about numbness or tingling in limbs wouldnt have applied to her 
anyway, because the sensation she experienced was in her fingertips and, to her mind, 
these are not limbs. But I dont agree and Im satisfied that a reasonable consumer, 
which is the appropriate test here, would understand that fingers and hands form part of 
a limb. 
I know Mrs C also said the IFA completed the November 2017 application in its entirety, 
and so she didnt provide any information prior to that form being submitted. But the IFA 
is acting on Mrs Cs behalf, he is her agent and she has a responsibility to provide him 
with the correct information. In any event, Mrs C hasnt said the IFA submitted incorrect 
information, so Im satisfied he likely to have provided the same information to Zurich that 
Mrs C had provided him with when the September 2017 application was made. 
To be clear, the September 2017 application made by Mrs C was declined and the policy 
was only offered after the November 2017 application was submitted. So, for the 
purposes of this decision, I am looking at what information should have been provided in 
the November 2017 application.
Having looked at Mrs Cs medical records, Im satisfied that a misrepresentation was 
made. Ill explain why. Mrs Cs medical records show she visited her GP in October 2017 because she felt what 
she described as an odd sensation in one of her legs. She said she felt as if water was 
running down her leg. During this visit, the GP asked Mrs C specific questions about 
other sensations she might have experienced. In response to these questions, Mrs C 
said she had felt tired recently; she sometimes experienced numbness and tingling in her 
fingertips in cold weather, which was resolved by running her fingers under warm water; 
she had a feeling of seeing something out of the corner of her eye once or twice in the 
week prior to the appointment and that her hands had been feeling stiff when she woke 
up in the morning. Mrs Cs GP ran some tests and when she returned to see him around 
three weeks later, he told her the test results were normal. 
I know that Mrs C has said her GP ruled out MS as a possible cause of the sensations 
she experienced, and so no diagnosis of MS was made. And she also said she believes 
the questions were being asked to find out if shes had unusual or out of the ordinary 
symptoms. Mrs C said the fingertip numbness was trivial, sporadic and entirely 
unremarkable. Mrs C said the answer she gave was true, based on a reasonable 
interpretation of the question.  
But the questions posed by Zurich werent asking Mrs C to only disclose symptoms 
related to a definite diagnosis. And they werent asking Mrs C to assess whether the 
sensations shed experienced were abnormal or not. She was simply being asked to 
disclose whether shed felt numbness and tingling in her limbs, or any visual impairment 
in one or both eyes. And her medical records show that she had experienced these  the 
numbness and tingling in her fingertips in cold weather and the feeling of seeing 
something out of the corner of her eye - and also that she had very recently discussed 
these sensations with her GP. And I think that if Mrs C considered these sensations 
noteworthy enough to disclose them to her GP, following questioning by him, then these 
two sensations should have been disclosed when the November 2017 application was 
submitted. 
Mrs C also didnt disclose psoriasis. She should have disclosed this, but I can see that 
when Zurich contacted her GP in November 2017, it was told about the psoriasis. So 
Zurich was aware of this condition before it offered the policy and so it should have taken 
it into consideration at that point in time.
Having seen the information provided by Zurich in relation to how it would have 
underwritten this policy, Im satisfied that if Zurich had known about the numbness and 
tingling in Mrs Cs fingertips and the impaired vision she experienced, it wouldnt have 
offered either Life or Critical Illness cover until it knew the cause of these sensations. Its 
of no consequence that MS was ruled out by Mrs Cs GP. Whats relevant here is that 
Zurich would have needed to know what was causing the sensations. This means the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying one, as Zurich would have taken a different course of 
action if it had all the relevant medical information. 
Zurich classified the misrepresentation as deliberate / reckless, but I dont think this was fair. 
Im satisfied the misrepresentation was careless. Ill explain why. 
Mrs C disclosed a number of other medical conditions when she originally submitted her 
application. Some of these had an impact on the cover Zurich was willing to offer her and 
Zurich applied an exclusion to the policy in relation to cancer. So Im satisfied that Zurich 
wasnt acting fairly when it said Mrs C deliberately or recklessly withheld information, when 
its clear she was willing to disclose other significant medical conditions. I think Mrs C didnt disclose the sensations she experienced because she thought they were 
of no consequence. But, as I said earlier, Mrs C wasnt being asked to assess the relevance 
of the sensations she experienced, and I think she should have taken more care to answer 
the questions asked. 
So, Im satisfied that Mrs C made a careless misrepresentation when she took out the policy 
with Zurich in June 2018. Where there is a careless misrepresentation, CIDRA allows Zurich 
to take whatever action it would have taken at the time if the misrepresentation hadnt been 
made. 
Zurich has shown that it wouldnt have offered Mrs C Life or Critical Illness cover until it knew 
the cause of the sensations she experienced. This means the application wouldve either 
been turned down, or postponed, until the reason for the sensations were known. It would 
not have been enough for Zurich to be aware that her GP had ruled out MS as a possible 
cause or that he didnt, at that point in time, indicate an underlying cause for the sensations. 
Mrs Cs medical records show that the sensations she discussed with her GP in October 
2017 are now considered likely to be the first symptoms of MS. At the time, her GP thought 
what Mrs C was experiencing was inconsistent with MS, but he didnt pinpoint the cause of 
what she was experiencing. As the numbness, tingling and visual impairment sensations are 
now seen as the first symptoms of MS, I think its likely that Zurich would never have been 
able to offer cover. This is because any tests Mrs C might have undergone to find the cause 
of the sensations would have eventually resulted in the MS diagnosis.  
Im satisfied Mrs C wouldnt have been offered a policy by Zurich and so a claim wouldnt 
have been paid. This means I think it was fair for Zurich to cancel the policy and return the 
premiums paid, despite the unfair classification of the misrepresentation. Mr C might well still 
have been offered cover, but I understand he does not want to continue with the policy and 
has arranged cover elsewhere.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman