DRN-4199919
The complaint
Mr F complains that MetLife Europe d.a.c has turned down an incapacity claim he made on 
a group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive set out a summary of 
what I think are the key events. 
Mr F is insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
includes a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In May 2022, Mr F saw his GP, suffering with an infection caused by a flare-up of long-
standing Crohns disease. In June 2022, Mr F was signed-off from work suffering from work-
related stress.  As Mr F remained unfit for work, his employer made an incapacity claim on 
the group policy on Mr Fs behalf. Mr F said that he was suffering from work-related stress 
and a flare-up of Crohns Disease.
MetLife assessed Mr Fs claim. It reviewed evidence from Mr Fs GP, along with records 
from occupational health. Ultimately, MetLife concluded that Mr F was suffering from work-
related stress. It said it hadnt seen sufficient medical evidence to support a conclusion that 
Mr F was suffering from a pervasive mental health issue, or a sustained flare-up of Crohns 
disease which was significantly affecting his level of function. Therefore, MetLife concluded 
that Mr F hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity for the whole of the deferred period 
and so it turned down the claim.
Mr F was unhappy with MetLifes decision and he provided further evidence from his GP in 
support of his position. He also provided evidence to show that hed been awarded Personal 
Independence Payments (PIP). However, MetLife maintained its decision and so Mr F asked 
us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. She thought the medical 
evidence indicated that Mr Fs symptoms during the deferred period were mainly due to 
work-related stress. And she felt the evidence showed that it wasnt an illness which was 
preventing Mr F from returning to work, it was his work situation. She didnt think it had been 
unfair for MetLife to turn down Mr Fs claim.
Mr F disagreed. In summary, he said his concern was that he hadnt been paid due to his 
work issues, which had caused a mental breakdown. He said he was surprised that the 
investigator hadnt asked for evidence of the bullying hed suffered, which had led to his 
breakdown and caused a flare-up of Crohns disease. He set out what had happened and 
that hed been threatened with losing his job and had been constantly harassed by 
management. He questioned where in the policy MetLife stated that it didnt cover mental-
health issues, whether related to work stress, or general life. He was also unhappy because 
hed received information from his employer in which MetLife had stated that it didnt cover 
work-related stress. 
Subsequently, in June 2023, Mr F provided a further letter from his GP. This explained how 
Mr Fs Crohns disease symptoms affected him and why Mr F had been unable to carry out 
his own occupation. 
The investigator forwarded the evidence to MetLife for its comments. But it didnt think that 
the new evidence showed that Mr F had been incapacitated by Crohns disease throughout 
the 26-week deferred period. And having reviewed the new medical evidence, the 
investigator still didnt think MetLife had treated Mr F unfairly.
Mr F still felt that it had been unfair for MetLife to turn down his claim and so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr F, I dont think it was unfair for MetLife 
to turn down this claim and Ill explain why.
First Id like to reassure Mr F that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Im 
very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr F needing to make a claim and I 
dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has been for him and his family. Within 
this decision though, I havent commented on each and every point hes made and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the policy and the available medical and other evidence, to decide whether I 
think MetLife handled Mr Fs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mr Fs 
employers contract with MetLife. Mr Fs employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity 
benefit, given he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for MetLife 
to consider whether Mr Fs claim met the policy definition of incapacity. MetLife provided 
cover for Mr Fs own occupation. Ive turned then to look at MetLifes definition of 
incapacity. This says:
Unable to perform their own occupation - an insured member, eligible employee or eligible 
partner, is incapacitated if:
- they are unable to perform, due to illness or injury, the material and substantial duties 
required of them in their own occupation which they were performing immediately 
prior to being incapacitated; and
- are not following any other occupation.
MetLife has also defined what it means by material and substantial duties as follows:
occupation-related duties that:
 are normally required for the performance of an occupation; and
 cannot be reasonably omitted, changed or modified.
This means that in order for MetLife to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that a 
member is suffering from an illness which prevents them from carrying out the material and 
substantial duties of their own occupation. And that the illness would prevent them from 
carrying out those material and substantial duties for any other employer or in any other workplace   it doesnt mean that a member cant carry out their substantive role for their 
current employer only. 
The policy says that MetLife will pay incapacity benefit once a member has been 
continuously incapacitated for the full deferred period and afterwards. In this case, it means 
that Mr F needed to be continuously incapacitated for the full 26-week period and afterwards 
in order for benefit to be paid. Mr Fs deferred period ran between June and December 2022.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for an insured member to show they have a valid 
claim on their policy. This means it was Mr Fs responsibility to provide MetLife with enough 
evidence to demonstrate that his illness had led to him being unable to carry out the duties 
of his own occupation for the full 26-week deferred period and afterwards.
MetLife assessed the evidence Mr F provided in support of his claim. While it sympathised 
with Mr Fs position, it concluded that he wasnt suffering from a mental or other illness which 
resulted in continuous incapacity for the entire deferred period. Instead, it felt that Mr F was 
suffering with a reaction to his workplace circumstances that most likely didnt amount to a 
defined medical problem.
Ive first looked at the claim forms completed by both Mr F and his employer. Mr F said he 
was suffering from Crohns disease and anxiety and stress (work). The claim form asked 
what Mr F believed to be the cause of his illness. Mr F answered: work stress. Mr Fs 
employer said that the cause of Mr Fs absence was work-related stress. The form asked 
Mr Fs employer to what extent the illness affected Mr Fs ability to carry out the main 
activities of his role. His employer answered: claimant is unable to attend work due to work 
related stress, linked to alleged bullying and harassment. This supports Mr Fs later account 
to us that he felt his workplace issues had led to a mental breakdown.
Next, Ive considered the available medical evidence for the period spanning the deferred 
period  June to December 2022. Ive carefully considered both Mr Fs fit notes for the 
relevant period, along with his GPs records. Ive seen copies of fit notes for June, July, 
August, October and December 2022. On each note, the doctor has recorded that Mr F 
wasnt fit for work due to work-related stress.
Mr Fs GP records broadly correlate with the diagnosis set out by the GP on each fit note. 
On 16 June 2022, the GP recorded that Mr F had been under a lot of stress, due to 
bereavements and a lot of stress from work. The note says that Mr F intended to self-refer 
to talking therapy and it seems he was prescribed an anti-anxiety medication.
On 30 June 2022, the GP records state that: (Mr F) has had meeting with HR at work. Has 
been sent home. Advised to take some time off work. Spoke to Union, advised to take some 
time off work. At this point, a fit note was issued, which, as Ive explained above, recorded 
that Mr F was unfit for work due to work-related stress.
In July 2022, the GP noted that Mr Fs employer had been in touch to advise him to undergo 
occupational health assessment. The GP stated that a fit note was being issued and that Mr 
F will consider phased return/amended duties at this stage, otherwise alternative job.
Subsequently, in September 2022, Mr F discussed other medical issues with his GP. 
Amongst other medical issues, the GP recorded: (Mr F) has been allegedly bullied. Has 
contacted HR. Has been off from workOH (occupational health) involved.
I appreciate that the GP notes show that at times between June and December 2022, Mr F 
suffered from other medical problems, including sciatica and Covid-19. And there is 
reference to Mr Fs long-standing history of Crohns disease. But theres no indication in either his medical records or the fit notes that Mr F was incapacitated and prevented from 
working by any cause other than work-related stress during the deferred period.
In September 2022, Mr F also saw a consultant occupational health physician. Ive carefully 
considered their report and set out what I think are their main points:
Mr F has told me that he is currently off work due to alleged workplace issues which he 
described to me as bullying. He discussed several events and issues which he explained 
justify his views
He described an associated detriment to his emotional healthhis inflammatory bowel 
disease has been more troublesome
Mr F understands that I am not able to comment on matters of truth or veracity. Nonetheless, 
what is clear is that the reported work events have contravened his principles of how he 
feels things should be done and handledSuch views are known to lead to what is more 
widely termed as moral injury
Mr F is currently unfit for work due to elevated levels of anxiety.
The timescale for return to work I doubt will be medically driven. Specifically, I do not 
anticipate changes in medication to lead to a sustainable return to work and a limited role for 
counselling, given the apparent presence of significant moral and ethical issues underlying 
his current absence. 
I believe these would need to be addressed to a mutually satisfactory conclusion to result in 
a return to workIf (Mr Fs concerns) can be addressed, it is entirely plausible that he may 
return to work soon thereafter.
It appears that the occupational health physician concluded that the main reason for Mr Fs 
absence was work-related stress and the workplace issues he was experiencing. While the 
report references Mr Fs Crohns disease being more troublesome, it doesnt suggest that 
this condition caused symptoms which were the cause of Mr Fs incapacity.
Mr F spoke with another consultant occupational health physician in March 2023. They 
considered that Mr F was unfit to work due to a significant exacerbation of Crohns disease. 
At this point, it appears that Mr Fs workplace issues had been resolved. But in summary, the 
physician stated that Mr F had reported that since June 2022, hed experienced worsening 
and debilitating symptoms of Crohns disease. This evidence suggested that by March 2023, 
over two months after the deferred period had ended, workplace stress was no longer a 
reason for Mr Fs absence.
But on the basis of the overall evidence which was provided to MetLife at the time it decided 
to decline Mr Fs claim, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to conclude that the main 
reason Mr F was off work was due to work-related stress. The majority of the available 
medical evidence (and Mr Fs own account) point to this being the main reason for his 
absence. I dont think there was enough medical evidence to indicate how or why Crohns 
disease or any other illnesses during the deferred period caused Mr F a sustained period of 
incapacity.
Im mindful though that since MetLife issued its decision to turn down the claim and again 
since our investigator issued her assessment; Mr Fs GP has provided further evidence. Ive 
gone on to think about whether it was fair for MetLife to maintain its position.
In April 2023, Mr Fs GP wrote to MetLife in support of Mr Fs position. They said:I am writing to confirm that since May 2022, he has had significant flare-ups of both his 
Crohns disease, but also his mental health, simultaneously. So, I can confirm that he has 
not been fit to work due to both physical and mental health problems since June 2022.
The letter further referred to Mr Fs self-management for Crohns disease with steroids. The 
GP stated: Consequently, his medical record may underrepresent his level of illness, but 
safe to say he has been significantly unwell and unable to work through this period.
MetLife considered the GPs evidence and accepted that Mr F may have suffered flare-ups 
during the deferred period which he self-managed. But it felt the letter affirmed that there 
was little in the medical records to show the impact on Mr Fs function during the relevant 
time. Nor did it think that the letter indicated that thered been a sustained impact on Mr Fs 
function throughout the entire deferred period which meant hed been unable to perform the 
material and substantial duties of his role. I dont think this was an unreasonable position for 
MetLife to take, taking into account the content of the fit notes, medical records and 
occupational health report.
 
Mr F subsequently provided a second letter from his GP, dated 27 June 2023. This letter 
explained how Crohns disease affected Mr Fs ability to work and stated that during flares, 
he is significantly unwell. The GP further explained the symptoms Mr F experienced during 
a flare-up and that in Mr Fs case, his illness could also cause recurrent UTIs.
MetLife had an opportunity to comment on the letter. It felt that some of the GPs comments 
were a general description of the symptoms of Crohns disease.  It said there was only one 
mention of a UTI in Mr Fs medical records and that this would only have led to a short 
period of absence. It acknowledged that Crohns was a debilitating disease, but in this case, 
the contemporaneous evidence (and Mr Fs own words) showed that the primary reason for 
his absence were the workplace issues.
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence thats been provided, including the GPs 
letter of June 2023. Its important I make it clear that Im not a medical expert. In reaching a 
decision, I must consider the evidence provided by both medical professionals and other 
experts to decide what evidence I find most persuasive. Its clear that Mr F was suffering 
from symptoms which can also be indicative of a significant mental health condition and its 
also clear that he has a long-standing history of a debilitating condition which can cause 
serious flare-ups. Im conscious that Mr F was prescribed anti-anxiety medication and was 
referred to talking therapy. And Im aware hes also been awarded PIP.
But, taking into account the totality of the medical and other evidence available to MetLife, I 
think it was reasonable for MetLife to conclude that the evidence showed Mr F was suffering 
from an understandable reaction to the workplace situation in which he found himself. And 
that the main reason for Mr Fs absence between June and December 2022 was likely the 
workplace stress he was experiencing as opposed to a mental health condition. It also 
seems, from the first occupational health consultants report, that Mr F wouldnt be in a 
position to return to work until the workplace issues had been resolved. I think this evidence 
points towards the main cause of Mr Fs absence being the workplace issues. I think it 
indicates too that he was suffering from an understandable reaction to his personal 
circumstances - rather than a functionally impairing mental illness, or a sustained impact on 
his function as a result of Crohns disease.
This means I dont find that MetLife acted unfairly when it decided that Mr F wasnt 
suffering from a significant mental health condition or other functionally impairing illness, 
during the deferred period, which prevented him from carrying out the material and 
substantial duties of his occupation. Id add too that I dont think it was unreasonable for MetLife to make an early indication to Mr Fs employer that if the claim was found to be down 
to work-related stress, then it was unlikely to be covered. That was its assessment based on 
the information it had seen at that point.
Overall, I dont think it was unfair for MetLife to conclude that Mr Fs absence wasnt due to 
an incapacity in line with the policy definition. Instead, I think it fairly concluded that the main 
cause of Mr Fs absence was more likely due to workplace stress and a reaction to his 
circumstances.  So despite my natural sympathy with Mr Fs position, I find it was fair and 
reasonable for MetLife to turn down his income protection claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman