DRN-3787253
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc reported a default incorrectly to her credit file.
What happened
In September 2021, HSBC defaulted Mrs Cs loan account and reported it to her credit file.
At that time Mrs C was attempting to obtain a mortgage to purchase a house, but the
mortgage lender withdrew the mortgage because of the appearance of the HSBC default on
Mrs Cs credit file. Mrs C wasnt happy about what had happened, and felt that HSBC should
have defaulted her account significantly prior to when they did, so that the default showed as
being over a year old in September 2021, which would have been acceptable to the
mortgage provider. So, she raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mrs Cs complaint. They acknowledged that they should have defaulted the
account no more than six months after Mrs C entered into a debt-management plan in
January 2020, and they apologised to Mrs C for this and agreed to backdate the default to
July 2020. HSBC made a payment of £50 to Mrs C as compensation for any trouble and
upset she may have experienced.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, especially as the default remained incorrectly
dated on her credit file and given that shed lost the opportunity to purchase the house she
wanted. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the £50 award of
compensation already made by HSBC didnt fairly reflect the impact of what had happened
here, and they recommended that HSBC should ensure that the default was backdated
correctly as a matter of urgency and increase the total compensation amount payable to
Mrs C to £750.
Mrs C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 October 2022 as follows:
HSBC have acknowledged that the default should have been reported to Mrs Cs 
credit file significantly sooner that was the case, and theyve agreed to backdate the 
default to July 2020 as a result. And HSBC have also accepted our investigators 
recommendation to pay compensation totalling £750 to Mrs C for the trouble and 
upset that this matter had caused.
Im aware that Mrs C remains unhappy with this resolution, and that she feels that 
shes incurred financial losses as a result of not being able to move forwards with the 
mortgage offer that was agreed in principle but which couldnt be progressed 
because of the appearance of the HSBC reported default on her credit file. And Im 
also aware that Mrs C feels that the upset that this matter has caused her, including 
the effect on her close personal relationships, is significant and isnt fairly resolved by 
a payment of £750.
When considering whether a consumer has incurred financial losses because of a 
mortgage offer being withdrawn, an immediate question that presents itself is what 
was the mortgage offer that was withdrawn? But in this instance, I dont feel that this 
service has been provided with enough information about the details of the mortgage 
offer that had been agreed on a decision-in-principle basis. For instance, this service 
has asked for a copy of the decision in principle on several occasions, but so far this 
hasnt been provided to us.
In the absence of this information I find it very difficult to consider instructing HSBC to 
cover Mrs Cs claimed financial losses as she would like here. There are several 
reasons for this, including that it seems possible that the decision-in-principle was 
agreed before the default was reported to Mrs Cs credit file by HSBC, meaning that 
the default wasnt present at all on Mrs Cs credit file when the agreement-in-principle 
was reached. As such, without more detailed information from the mortgage lender 
directly, I presently find it very difficult to conclude that a similar agreement-in-
principle would definitely have been offered had the default been present on Mrs Cs 
credit file from the correct date.
Similarly, while I acknowledge and sympathise with Mrs C in regard to the difficult 
personal circumstances that shes had to deal with following this issue, I hope that 
Mrs C will understand that its difficult for me to say with any reasonable confidence 
that whats happened can be solely attributed to the incorrect reporting of the default 
by HSBC. That isnt to say that the issue of the default hasnt been a contributing 
factor to the difficult personal circumstances that Mrs C has encountered, but only to 
say that I find it difficult to reasonably state that it was the only or primary factor, such 
that HSBC should fairly be held accountable.
What is clear is that Mrs C has incurred a significant amount of upset and 
inconvenience in regard to her attempts to resolve the events under consideration 
here, including that Mrs C had to chase HSBC for a resolution on multiple occasions 
as demonstrated by the correspondence provided to this service by both her and 
HSBC.
But HSBC have already agreed to our investigators recommendation to pay 
compensation totalling £750 to Mrs C because of the trouble and upset that shes 
incurred here. And while I accept that matters of compensation can be subjective, I 
feel that this amount does represent a fair and reasonable compensation amount for 
the distress and inconvenience incurred by Mrs C which I feel can be unquestionably 
attributed to HSBC. And I can confirm that this amount is commensurate with what I 
would have instructed HSBC to pay, had they not already done so.
All of which means that Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mrs Cs favour, 
but only the basis that HSBC must make pay compensation to Mrs C totalling £750  
which its my understanding that HSBC have already done.
I issue this decision provisionally because I acknowledge that Mrs C has experienced 
a very difficult time personally in recent months and so as to allow her one final 
opportunity to provide more detailed information about the mortgage offer-in-principle 
that was later withdrawn - although I must caution Mrs C that the provision of this more detailed information from the mortgage provider may not necessarily mean that 
I will change my decision here, for the reasons explained previously in this letter. I 
also invite both Mrs C and HSBC to provide any other comments or new information 
they might wish me to consider before I move to issue a final decision.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs C did provide a copy of the decision-in-principle 
letter received from the mortgage provider. But this letter only provides a very broad 
confirmation that the mortgage provider agrees in principle to lend a set amount to Mrs C, 
and it doesnt include any more detailed information about the mortgage that Mrs C might 
have obtained, including that it doesnt confirm what interest rate the mortgage may have 
attracted, or the term over which the money may have been lent.
Additionally, the decision-in-principle letter lists several factors that may affect any full 
mortgage application that Mrs C may subsequently make, including various checks and 
verifications on Mrs C and her financial position that hadnt been undertaken at that time. 
And the decision-in-principle letter also makes it clear that the letter doesnt constitute an 
offer to lend and isnt a binding commitment, both of which would only take place after Mrs C 
has applied for and received a full mortgage offer.
Returning then to the question I posed in the provisional decision letter above, which was 
what was the mortgage offer that was withdrawn, I dont feel that the decision-in-principle 
letter provides a sufficiently detailed explanation such that any potential losses could be 
calculated. Instead, I feel that it only confirms there was a very general acknowledgement 
that the mortgage provider would be willing to lend to Mrs C so long as a series of checks 
and verifications that hadnt yet been completed were completed satisfactorily. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs C was wanting, but it follows from this that I 
wont be instructing HSBC to cover any losses that Mrs C feels that shes incurred as a 
result of the decision-in-principle offer being withdrawn. 
This is because, even in consideration of this further information, I dont feel that it can fairly 
or reasonably be said that HSBC incorrectly reporting the default as they did was the primary 
or sole factor for Mrs C not obtaining the mortgage she wanted. Instead, I feel there were a 
number of other variables that could have led to Mrs C not obtaining a mortgage here, 
including that there was no guarantee that any full mortgage application that Mrs C made 
would have been successful, and that there was no guarantee that Mrs C would have been 
offered a mortgage a rate that was affordable for her. 
I also feel it must be recognised that Mrs C obtained the decision-in-principle at a time when 
the default in question wasnt reported to her credit file at all, and given that it should have 
been the case that a default was present on Mrs Cs credit file  albeit at an earlier date than 
at which it was later incorrectly added  I dont feel that there is any guarantee that Mrs C 
would have received a similar offer from the mortgage provider to that which they were 
potentially willing to provide when no default was present. 
All of which means that while my final decision here will be that I will be upholding this 
complaint in Mrs Cs favour, Ill only be doing so on the basis outlined in my provisional 
decision, which is that HSBC must make pay compensation to Mrs C totalling £750  which 
its my understanding HSBC have already done. I hope Mrs C will understand, given 
everything that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
If they havent already done so, HSBC must make a payment to Mrs C of £750.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman