DRN-2139514
The complaint
Mr D has a buy-to-let mortgage with Nationwide Building Society and is unhappy with how it 
has treated him.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. I issued a decision in August 2020 explaining which parts of Mr Ds complaint wed be 
considering, which are:
Mr D says he asked Nationwide many times in 2018 what his revised payments 
would be if it paid the £6,094.83 (that was paid in July 2018).
Nationwide didnt tell him part of his mortgage was being moved to a capital and 
interest basis - and therefore his payments would be increasing - until he queried the 
higher monthly payment due that was shown on his 2018 annual mortgage statement 
(issued in January 2019).
Nationwide failed to process an £11,000 capital repayment correctly.
Nationwide wont reissue the 2018 mortgage statement with what Mr D says are the 
correct figures on it.
Mr D says his mortgage was charged at a much higher rate than had been agreed.
Nationwide said it would report details of the mortgage account to credit reference 
agencies.
Nationwide said it would pay a further £4,034.40 in 2019 following a ruling from a 
tribunal relating to the unpaid ground rent and other freeholder charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that I have. 
Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the 
crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This service 
is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this means is that 
we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how 
a complaint will be looked at.
Mr D says he asked Nationwide many times in 2018 what his revised payments would be if it 
paid the £6,094.83 (that was paid in July 2018).
The letter Nationwide sent to Mr D on 20 July 2018 about this amount said We will charge 
interest on this from the 1st of January next year unless you make a one-off payment to your 
mortgage account. 
Whilst I understand Mr D wanted to know how much his payment would increase by in 2019 
that wasnt something Nationwide could tell him, as it was entirely dependent on what 
happened between July 2018 and then. Things such as when Mr D made his payments each 
month, whether the interest rate changed, whether any other fees or charges were incurred 
(amongst others) would all impact on what his future payments would be.
The new monthly payment simply wouldnt be known until after year end (which was 
31 December 2018) when the calculations would be carried out, and Mr D was told this.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Mr Ds complaint.
Nationwide didnt tell him part of his mortgage was being moved to a capital and interest 
basis - and therefore his payments would be increasing - until he queried the higher monthly 
payment due that was shown on his 2018 annual mortgage statement (issued in January 
2019).
Nationwide acted in line with the account terms and conditions when it placed the amount in 
excess of the original £80,000 on repayment basis, as they say:
In addition, if the repayment type is "interest only" and the interest calculation 
balance (less any arrears) comes to exceed the original amount of the loan plus any 
product fee which remains outstanding, the repayment type which applies to the 
excess will be "repayment". Such an excess may arise because, for example, an 
item of expenses has been added to the interest calculation balance. The 
"repayment" method will cease to apply if and when the excess is eliminated by any 
subsequent payments you make to the credit of your account.
Nationwide acknowledged in its complaint responses that this should have been explained in 
writing to Mr D and he had to contact it on a number of occasions to try to clarify matters. It 
paid him compensation for these mistakes and also said if Mr D made a payment to clear the 
capital and interest part of the mortgage it would backdate that amount to show the payment 
as having been made in January 2019. Mr D made that payment and it was backdated as 
per Nationwides offer.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Mr Ds complaint as Im satisfied 
Nationwides resolution was sufficient.
Nationwide failed to process an £11,000 capital repayment correctly.
Nationwide acknowledged it processed Mr Ds £11,000 capital repayment incorrectly, by 
paying that amount to a residential mortgage (thus closing it) rather than to this buy-to-let 
mortgage account.
The error was corrected by the residential account being re-opened and the payment 
reversed off. The payment was then credited to this account as at the date the payment was 
originally made, and part of it was backdated to 1 January 2019 (as agreed in the section 
above). Nationwide also apologised for the mistake and offered Mr D further compensation.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Mr Ds complaint as Im satisfied 
Nationwides resolution was sufficient.Nationwide wont reissue the 2018 mortgage statement with what Mr D says are the correct 
figures on it.
The 2018 mortgage statement was correct so there are no grounds for me to order that it be 
reissued. The fact Mr D later made a payment that was backdated to 1 January 2019, thus 
removing the capital and interest element and lowering his payments, doesnt alter that.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D says his mortgage was charged at a much higher rate than had been agreed.
It seems this part of this complaint was based on the fact Mr Ds calculations didnt take into 
account that the excess amount was on a capital and interest basis, rather than it all being 
interest only.
We dont provide an auditing service or carry out a forensic analysis of mortgage accounts. 
But Ive looked at the mortgage details and carried out some basic calculations and it doesnt 
seem to be the case that Nationwide is charging Mr D a higher rate of interest than had been 
agreed. Of course, its open to Mr D to instruct an independent qualified professional to audit 
his account. But that would have to be at his expense  though if errors were found to his 
financial detriment, he could complain about them and any reasonable costs in discovering 
them could be taken into account in putting matters right.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Mr Ds complaint.
Nationwide said it would report details of the mortgage account to credit reference agencies.
Nationwide told Mr D that it would report details of his mortgage account to credit reference 
agencies. Whilst Mr D may have seen that as a threat, thats not the case. Its a 
straightforward statement of fact. Nationwide is obliged to remind borrowers of that fact if 
there is a chance of them going into arrears, or if theyve already gone into arrears.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Mr Ds complaint.
Nationwide said it would pay a further £4,034.40 in 2019 following a ruling from a tribunal 
relating to the unpaid ground rent and other freeholder charges.
Mr D has commented on my use of the phrase unpaid ground rent and other freeholder 
charges saying;
Also, without wishing to be pedantic, I must again comment upon the use of the term 
"ground rent" in the Ombudsman response. Although the Ombudsman has revised the 
use of this term to now include "and other Freeholder charges" I am not convinced this is 
as accurate a description as it could be for the following reasons:-
1. The vast majority of the money value of my complaint is based upon service 
charge values and not ground rent values. The ground rent financial value is 
minor in comparison.
2. Accordingly, the continual reference to ground rent only including the most recent 
revised expanded definition, is not strictly accurate.
3. Also, whilst the ground rent charge is a Freeholder charge it is less clear if the 
service charge is a Freeholder charge.
4. It could be that the Ombudsman is aware of the subtle definition differences but 
in case this matter becomes a point of contention in the future I am recording this 
distinction again now.I can reassure Mr D that Im aware of the difference between ground rent and service 
charges, and would point out that Ive not revised the use of the term as every mention of 
that payment in my provisional decision on our jurisdiction (issued in July 2020) refers to it 
as either ground rent (and other freeholder charges) or ground rent and other freeholder 
charges. How much was for unpaid ground rent and how much was for unpaid service 
charges (or any other unpaid freeholder charge) isnt relevant here because, as Ive 
explained, Im not considering that part of Mr Ds complaint due to the fact an ombudsman 
colleague previously issued a decision on it in February 2019. 
As Mr D is aware, the terms and conditions of his account allow Nationwide to make certain 
payments if its security is at risk. The further £4,034.40 payment in question was only made 
after Mr D had been through the Tribunal and his appeal had been refused. Nationwide 
wrote to Mr D to say it would be making the payment, but because he contacted it within a 
few days it placed the payment on hold whilst it looked into things. As it was then satisfied 
the payment needed to be made it did so, adding the sum (plus an admin charge) to Mr Ds 
mortgage account.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold any part of Mr Ds complaint. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of the complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman