DRN-3842075
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money they lost in 
a scam. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have a joint account with HSBC. As it was Mr L that fell victim to the scam, Ill 
mainly refer to him in this decision. 
What Mr and Mrs L say
Mr L says that he fell victim to a parcel delivery phishing scam and provided some personal 
information and account details when he made a small payment.
A few weeks later Mr L noticed some missed calls from an HSBC number and so called the 
number to find out what was happening. The call was answered by HSBC. During the call Mr 
L expressed frustration that HSBC had called that day and the day before but when he 
called back HSBC couldnt tell him what the call was about. The advisor said she couldnt 
see anything, but it was possibly a call about potential fraud, so she agreed to transfer Mr L 
to the fraud team. Mr L didnt proceed with a conversation with the fraud team though. 
Shortly afterwards Mr L received a call from the same number as the missed calls (and the 
number Mr L had called). Given his earlier call to HSBC on the same number, Mr L believed 
the call was from HSBC. The caller knew information about Mr L and went through a form of 
security before asking him about attempted transactions on his account. Mr L confirmed he 
hadnt made the payments and was told his account was at risk. The caller also knew details 
of Mrs Ls account and said thered been an attempted transfer from it.  Mr L was told that 
the attempted payments had been held for checks and the only way to stop them altogether 
was to move funds to a temporary account so that funds wouldnt be available in his usual 
account. The interim account would be randomly generated, and the funds would later be 
returned to Mr L. 
Funds were transferred from Mrs Ls account and then Mr L made the payments the caller 
told him to make from their joint account. He made two payments of £7,710.12. The next two 
payments of £2,289.88 and £4,367.62 were later reversed. 
The call dropped and at this stage Mr L saw a message from HSBC and realised hed been 
the victim of a scam. He called HSBC to report what had happened. Mr L thinks HSBC didnt 
do enough to warn him about safe account scams or to recover his funds. 
What HSBC say
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board (LSB) Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM Code) and considered Mr and Mrs Ls claim under it. Having done so, HSBC 
decided not to reimburse them. It said that Mr L ignored effective warnings and that he didnt 
do enough to verify who the caller was before making the payments. Mr L wasnt happy with 
HSBCs response and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in full. This 
was because HSBC hadnt demonstrated that any of the exceptions to reimbursement set 
out in the CRM Code could reasonably be applied. In particular, Mr L reasonably believed 
the call was from his genuine bank and hadnt ignored an effective warning. In any event, the 
investigator felt that HSBC should have intervened and discussed the out of character 
payments with Mr and Mrs L and had it done so, the scam would have been uncovered.  
Mr and Mrs L accepted the investigators view, but HSBC did not. In summary, it said:
- Mr L acted carelessly in choosing the friends and family payment option when there 
was an unexpected request from your bank option. 
- The new payee warning and friends and family warning it provided at the time of 
payment were effective in accordance with the CRM Code. The new payee warning 
specifically said that HSBC will never ask a customer to move money, but criminals 
will. 
- The CRM Code requires HSBC to take reasonable steps to provide a customer with 
an effective warning and an electronic warning in the payment journey meets that 
requirement. This service needs to be realistic in applying the CRM Code and 
shouldnt expect perfection based on hindsight. HSBC isnt required to avoid a scam 
but should make a customer aware of reasonable steps they should take to reduce 
the risk of falling victim to one. 
- The warning provided was specific as it specifically mentions safeguarding and in 
light of the mandatory language used Mr L acted unreasonably by not calling HSBC 
before moving funds. The request to call HSBC on the number on the back of Mr Ls 
card ought to have positively impacted his decision-making. There is a large amount 
of wording in the warning because HSBC identified several scam risks. 
- The warning given also referred Mr L to HSBCs fraud centre. The LSB in its paper 
on adherence to the CRM Code in September 2022 saw using links like this as a 
positive development.
- The investigator said Mr L was coached to choose the friends and family payment 
reason, but this is not what he told HSBC.  
As the parties dont agree, the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In a conversation with the investigator Mr L suggested he hadnt authorised the scam 
payments although at other points said he had. Ive seen evidence from HSBC that satisfies 
me that Mr L authorised both transactions although I accept that at the time, he didnt know 
he was paying a scammer.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  
HSBC says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case. It says that Mr L ignored 
an effective warning it gave during the payment journey, and he made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for belief that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the 
payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person or business he was 
transacting with was legitimate.
Having considered the evidence, I am satisfied that under the terms of the CRM Code, 
HSBC should have refunded the money Mr and Mrs L lost.  I am not persuaded any of the 
permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case and will 
explain why.
Reasonable basis for beliefIm satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Mr L lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
- When Mr L saw he had missed some calls from an HSBC number he called HSBC 
back on that same number. He got through to a genuine HSBC advisor and asked 
why hed been called. The advisor wasnt able to identify why HSBC might have 
called Mr L and said the calls might have related to a potentially fraudulent payment. 
Mr L then received a call from the same number hed previously received calls from 
which he had already verified was HSBC. In the circumstances, I think he acted 
reasonably in believing the scam call was from HSBC. The fact that the number was 
spoofed, and Mr L had called his genuine bank from the same number not long 
before, were the main reasons he fell victim to this scam. At no point did HSBC warn 
Mr L about number spoofing.
- Although Mr L didnt realise it at the time, he provided personal details to a scammer 
when he fell victim to a phishing scam a few weeks before the safe account scam. So 
when Mr L received the scam call the scammer knew information about him including 
his name, address and account details and took Mr L through a security process. 
This helped to persuade Mr L that the call was genuine. 
- Whilst I dont consider Mr L was vulnerable as set out in the CRM Code Im mindful 
that he has a medical condition that he discussed with HSBC when he discussed the 
scam that likely impacted his decision-making at the time of the scam. The CRM 
Code refers to all the circumstances at the time including the characteristics of the 
customer, so I think Mr Ls condition is relevant when deciding if he had a reasonable 
basis for believing he received a call from his bank asking him to transfer funds. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr and Mrs L ignored an effective warning when setting up 
the payee or making the payments. 
Effective warning
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about the warning it gave. HSBC say 
that when Mr L made the first payment request, he was presented with a new payee warning 
that said:
FRAUD ALERT: Dont fall victim to a scam. Criminals pretend to be people you trust, like a 
company youd pay bills to, HSBC or even the police. 
HSBC will never ask you to move money, but criminals will. Find out more at our Fraud and 
Security Centre.
During the payment journey Mr L was given a warning based on the payment reason he 
chose  paying friends and family. This warning covered a number of potential scam risks 
and was lengthy. The relevant section for this complaint said:
Do not proceed if you are being asked to move money for safeguarding purposes. Call 
HSBC using the number on the back of your card to verify the request.
HSBC say it didnt provide a warning in respect of the second payment, but the same 
warning applied. 
The warnings Mr L was provided with included some useful information, such as the fact that 
criminals can pretend to be from trusted organisations including HSBC and that HSBC will 
never ask someone to move money. But neither warning was prominent. The new payee warning was in ordinary font and didnt require Mr L to click anything to move on from it. The 
relevant wording in the friends and family warning was some way into a lengthy warning. 
I dont consider the warnings Mr L saw went far enough to bring to life the common features 
of the scam he fell victim to and positively influence his decision making. There wasnt 
enough information to bring to life what this type of scam looks and feels like, so it didnt 
resonate with Mr L when he made the payment. For example, the warnings didnt mention 
that numbers can be spoofed or appear to be genuine numbers. This is particularly important 
in this case, as Mr L called his genuine bank after receiving missed calls from the same 
number. And the warnings dont mention being told an account is at risk meaning action 
needs to be taken. 
The relevant wording within the friends and family warning isnt prominent and refers to 
being asked to move money for safeguarding purposes. I dont consider this term to be 
clear. In any event, Mr L thought he had verified the number shortly before making the scam 
payments as hed called the same number and spoken to a genuine HSBC advisor. So I can 
see why the warning didnt influence his decision making at the time of making the 
payments. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr L was provided with an effective warning and so HSBC hasnt 
been able to show that he ignored an effective warning when making the payments.
Should HSBC have done more to protect Mr and Mrs L?
As well as its responsibilities under the CRM Code, HSBC should fairly and reasonably have 
had systems in place to look out for unusual and out of character transactions or other signs 
that might indicate a customer was at risk of fraud (among other things). 
I dont consider the two payments to be significantly unusual or out of character given Mr 
and Mrs Ls normal account and payment history. In January 2022, a few months before the 
payments, there were two payments of £10,000 each that appear on their bank statement on 
consecutive days. The significance of this finding is that interest should be paid from the 
date HSBC made its decision under the CRM Code rather than from the date of payment. 
Recovery
Mr L says HSBC didnt do enough to recover his funds. Ive listened to a call in which an 
HSBC advisor tried to contact the receiving bank soon after the scam was reported but the 
lines were closed. Advice was given about alternative methods of contacting the receiving 
bank, but I cant see that an alternative way was used until the following day.  
I consider HSBC should have contacted the receiving bank sooner so have considered 
whether doing so would have made a difference to the amount that could be recovered. 
Information this service has obtained from the receiving bank shows that even if HSBC had 
contacted it sooner no further funds could have been recovered as the funds were moved 
out of the receiving account within minutes. Scammers often move funds out of accounts 
quickly to avoid them being claimed back. So whilst I agree that HSBC could have done 
more, Im not making an award because earlier action wouldnt have made a difference in 
this case. 
Interest
Before the scam, when funds were transferred from Mr and Mrs Ls joint current account, 
£3,000 was transferred into the account from a joint savings account and £13,915.89 from 
Mrs Ls current account. I consider that were it not for the scam the funds would have 
remained where they were. So Mr and Mrs L should receive account interest rate on £3,000 
moved from their joint savings account and 8% simple per year on the remaining amount lost 
in the scam. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank plc to:
- Refund Mr and Mrs L the £15,420.24 they lost in the scam less any amount already 
recovered and returned to them. 
- Pay interest on £3,000 at the rate that applied to Mr and Mrs Ls joint savings 
account and 8% simple per year on the balance from the date HSBC should have 
refunded Mr and Mrs L under the CRM Code to the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman