DRN-2377109
The complaint
Miss F complains about end of contract charges when her hire purchase agreement with 
PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) ended.
What happened
In October 2015 Miss F was supplied with a new car and she entered into a finance 
agreement with PSA. At the end of the agreement, the car was inspected as Miss F intended 
on returning the car. Miss F called PSA in October 2019 and made the payment of £120 
towards damages. Miss F says that during the call, PSA informed her that there was nothing 
left to pay. Miss F then received a letter on 23 December 2019 that said her account had 
been passed to an external debt agency due to unpaid excess mileage fees. Miss F found 
the content of the letter unacceptable considering that PSA didnt contact her prior to this. 
Miss F remains unhappy about the way PSA handled this situation and she wants any 
adverse data to be removed from her credit file. 
PSA sent two final response letters to Miss F regarding this matter. The final response dated 
28 January 2020 said that under the terms of the agreement, Miss F was required to return 
the car within the agreed mileage allowance. As this had been exceeded, the excess 
charges had been correctly applied. The final response dated 11 February 2020 added that 
Miss F exceeded her allowance by 14,116 miles and owed PSA £1,411,60. PSA were 
unable to retrieve the call recording that took place where they allegedly told Miss F that 
nothing else was outstanding. 
As they were unable to determine what was said to Miss F about the mileage, they 
apologised for any confusion that may have been caused. They said it is unlikely that Miss F 
would not have been aware of the additional charges as they had sent her a letter in 
November 2019 which clarified this. PSA also said that they would contact all the credit 
reference agencies to ensure no adverse data was recorded on Miss Fs credit file. They 
concluded that the complaint was not upheld, and the charges were correctly owed. 
One of our investigators here looked into this matter and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator acknowledged that Miss F was not disputing the charges. But the way in which 
this was handled. Based on the balance of probabilities, the investigator felt that PSA may 
have told Miss F that there was nothing else to pay once she had settled the damage 
charges in October 2019. The investigator was unable to see any prior letters that had been 
sent to Miss F regarding the excess mileage charges. And therefore, she could understand 
why the letter from the external debt agency would have caused Miss F trouble and upset. 
The investigator concluded that although the excess mileage fee has been correctly applied, 
PSA shouldve sent her prior notification of the fees. Based on this, the investigator awarded 
£150 compensation for the way in which this matter was handled by PSA.
PSA responded to the view and said that they sent Miss F an invoice on 23 October 2019 for 
the sum of £1,651.60. The invoice included the amount for the damage and the excess 
mileage charges. As some damage charges were paid by Miss F, a reminder letter was sent 
to her on 9 November 2019 about the remaining charges. PSA said that they made a 
reasonable effort to bring this matter to her attention and therefore wanted the additional 
information to be reviewed by our investigator. 
Our investigator reviewed the additional information and felt that PSA had provided enough 
evidence that showed they had informed Miss F about the excess mileage charges. For 
these reasons, the investigator felt that PSA were no longer required to pay £150. However, 
the investigators view remained unchanged about the incorrect advice PSA had initially 
given to Miss F where they said that there was nothing else to pay. Based on the distress 
and inconvenience this caused, the investigator awarded £100.  
PSA responded to the second view and said that in the absence of a call recording, there is 
no evidence that they have given Miss F the incorrect information. And as such, it would be 
inappropriate to award Miss F the £100 compensation. PSA requested that this matter is 
reviewed by an Ombudsman. So, this matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
When deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about whether PSA 
provided enough information to Miss F that would make her aware of any excess mileage 
charges that were due. Ive also thought about the way in which this matter has been 
handled by PSA when Miss F had informed them about the advice, she had received from 
them. 
The terms of the Hire Purchase agreement which Miss F entered into says she can travel up 
to 6,000 miles each year.  As the contract was over a period of 47 months, Miss F would 
have been able to travel 23,500 miles in total. Ive looked at the inspection report dated 8 
October 2019 which says that Miss F travelled 37,616 miles in total.  The Hire Purchase 
agreement says that any additional mileage will be charged at a rate of 10 pence per mile. 
As Miss F exceeded her total allowance by 14,116 miles, PSA applied an excess mileage 
charge of £1,411.60. Given that Miss F has signed the agreement, it would be reasonable to 
say that she wouldve had some awareness of the terms that she was entering into. 
Prior to the agreement coming to an end, Ive seen that PSA wrote to Miss F on 4 June 
2019, 3 August 2019 and 17 September 1019. The content of the letters provides Miss F 
with information on how to return the car. The letter dated 4 June 2019 also specified as 
long as youve made all your payments, the vehicle is in good condition and you havent 
gone over your mileage allowance, therell be nothing more to pay. The letter dated 17 
September 2019 says that any additional mileage will be charged at 10 pence per mile. This 
shows that PSA have made a reasonable attempt to make Miss F aware of any excess 
mileage charges that may be applied once her agreement came to an end in October 2019. 
As the agreement was coming to an end, the car was inspected on 8 October 2019 for any 
damages to the car. Ive already said that the odometer reading showed a mileage of 37,616 
at the that time. Ive seen that PSA sent Miss F an invoice on 23 October 2019 for the 
excess mileage charges and the damage charge. The excess mileage charge amounted to 
£1,411.60 and £240 was for a damage. Upon receiving this invoice, Miss F had followed up 
with a call to PSA. PSA have confirmed that Miss F had paid £120 towards the damages. As Miss F made a 
payment of £120, the call notes say that PSA agreed to remove the corrosion charges 
amounting to £120. Miss F says, that it was at this point that PSA had said no further amount 
was due. In the absence of a call recording, PSA have said that that without proof, they cant 
be held responsible for any confusion that may have been caused. Ive thought very carefully 
about what is likely to have been said at the time. Ive based my finding on a balance of 
probabilities. As Miss F made a payment of £120 towards a damage, this shows a conscious 
effort to clear off the amount she owed. Her actions beyond this point in time would indicate 
that she was convinced that the matter had been settled. Having reviewed the call note 
supplied by PSA, I wouldve expected to see a note that explained why Miss F didnt pay the 
full invoice if shed been told on the call that there was an outstanding amount due. It seems 
from the call note that the agent may have only spoken about the damage charges. On that 
basis, I can see why Miss F may have been under the impression that the matter was 
settled. 
Although Im satisfied that PSA sent a follow up letter regarding the outstanding excess 
mileage in November 2019 to the correct address. Im unsure as to why Miss F hasnt 
received this. The reason as to why I find Miss Fs testimony plausible here is because once 
the matter regarding the outstanding charges had been clarified, Miss F accepted 
responsibility towards this. This tells me that her testimony is plausible whereby she didnt 
receive the letter. And on that basis, when she received the letter explaining that an external 
agency would be pursuing her for the debt, she wouldve been distressed. I find that PSA 
must acknowledge that there may have been mis-communication from there end where by 
Miss F thought that there was nothing left to pay.  
Overall, Im satisfied that PSA have applied the excess mileage charges correctly. During a 
call made to PSA, theyve confirmed that the outstanding amount owed by Miss F would be 
£1,411.60, which is correct. I would say that PSA have also done enough to make Miss F 
aware of the potential charges that may be applied up until the telephone call with them 
where the error was made. The steps taken by PSA in regard to not reporting any adverse 
data to any credit reference agency seems to be fair within the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
However, once PSA found out about the confusion regarding the excess charges, they 
couldve done more to acknowledge the distress this matter had caused. As Miss F didnt 
receive the follow up excess mileage letters from PSA, I can understand why the letter 
stating that an external debt agency will recover money caused a significant amount of 
distress. Because Miss F acted upon the advice given to her from PSA, the letter wouldve 
been quite worrying. PSA shouldve acknowledged the level of distress. On that basis, it 
seems fair to me to ask PSA to pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this decision and require PSA Finance UK Limited 
to: 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset thats been caused due to the 
miscommunication regarding the excess mileage fee
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman