DRN-2830519
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very (Very), in 
relation to a MacBook purchased on the Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) scheme.
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in great detail here. But broadly summarised, Mrs G purchased a MacBook on 
the BNPL scheme. The BNPL was due to end on 20 April 2020. On 26 March 2020 Mrs G 
paid for several items outstanding on the BNPL scheme via credit card, and this included 
£755.62 which cleared the amount owed for the MacBook. 
Mrs G says that sometime after this, the MacBook became faulty. Mrs G says she contacted 
Very about this, but a collection of the MacBook never happened. As a result Mrs G raised a 
chargeback through her bank for the amount of £755.62 in July 2020. Very didnt contest the 
chargeback so Mrs G received £755.62 back from her bank. Very then amended her 
account to show that she now owed it £755.62 and wrote out to her in early August 2020 to 
confirm the amount now owed.
Mrs G says she didnt receive the letter. And on 3 September 2020, Mrs G called Very to 
query why her statement says she owed £755.62. Mrs G was concerned that the full amount 
would also be taken by direct debit. The adviser was unsure as to what the amount was for 
and advised Mrs G to cancel the direct debit while the matter was investigated. The adviser 
also explained to Mrs G that nothing would happen while the matter was being investigated.
However, a default notice was applied because of the missed payment and arrears, and a 
block was placed on the account which meant some orders Mrs G placed didnt go through. 
Mrs Gs credit limit was also reduced.
Mrs G complained to Very about the matter. Very responded on 7 October 2020 and on 
23 November 2020. Broadly summarised, across both responses, it advised that it 
considered it had followed the correct procedures and Mrs Gs outstanding amount of 
£755.62 was correct. But Very also advised it had amended Mrs Gs credit file regarding the 
arrears and offered £20 in recognition of the block that was placed on the account. It also 
explained with regard to the reduced credit limit that under the terms and conditions of the 
account the limit can be revoked, reduced or increased at its discretion.   
Unhappy, Mrs G brought the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked at 
everything and didnt uphold the complaint and considered Very had acted fairly.
Mrs G disagreed with the investigators opinion and requested the complaint be looked at by 
an ombudsman. So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
In this case, I will be looking to see whether I consider Very has acted fairly in its dealings 
with Mrs G.
The crux of this complaint is the MacBook purchased under the BNPL scheme. Mrs G paid 
for the item on 26 March 2020 prior to the BNPL timeframe expiring.
Mrs G says the MacBook developed a fault and that she tried to arrange for this to be 
collected / returned without success.
Very has provided its customer contact notes and I can see that towards the end of May / 
start of June 2020 Mrs G had contacted Very about another item which was collected. But 
there arent any contact notes showing there was any communication about the MacBook. 
Mrs G then subsequently raised a chargeback for the amount of £755.62. Very has advised 
that its process isnt to challenge a chargeback unless fraud is suspected, and this wasnt 
the case here. So Mrs Gs chargeback was successful, and she received £755.62 back. 
Very then wrote out to Mrs G in early August 2020 to advise that she now owed it £755.62. 
Mrs G hadnt returned the MacBook and had now had £755.62 returned to her via the 
chargeback. So I think it was correct for the outstanding balance to be owed to Very. I 
understand that Mrs G says she didnt receive Verys letter. But I dont think that changes 
anything. Mrs G had completed a chargeback and had received the money back and was 
also still in possession of the MacBook. So reasonably Mrs G should have understood that 
she either needed to make arrangements to pay for the outstanding amount owed for the 
MacBook or to contact Very if she wanted the MacBook returned for fixing, a replacement or 
a refund.
I appreciate there was some confusion when Mrs G called on 3 September 2020. Mrs G was 
worried about the amount that was due to come out via direct debit and didnt know what it 
was for. I think had the adviser spent a little while longer looking at Mrs Gs statements and 
what had happened then the amount, and what is was for, would have most likely become 
clear. But I am also mindful that Mrs G should have reasonably been aware what the amount 
was most likely for. Mrs G had said the MacBook had developed faults, and as a result 
completed a chargeback and had had correspondence from her bank about the chargeback 
and the amount of £755.62. I note that Mrs G does accept that she didnt piece together the 
information at the time  and that is understandable. I think Mrs G was genuinely worried 
about the amount that was about to debited from her account  so her focus was on that.
The adviser did explain to Mrs G to cancel the direct debit, and that Mrs G wouldnt be 
penalised. But at this point, Mrs Gs account already had a block and also the resulting 
outstanding amount did lead to Mrs G credit file being affected. So things had gone wrong 
here. However I am mindful that the block was lifted with Very offering £20 to recognise the 
inconvenience. And Very also amended Mrs Gs credit file regarding the arrears. I think this 
is fair in the circumstances as had there been better communication Mrs G likely wouldnt 
have had the arrears as she would have paid the amount which she did once she knew what 
it was for. So overall, I think it was fair of Very, and the right thing for it to do, in lifting the 
block and amending / repairing Mrs Gs credit file.
I do appreciate that Very reduced Mrs G credit limit, however under the terms and conditions 
of the account it is allowed to do so. Overall, it seems the chargeback caused the confusion  but I havent found that Very acted 
unfairly in its dealings with Mrs G. Once the chargeback was raised, Very didnt contest it  
and it is important to point out that it didnt have to. This meant the money claimed through 
the chargeback was returned to Mrs G by her bank. But that also meant Mrs G did then owe 
an outstanding amount to Very for the MacBook which hadnt been returned and was still in 
her possession. Very then amended Mrs Gs account to reflect what was now owed and it 
was right to do so. It is unfortunate that Mrs G didnt receive the letter from Very in regard to 
what she owed, but I am satisfied it was sent. It is also unfortunate that when Mrs G called 
Very, neither Mrs G or the adviser were able to work out what the amount was for, and why it 
was now payable, which I certainly think would have helped matters at that time. 
But overall, Mrs G paid the outstanding amount and Very amended her credit file regarding 
any arrears and lifted the block on the account. From reading Mrs Gs correspondence she 
has said she is likely to terminate her account with Very as she feels the relationship has 
broken down. Im sorry to hear this, because as I say it appears the confusion stemmed from 
the chargeback that was raised. But ultimately it is Mrs Gs choice as to whether she wishes 
to continue to have an account with Very.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman