DRN-2779418
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) have provided an 
incorrect cash settlement following a claim on their building warranty. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W bought a new home that came with a ten-year building warranty provided by 
NHBC. Within the first two years of living in the house they noticed a number of snagging 
issues that they raised with NHBC. 
NHBC produced a resolution report requiring the original builders to carry out repair work 
before 7 June 2019. However some of the work wasnt completed and NHBC took over the 
work, as required under the warranty. 
One of the areas where problems were identified was to do with insulation. NHBC identified 
several repairs that were needed both in the garage and other rooms in the house. This 
included a new vapour control layer on the roof of the garage and repairs to the insulation in 
the walls of the garage. 
NHBC offered a cash settlement for the work to repair the insulation problems. However Mr 
W requested that the work specifically in the garage is separated from the work required in 
the house. NHBC agreed and issued a scope of works for the two repairs required in the 
garage, along with a cash settlement of £163.15 for this work. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt think this was fair and complained. They said NHBC had previously 
confirmed the cash settlement would be around £340, so they didnt understand why the 
offer had been reduced.
NHBC didnt uphold the complaint. It said the cash settlement was the right amount for the 
work just in the garage. It explained it had previously quoted larger amounts that included 
insulation work required in the main house. So this may have been what Mr and Mrs W were 
referring to.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They said they had been told on the phone they would get 
around £340 for the work in the garage, so they didnt think it was fair they were now getting 
less. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he had seen the scope 
of works for the repairs in the garage and was satisfied that the cash settlement offered was 
fair based on that. He said NHBC had said that if the actual cost of the work had been higher 
than the offer, then it would re-consider its offer on receipt of an invoice for the work.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept our investigators opinion. They said there were inaccuracies in 
costs included in the scope of works from NHBC which suggests it is incorrect. And they 
maintained that around £340 had been confirmed to them on the phone as the cash 
settlement amount. They asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have made a number of complaints about their claim with NHBC. This 
complaint relates only to the cash settlement amount offered for repairs to the garage. So I 
will only comment on this element of the claim in this decision. 
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the cash settlement that has been offered for the repairs to 
their garage. NHBC has offered £163.15, when they say it confirmed the cost was around 
£340 previously. 
I have looked at the correspondence between Mr and Mrs W and NHBC. I can see that 
before the cash settlement was agreed a number of other offers were discussed. This 
included amounts for repairs to eight areas of the main house that had insulation problems. 
And additional insulation required in the coombs area of the attic roof. 
On 13 December 2019 Mr W requested additional costs to be added to the settlement for the 
installation to the coomb roof of the attic. NHBCs contractor confirmed that the combined 
amount for the insulation and vapor control layer in the garage, and the coomb roof repairs 
would be £345.39.
On 7 January 2020 Mr W called NHBCs contractor to confirm the amount for the cash 
settlement. Ive listened to this call and I can hear that the contractor confirmed it would be 
£345.39 and listed the work this would cover  as Ive detailed above.
However after this date Mr W requested that the cash settlement be separated  and to only 
cash settle the repair work required in the garage. This meant NHBC offered a settlement 
only for the two elements that were in the garage  the vapor control layer and the repairs to 
the insulation. It offered a reduced cash settlement of £163.15 based on this work alone. 
So while I can understand why Mr and Mrs W may have been under the impression the cash 
settlement would be a larger amount, this was because Mr W requested the amount be 
separated. So the total offered was only for one part of the previous quote.
NHBC has provided a scope of works that shows the two items that the settlement offer 
covers. This shows the amount it would cost it to complete the work. 
The warranty states as follows:
If we have to pay for a claim you make, we will calculate the amount we will pay based on
the amount it will cost us to have the work done.
As NHBC has shown it would cost it £163.15 to carry out the work, Im satisfied that it has 
offered a fair cash settlement.
I note Mr W has raised concerns about the reliability of the scope of works. He says he has 
received a further scope of works from NHBC more recently, relating to repairs elsewhere in 
the house. He has pointed out that the same material was used, but it was at a higher price 
than quoted in the scope provided for the cash settlement. He says this shows that the cash 
settlement wouldnt be enough.
I understand Mr Ws concerns and I have raised these with NHBC. It has confirmed that the 
price of the material increased by 36p per square metre in June 2020. And as the first scope was issued in April 2020 and the other issued in September that year, Im satisfied that this 
explains the discrepancy. And as NHBC based the cash settlement on the cost of the 
material at the time, I think this was a fair offer.
Further, NHBC has confirmed that if Mr and Mrs W have paid more than the cash settlement 
for the work, then it will re-consider its offer.  It says Mr and Mrs W should provide proof of 
the cost of the items included in the settlement for it to review. As this is above what the 
policy requires, I think this is fair in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs W should contact NHBC 
directly to arrange this.  
For these reasons, Im satisfied that NHBC has acted fairly in the circumstances. So I wont 
require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman