DRN-2100271
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the way that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled a 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy and with the settlement of that claim.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs T were on holiday when Mrs T became very unwell with 
pneumonia. She was taken to a local hospital and then admitted to the Intensive Care Unit. 
She was repatriated to the UK via air ambulance. 
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the way the claim was handled. They said that at one point 
IPA were looking to move Mrs T to a different hospital, even though she was very unwell. 
They were also unhappy with the air ambulance that was arranged and the decision to 
repatriate Mrs T at that point in time. 
IPA declined to cover the claim in full because they said that Mrs T hadnt declared all of her 
pre-existing medical conditions and, had she done so, shed have needed to pay a higher 
premium for cover. They said she should have declared fibroids, a urinary tract infection 
(UTI) and bursitis. So they agreed to cover around 83% of the total costs, meaning Mr and 
Mrs T were responsible for the balance. Mr and Mrs T dont think that IPA has acted fairly 
because they think IPA has mis-understood Mrs Ts medical history and has failed to pass 
on a discount on their portion of the costs. Mr T says he is unsure whether hes paid the 
correct amount to settle his part of the bill. 
IPA offered Mr and Mrs T £50 compensation for a delay in arranging Mr Ts hotel whilst they 
were abroad. They said that the concerns in relation to the air ambulance company would 
need to be raised with the company directly, given the nature of Mr and Mrs Ts concerns. 
And they said their decision to offer a proportionate settlement was fair because had Mrs T 
declared all her medical conditions theyd have charged a higher premium. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think it was unreasonable for IPA 
to pay a proportion of the claim because he was satisfied Mrs T should have declared some 
existing medical conditions when she took out the policy. He also thought that IPA had acted 
reasonably when deciding to repatriate Mrs T back to the UK and had done so after a full 
review of the medical evidence. The investigator also explained what IPA had paid for and 
how it had been calculated. And he asked IPA to send Mr T a claim form so that they could 
assess a further claim for some outstanding costs. Overall, he didnt think that IPA needed to 
do anything further to put things right. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. Mr T explained that one of Mrs Ts conditions is very common 
and hadnt been diagnosed or treated. He provided further medical evidence from Mrs Ts 
GP and medical records. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from what Mr and Mrs T have told us, and the other information Ive seen, that they 
had an incredibly frightening and distressing experience when Mrs T became unwell abroad. 
I dont doubt that it caused them both a great deal of distress and worry.
The non-disclosure of medical conditions
IPA says Mr and Mrs T incorrectly answered medical questions which they were asked
when they bought their policy. This means the law set out in the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and I think its fair and
reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered when deciding whether a
consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the
insurer were. 
Mr and Mrs T were asked several questions when taking out their policy in December 2018. 
These included the following;
Within the last 2 years, have you or anyone in your party: 
been prescribed medication, or received treatment or attended a medical
practitioners surgery 
attended a hospital or clinic as an out-patient or in-patient?
been currently put on a waiting list for treatment or investigation?
IPA says, in response to these questions, Mr and Mrs T should have told them about a UTI, 
bursitis and fibroids. In deciding whether I think Mr and Mrs T took reasonable care in 
answering these questions, Ive reviewed Mrs Ts medical records and Ive also considered 
what she has told us about her medical history. 
I think Mr and Mrs W should have told IPA about Mrs Ts fibroids in response to the 
questions they were asked. During 2018 Mrs T had a number of investigations in relation to 
abdominal pain. Her medical records show that in February 2018 an ultrasound showed a 
bulky fibroid. A letter from the consultant to Mrs Ts GP in May 2018 refers again to the 
results of the ultrasound showing a fibroid uterus. The consultant decided to defer any 
surgical option until Mrs T had been seen by the gastroenterology department. 
I accept that Mrs T has a condition that affects a lot of people and that, ultimately, her 
fibroids werent considered to be the source of the pain she was experiencing. But the 
medical evidence does suggest it is most likely that the presence of fibroids was confirmed 
and she had a number of investigations and tests over a period of a few months. Ive taken 
into account the letters from the hospital and Mrs Ts GP. He says that there was no 
suggestion of fibroids. But that contradicts the information in Mrs Ts medical notes which 
Ive referred to. So, having taken all of the above into account, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for IPA to conclude Mrs T should have disclosed information about the 
investigations and fibroids when answering the questions Ive set out above. Therefore, I 
think Mr and Mrs T did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA  in relation to the 
fibroids.I dont think I need to make a finding about whether Mr and Mrs T failed to disclose the UTI 
because I dont think it impacts upon the outcome of this complaint. Thats because if Mrs T 
had disclosed both the UTI and the fibroids, together with the bursitis, it didnt impact on the 
cost of the policy. So, ultimately, it doesnt impact on the settlement of the claim.  
As Mr and Mrs T made a qualifying misrepresentation, IPA is entitled to apply the relevant
remedy available to it under CIDRA. This says that, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if 
the insurer would still have entered into the contract but would have charged a higher 
premium, then the insurer is entitled to reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on the 
claim.
Mr and Mrs T paid £76.82 for their insurance policy. IPA has now provided evidence to show 
the premium it would have charged is £91.80. This means Mr and Mrs T have paid 83.68% 
of the premium they should have so, in line with the remedy set out under CIDRA, IPA 
should pay 83.68% of their claim.
Repatriation
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. The policy terms and conditions say: 
If you suffer bodily injury, illness or disease we reserve the right to move you from 
one hospital to another and/or arrange for your repatriation to the United Kingdom at 
any time during the trip or one-way trip. We will do this, if in the opinion of the 
Emergency Assistance Service or us (based on information provided by the medical 
practitioner in attendance), you can be moved safely and/or travel safely to your 
home area or a suitable hospital nearby to continue treatment.
This means, under the terms of the policy IPA has the discretion to decide if Mrs T should be 
repatriated. Im satisfied that IPA acted reasonably in the circumstances of this case for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain. 
Ive reviewed a detailed chronology of what was taking place when IPA was assessing the 
medical options for Mrs T whilst she was abroad, when she was seriously ill. Im satisfied 
that IPA was proactive about ensuring that Mrs T had access to the best, and most suitable 
care, for someone in her circumstances. 
This included, for example, checking that she was at the hospital most suited for her medical 
needs and ensuring a good level of communication between IPAs medical team and the 
hospital. There was some discussion about moving Mrs T to a different hospital in another 
location but this was ruled out on the basis of the seriousness of Mrs Ts condition and the 
type of transfer it would involve.  IPA were also working with the hospitals billing department 
to arrange the appropriate guarantee of payment for the medical expenses, so Mr T didnt 
have to keep making payments.  
Its clear to me that the decision to repatriate Mrs T was not one taken lightly and that senior 
members of the medical team were working to achieve the best outcome for Mrs T. IPA were 
concerned that Mrs Ts condition wasnt improving and she was showing signs of 
complications. There were also a number of discussions with the treating doctor and a 
review of the latest CT scans. The decision to repatriate Mrs T was taken at that point. Im 
satisfied that this was a carefully considered decision, and not one motivated by cost. 
  
Claims handling Mr T has referred to a number of issues with the service he received from IPA but Ill only 
refer to those which I think are central to my decision. 
IPA has offered Mr and Mrs T £50 as they acknowledged that they delayed sorting out a 
hotel for Mr T. I think that fairly reflects the inconvenience caused and so I dont think IPA 
needs to do anything else to put things right. 
Mr T was also unhappy and unclear about the payment of medical expenses. Mr T made a 
large payment to the hospital to cover his contribution to the medical expenses. But, there 
were other costs for the air ambulance and the land ambulance. IPA has agreed to cover 
83.68% of the bill and, for the reasons Ive already explained above, I dont think IPA have 
acted unreasonably by asking Mr and Mrs T to contribute the remainder. 
As the investigator explained there are some further out of pocket expenses that Mr T needs 
to claim for, if he hasnt done so already. Im not addressing those costs in this decision as 
IPA hasnt yet made a decision about whether to cover them. As our investigator explained 
its likely that any further payment will be deducted from the total outstanding balance. But, 
as Mr T hasnt yet made a complaint to IPA about this issue, Im not considering it as part of 
this decision. 
Im satisfied that IPA made appropriate arrangements for Mrs Ts repatriation. Mr T raised 
concerns about the air ambulance and also explained that luggage and medical notes had 
been lost. But IPA hired a professional repatriation service to bring Mrs T home and IPA has 
offered to feedback to the company on the issues of concern Mr T raised. Its not uncommon 
for luggage to be sent separately to the air ambulance due to the availability of space and I 
dont think it is fair to say that IPA is responsible for the medical records being lost in the 
post. I dont think these issues were in their control and Im satisfied they took reasonable 
steps to assist Mr and Mrs T with them once they were made aware of the problems.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman