DRN-3886018
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) have unfairly held him responsible for a credit account in his name that he 
wasnt responsible for.
What happened
Mr C became aware that a number of credit accounts had been opened in his name with 
various financial businesses that indicated he was the victim of identity theft. This complaint 
involves an account opened with BPF.
Mr C received correspondence from BPF that explained hed recently taken a credit 
agreement out via another merchant, to purchase a new phone (Ill refer to them as J). Mr C 
contacted BPF to explain that he wasnt responsible for the application, and he was a victim 
of ID theft.
The credit agreement was set up to take direct debits from Mr Cs account held with another 
financial business which Mr C cancelled. Mr C says he had other agreements taken out in 
his name and received a letter from another finance company confirming hed been the 
victim of identity theft.
BPF investigated Mr Cs claim and declined to refund him. Mr C complained to BPF and 
after several months and numerous attempts by Mr C and his representative to get an 
answer, BPF issued their final response letter explaining why they wouldnt accept Mr Cs 
claim. In their letter, BPF told Mr C that their records showed that Mr C had provided a copy 
of his driving licence and a selfie as part of the application process for the credit 
agreement. Because of this, they believed he was responsible for the agreement and the 
debt that was incurred after the purchase of the phone from J.
Mr C was unhappy with how BPF dealt with his complaint and brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of our 
investigators. Mr C explained that the email address used to open the agreement wasnt his 
and that the letter he received from BPF contained errors in the address. 
BPF provided details about the application which contained the email address (as above) 
and a mobile phone number which was the genuine one used by Mr C, a copy of the 
agreement (signed with an electronic signature) with Mr Cs correct home address, a copy of 
the selfie and Mr Cs driving licence The delivery address was at an educational 
establishment where Mr C was studying at the time.
After considering the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint and Mr C, via 
his representative commented that:
Mr Cs documents couldve been used by others as he was in shared 
accommodation.
BPF shouldnt have agreed to lend money to a student.
The post room (for deliveries) where Mr C was studying had no record of any delivery 
for Mr C.
BPF provided details of the application they received which showed that whoever made it (in 
Mr Cs name), entered that they were self-employed (rather than a student). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF explained that during the application process for the credit agreement, they carried out 
several steps in order to establish that the person who was applying for it was the genuine 
applicant. Included in this was the requirement of the applicant to send a copy of their 
identity document (here a driving licence) along with a selfie to enable the comparison of 
the driving licence to the picture of the person who was applying for the credit. 
Having seen those documents, both the driving licence and the selfie look like the same 
person. The driving licence is in the name of Mr C with his regular home address. Its difficult 
to think how someone other than Mr C could have done this without his knowledge. Ive 
thought about the living arrangements at the time and whilst its possible that Mr Cs 
documents could have been copied, it seems unlikely that a selfie could have been 
obtained without him being aware of it.
Apart from the email address, all the other details, including Mr Cs genuine mobile phone 
number were accurately recorded on the application. When the first letter from BPF was sent 
to Mr C there were some errors in the address ( using Flat and including the word null ) in 
the address. Im not sure why this happened although I dont think it was anything to do with 
the application process because those details record the proper address. In any event I dont 
think those errors relate to whether Mr C was responsible for the application or not.
Mr C was able to produce some documentation showing what had been delivered to the 
postal room where he was studying. This didnt record anything delivered to Mr C on the day 
the delivery documents provided by J said it was delivered. But, Js delivery information 
recorded that it was delivered to the same address where he was studying and the delivery 
was handled by a major delivery company. I dont doubt the item was delivered somewhere 
at the address because Js information includes the time and address it was delivered to. 
Although I cant be sure where within the property it was delivered, the issue here is whether 
Mr C can be held responsible for the credit agreement or not. 
Mr Cs representative made comments about the application process and how a student 
could obtain such credit. Id note here that the application included that Mr C was self - 
employed and the credit agreement was for a relatively modest amount (for a new phone). I 
dont think the considerations by BPF were unreasonable here and the decision to approve 
the agreement appears to have been made following their appropriate process. 
In order for me to uphold this complaint, I would have to be satisfied that Mr C wasnt 
involved in the application for credit. There would have to be a realistic and plausible 
explanation why an unidentified third party could obtain Mr Cs driving licence and a selfie 
of him, the name and account details of his bank account (held with another business) in 
order to set up the direct debit and Mr Cs mobile phone number  all without his knowledge. 
Whilst some of these details could be obtained from the shared accommodation Mr C was in 
at the time, I dont think theres a plausible explanation how a selfie could have been 
obtained without his knowledge, so based on all the available evidence Ive considered, I think its more likely than not that Mr C was responsible for making the application or 
allowing others to do so with his knowledge. It follows that its reasonable for BPF to require 
him to repay the outstanding debt based on the agreement that was entered into. 
BPF have advised that if Mr C is having difficulty with his income (especially considering he 
was in education), then they advise for him to get in touch to arrange a suitable plan to repay 
the funds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman