DRN-3335248
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Volkswagen
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) was misrepresented to him.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint VWFS, but Im expecting to agree with the investigators opinion. But
the redress Im expecting to direct is a little different. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant legislation explains that finance providers are liable for what they say and for
what is said by a credit broker before the consumer takes out the credit agreement. It says
that, in circumstances such as this, anything the supplier says will be deemed to have been
said on behalf of the finance provider. So, If Mr B was given a false statement of fact, and if 
that false statement of fact induced him to enter into a finance agreement he wouldnt 
otherwise have entered into, I would think the agreement had been misrepresented to him 
and Id ask VWFS to take some further action.
Was there a false statement of fact?
Ive seen an email sent by the supplier to Mr B a few days before he entered into the 
agreement. That email confirms the car has wireless Carplay and I think its reasonable to 
assume it was sent to Mr B because hed made that enquiry.
The supplier has now confirmed that the car does not have wireless Carplay. So, I think a 
false statement of fact was made.
Would Mr B have entered into the agreement had it not been for that false statement?
I dont think so because:
Mr B asked about the functionality before signing the agreement and that suggests it 
was an important feature.
Mr B only asked to reject the car when he was informed the function wasnt available.
Mr B was prepared to allow the business an opportunity to retrofit that functionality. I 
think that suggests there werent other reasons he would have wanted to reject the 
car for. It seems he was happy to keep the vehicle if the functionality hed been 
promised was available.
VWFS say its a minor issue and its disproportionate to allow Mr B to reject the car. Theyve 
explained that the functionality was available if the phone was hard wired. Whilst I accept 
others may not have seen the functionality as so important, I think its clear Mr B did. It was, I 
believe, a reason he wouldnt have progressed with the deal and I therefore think VWFS 
should take some further action.
Putting things right
Wed usually aim to put Mr B back in the position he wouldve been in had the error not 
occurred but as the lending here cant be undone thats not entirely possible. 
As Mr B wouldnt have entered into the agreement had it not been for the misrepresentation, 
I dont think its fair for VWFS to charge any interest or charges under the agreement.
Our investigator explained that as Mr B had had use of the car for about eight months when 
he provided his view on the complaint. He thought it was fair for him to pay for those eight 
months of usage.
But Mr B has now had use of the car for longer than that. So, I think he should pay for the 
use hes had from the car since he took receipt of it and until the point this complaint is 
settled. Its for that reason that Im issuing a provisional decision to give VWFS and/or Mr B 
an opportunity to comment.
But Im not persuaded the monthly repayments of over £525 a month that are listed in the 
finance agreement are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. This is because a 
significant proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest. As the 
investigator has set out, there isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair monthly 
repayment would be to reflect Mr Bs usage. So, Ive thought about the amount of interest 
charged on the agreement, Mr Bs likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay 
mobile would likely have been if he didnt have this car. I think a fair amount Mr B should pay 
is £430 for each month he had use of the car.
I think its clear that Mr B has also been a little inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to
escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier and Im
therefore expecting to ask VWFS to pay him £100 in compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
Cancel the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay.
Refund any deposit Mr B paid and add 8% interest* per year from date of payment todate of settlement.
Calculate how much Mr B has paid in total and deduct £430 for each month he had
use of the car from the date he took receipt of it until the date of settlement. Refund
the difference adding 8% interest* per year from date of payment to date of
settlement.
Pay Mr B £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience experienced.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires VWFS to take off tax from this interest. VWFS must
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr B asks for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision but VWFS didnt. They said it wasnt fair and only 
seemed to appease Mr B. They said theyd be happy to consider a reduction in rentals past 
and future but thought the notion of rejection was disproportionate.
Ive thought about what VWFS have had to say but those submissions havent persuaded 
me to change my provisional decision. As I explained in my provisional decision I do think 
rejection is proportionate here. I accept others may not have seen the functionality as so 
important but I think its clear from the evidence provided that Mr B did. It was, I believe, a 
reason he wouldnt have progressed with the deal. I dont think theres therefore any reason 
to consider an alternative redress.
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any additional evidence that has persuaded me to change my 
provisional decision and that provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
Cancel the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay.
Refund any deposit Mr B paid and add 8% interest* per year from date of payment to
date of settlement.
Calculate how much Mr B has paid in total and deduct £430 for each month he had
use of the car from the date he took receipt of it until the date of settlement. Refund
the difference adding 8% interest* per year from date of payment to date of
settlement.
Pay Mr B £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience experienced.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires VWFS to take off tax from this interest. VWFS must
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr B asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman