DRN-2446975
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a number of 
packaged bank accounts and packs that were added to his account. Mr H is represented 
by a Claims Management Company (CMC). His account history is as follows.
Fee-free Barclays account opened in 1987
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account in May 2000
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions Plus account in April 2005
Migrated to a fee-free Barclays account with fee-paying Tech and Travel Pack in 
January 2017
What happened
Prior to this complaint being brought to this service Barclays refunded the fees that Mr H 
paid for the Additions account with interest in line with this services approach. So given this 
we have not looked into this sale. 
Barclays objected to this service looking at the sale of the Additions Plus account as it 
believed the complaint was brought too late. Mr Hs representatives did not disagree with 
Barclays about this so we have not looked into this aspect of Mr Hs complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into the migration and they concluded that Barclays had not 
done anything wrong during the migration.
Mr Hs representative did not agree as they believed amongst other things that the benefits 
that the packs came with were not sufficiently explained.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should highlight that the change of the account from an Additions Plus to a fee-free 
account with the Tech and Travel pack was not a sale, it was a migration. Barclays 
essentially decided to change the type of accounts it offered, and to withdraw the Additions 
Plus packaged account from its range of accounts.
 
It effectively replaced the benefits that came with the PBA with packs, that were added to a 
standard current account, but gave accountholders the choice of opting out of the packs 
being added, should they no longer need the relevant cover.
 
In this instance, Barclays migrated Mr Hs account to one with a travel pack and a tech 
pack. Between them, the key benefits these packs provided were travel insurance; 
breakdown recovery; mobile phone insurance; gadget insurance; and banking benefits like 
an interest free overdraft. It appears that together they cost Mr H £18 per month. 
As Barclays were making material changes to the account, it was required to notify its 
customers of its change in offering. Barclays wrote to Mr H in September 2016 to let him 
know what would be happening, and again in January 2017 to confirm his account had been 
changed. These letters broadly set out the benefits that the packs came with and were 
accompanied with a more detailed booklet that set out the full details of the benefits. I can 
see that these letters were addressed to Mr Hs current address, so I think its likely they 
were received by him.
I note Mr Hs representatives comments that he did not need all the benefits that the packs 
contained. However, the letters issued by Barclays made it clear that Mr H did not have to 
keep the packs if he did not want them, so it was his choice as to whether to keep them or 
not.
Mr Hs representatives have explained that as this was a migration Mr H believed that the 
packs picked by Barclays reflected Mr Hs needs at the time of the migration. The packs that 
Barclays picked were the same for all Additions Plus account holders and were not tailored 
to the individual. And again I should reiterate that the benefits were highlighted in the letters 
Barclays sent and if the benefits were not suitable for Mr H it was on him to choose whether 
to keep the packs or remove them  after all, he wouldve known better than Barclays if he 
still needed the insurance benefits or not. 
Given this, Barclays has done what it needed to do in relation to this migration and therefore 
I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint, and Barclays doesnt 
need to do anything. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman