DRN-2313646
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 2007. 
Mr F says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr Fs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr Fs representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Fs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Halifax made it clear Mr F didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it. I say 
this because Mr F hasnt said anything to make me think this wasnt made clear. Also, 
his mortgage offer made it clear the PPI policy was optional.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr F, so Halifax had to check it was right for him. And 
the evidence about Mr Fs circumstances at the time shows it wasnt unsuitable for him. 
For example, he was eligible for the cover and what hes told us about his other means 
makes me think he had a need for cover if he couldnt work for a time due to disability or 
unemployment. Also nothing about his employment or occupation wouldve made it hard 
for him to claim. 
Mr F couldnt have claimed for work absences if related to the operation hed had around 
ten years earlier. But, taking into account all hes told us about this and how long before 
the sale it was, I dont think Halifax ought to have considered it likely to cause absences 
such that their exclusion made the cover no longer worth recommending to him  and 
Mr F hasnt told us of having before the sale any other health issues the policy mightve 
excluded. I also think it likely the cover was affordable for Mr F, and I take into account 
that he was given details of the likely cost before he started to pay for it, including details 
of the separate cost of the accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it, and the information he had told him it 
was disability and unemployment cover to help pay his mortgage related costs - so it 
looks to me like he wanted this type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for him, as I concluded 
above  and it seems like it wouldve been useful for him if something went wrong in the 
circumstances it covered. Also Mr F was given details of the cost. 
Overall I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Mr F thought he was 
buying from the information its likely he was given  and, with this and all Ive said above 
in mind, I dont think he wouldve declined it had Halifax done anything more in terms of 
the information it provided.
While the policy contained limitations and exclusions on claims relating to back and 
mental health conditions, in light of Mr Fs circumstances at the time of sale and despite 
its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt unsuitable for him  and I think he 
wouldve still thought he had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mr F wouldve still taken the PPI. Given his circumstances at the time of 
the sale, I think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if he couldnt 
work due to disability or unemployment in the circumstances the policy covered. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely Mr F thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think he wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr Fs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service isnt correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for 
handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the number 
of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and that 
the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of 
making a claim.
Mr Fs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Fs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Im grateful to Mr F for his attention and courtesy throughout our consideration of this matter.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman