DRN-2023010
 
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Shepherd and West Limited (SW) are charging him for a successful 
mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) claim he says they had no authority to make.
What happened
In August 2019, SW received an online application to make a number of mis-sold PPI 
claims, against two different lenders, for Mr D. They submitted the applications and two 
claims against Lender B were successful in January 2020. Mr D received just over £13,000 
compensation and SW invoiced him for their fees.
Mr D has complained that SW had no authority to make any claims on his behalf. He says 
he didnt sign any Letters of Authority (LOAs) and that the signature on the LOAs wasnt his 
 it was obvious someone else had signed it.
Our investigator said that the online application was made from an IP address in Mr Ds area 
and contained his personal details. And neither of the lenders SW made claims against on 
Mr Ds behalf queried his signature on the LOAs. The investigator also said that SW kept Mr 
D updated about his claims by letter, email and telephone call. And Mr D didnt query why 
SW were dealing with a claim he didnt make 
Because of the above, and because SW made the claims on Mr Ds behalf (two of which 
was ultimately successful) the investigator said that SW were entitled to charge their fees.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He said hes never received any letters, emails or 
text messages from SW until they started chasing him for their fees. And any conversations 
he had with SW were purely standard sales talk. Mr D also thinks that his personal details 
used to make the application could very easily be found online, and he maintains that the 
signature on the LOA isnt his. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and while I appreciate 
this will be a disappointment to Mr D; Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
The application to SW was made online and on the basis of an electronic signature. These 
signatures will either be done by a finger or stylus on a touch screen device, such as a smart 
phone or tablet; or done by a mouse/mousepad on a device such as a laptop or desktop 
computer. Because of the nature of these signatures they differ from a wet signature  one 
done by pen on paper.
Mr D has said the signatures on the LOAs dont match his signature. For the reasons given, I 
wouldnt expect and electronic and wet signature to match. But I would expect them to be sufficiently similar that a lender would be able to match them with their records and be 
satisfied that it was signed by the person it was claimed to be signed from.
From what Ive seen, the electronic signature was used on LOAs for claims against two 
different lenders. Ive not seen anything to show me that either of these lenders rejected an 
LOA because of the signature. 
As the investigator explained the, IP address from where the online application was made, 
and from where the electronic signatures were signed, is from a location in the vicinity of Mr 
Ds address. IP addresses dont provide a pinpoint location, only the general vicinity.
So for me to accept that Mr D didnt make the online application to SW, and didnt 
electronically sign the LOAs; it would have to have been done by someone in the general 
vicinity of Mr D, who knew enough of his personal information to be able to make a claim 
(including which lenders hes had accounts with in the past), and could do an electronic 
signature sufficiently similar to Mr Ds that two different lenders would accept it as genuine. I 
dont agree with Mr D that all of the information could be found easily online, and I find it very 
unlikely that this wouldve happened.
Ive seen that SW sent text messages to Mr D confirming that the application had been 
made. The number SW used was the same mobile phone number Mr D has provided to us. 
This was followed up by a claim pack, which included SWs terms and conditions, sent to 
Mr Ds address at the time. 
SWs case notes also show they emailed Mr D updates on his claims to the same email 
address hes told us is his correct email address. The case notes also show that Mr D called 
SW on 26 September 2019, updating his address as hed recently moved. The address SW 
have is the same address Mr S has provided us. And, while Ive not heard this call, I have 
heard a later call between Mr D and SW (after the claims were successful) in which Mr D 
says that hed recently changed address.
I appreciate Mr D says hed not received any contact from SW before the claim was 
successful. And, while its likely a single piece of correspondence wouldnt be received 
(especially a letter during a period of time when someone was moving home), I find it 
unlikely that none of the letters, emails, phone calls and text messages were received.
Whats more, Mr D hasnt said that he made any claims himself or used another claims 
management company to make them for him. But he hasnt indicated that he was surprised 
when a claim he didnt make was successful; only that SW made this claim for him without 
the proper authority.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr D initially instructed SW to act for him. SW 
made the claims theyd been asked to, and they contacted Mr D confirming what they were 
doing. Given this, I agree that SW are entitled to charge a fee in line with the terms Mr D 
agreed to, and SW sent him a copy of. 
SW charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually did. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for 
free. Where a claim was successful, SWs fee may be more or less than the value of the 
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just 
because SWs fee is higher than the value of the work they have done for Mr D doesnt 
make their fee unjustified.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Shepherd and West 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman