DRN-4176071
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined a claim she 
made on her income protection policy. 
What happened
Miss B claimed on her income protection policy in December 2020. Shed recently been 
made redundant by her employer. Miss Bs claim related to symptoms of back and neck pain 
shed experienced following an accident in May 2020. Miss B had an unrelated accident at 
home in January 2021 which she says has exacerbated her symptoms.
Legal and General assessed the claim and declined it. Miss B has made a previous 
complaint about that initial decline, and an appeal, which isnt the subject of this complaint. 
This complaint is about Legal and Generals decision not to pay the claim following further 
medical information being provided and a functional capacity evaluation (FCE). Miss B is 
unhappy that there were inaccuracies in the FCE and that the claim still isnt being paid. 
Legal and General said their decision to decline the claim was fair but awarded £250 
compensation for delays.   
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
Legal and General had reasonably relied on the FCE report and reasonably concluded the 
relevant policy definition hadnt been met. He also thought the £250 compensation for delays 
was fair. 
Miss B didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary, she 
said the FCE wasnt fair and she was in too much pain to work. She said she hadnt 
exaggerated her symptoms during the assessment and was still in excruciating pain. Miss B 
also mentioned the policy had been mis-sold and that she wanted her premiums back.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal and General have a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Its for 
Miss B to show she had a valid claim under the policy, not for Legal and General to show 
she doesnt. 
My decision will focus on Legal and Generals decision to decline the claim following the 
FCE report and further medical evidence provided at that time. I cant comment on evidence 
that Legal and General didnt have the opportunity to consider at the relevant time. And, if 
Miss B has concerns about the sale of the policy, then she will need to make a complaint to 
the business that sold her the policy.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Miss Bs claim was assessed on the basis that she must be unable to complete 
three of six activities of daily living. I think Legal and General applied the relevant 
definition of incapacity to Miss Bs circumstances. Miss B was made redundant, 
following a period of being furloughed during the Covid-19 pandemic. At the time 
she claimed on the policy she wasnt working. Therefore, I think Legal and 
General fairly applied the definition relating to a houseperson as Miss B wasnt 
employed or self-employed at the relevant time. 
I think it was reasonable for Legal and General to arrange an FCE, following 
further information being provided from Miss Bs GP. Given the passage of time 
since the initial claim I think that was fair. It was an opportunity to gain a 
meaningful insight into Miss Bs functionality. I also think this was reasonable as 
the further information from the GP didnt address Miss Bs functionality in detail. 
And the GPs letter was based on Miss Bs reporting of her symptoms. 
The FCE was, based on the available evidence, completed by a suitably qualified 
practitioner with appropriate experience to consider Miss Bs symptoms. The 
appointment took place in person, lasted around two and a half hours and 
involved various tests. The report concluded that there was evidence of 
significant symptom exaggeration and that there were inconsistencies and 
discrepancies demonstrated throughout the assessment. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to rely on the report. 
Miss B feels strongly that the report is unfair and incorrect. In particular, shes 
highlighted that the examiner said shed walked to the assessment which wasnt 
right. Ive thought about whether this means the report was as a whole was 
flawed. But, even if there were some inaccuracies, I dont think it detracts from 
the overall conclusions the FCE reached or the overarching credibility of the FCE. 
So, I dont think this means Legal and General relied on the conclusions in the 
report unfairly. 
I appreciate Miss B has more recently received more medical information, 
including the outcome of an MRI scan. But that information wasnt available to 
Legal and General at the time they made their decision to decline the claim. So, I 
cant fairly say their decision to decline the claim was unreasonable based on the 
evidence which was available. 
I think the compensation of £250 in relation to delays and lack of updates is fair 
and reasonable. I think the compensation paid fairly reflects the impact of delays 
on Miss B, at an already worrying time for her.    
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman