DRN-4020474
The complaint
Mr O complains AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) did not offer a fair market 
value for his car when it was written off as a total loss.
What happened
Mr Os car was hit by a third-party vehicle when it was parked in a carpark. The third-party 
did not leave any details.
Mr O made a claim on his motor insurance policy that he held with AA. The claim was 
accepted. AA deemed the car uneconomical to be repaired and so it was classed as a total 
loss.
AA made Mr O an offer of £2,325. Mr O said this was much below his estimation or 
valuation. He said the cars he saw advertised for sale were more than the offer made by AA. 
As Mr O was not happy with AA, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said having 
considered the valuations provided by AA and the valuations obtained themselves they felt 
AAs offer was fair and in line with our approach to vehicle valuation disputes.
As Mr O is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have considered whether AA acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its 
decision as to the level of settlement offered to Mr O following the write-off of his car. My role 
is not to provide an exact valuation but to make a judgment as to whether the offer of 
settlement is fair.
I firstly looked at the details within Mr Os motor insurance policy with AA. In this case within 
the policy terms and conditions on page eight it says; 
Market Value  - The cost of replacing the Insured Car with one of the same make, model, 
age, mileage, specification and condition at the date of accident or loss.
On page nine it says;
The maximum amount payable will be the Market Value of the Insured Car.
Although this service doesnt value vehicles, we do check that the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. We use trade guides 
to do this, and theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices and take the cars 
specifications, mileage etc into account. 
This service doesnt consider the question of market value to be an exact science, however 
our general approach is that the valuations given in the main motor trade guides provide the 
most persuasive and consistent evidence. These guides are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices.
I looked at the information AA used when calculating the market value for Mr Os car. I saw it 
obtained valuations from two of the main trade guides. In this case the two valuations were 
£2,155 and £2,495. AA offered £2,325 which is the average of these two guides.
I looked at the valuations our investigator obtained. He used four of the main trade guides, of 
which two were the same as used by AA. The average of these four valuations was in line 
with the offer of £2,325 made by AA. 
I saw Mr O provided a number of adverts that showed examples of similar cars that were for 
sale at the time the claim was in the process of being settled. They included examples of 
cars of the same brand but different ages and conditions. All of which had an advertised 
sales price of more than £2,325.
As per the terms of Mr Os policy AA only have to offer him market value for the car that has 
been deemed a total loss.
I do accept that prices of used cars can change on a regular basis. This could be an
increase or decrease. This is the reason why we take the approach that if AA can 
demonstrate, as it has done here, that it used a fair process to value the car then we 
wouldn't interfere with the offer it has made.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr O, but for the reasons given Im not 
persuaded that AA have acted unfairly or unreasonably in settling his claim at £2,325. I 
agree the amount paid for Mr Os car is fair and in line with the main trade valuation guides. 
And I cant fairly ask AA to increase its valuation offer.
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Os complaint and do not require AA to do anything further in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman