DRN-3633224
The complaint
Miss Y complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) refused to raise a direct debit 
indemnity claim for her.
What happened
In late 2021 Miss Y contacted Halifax to make an indemnity claim under the Direct Debit 
Guarantee (DDG) scheme; as she said she was unhappy with the services she was 
receiving from a third-party company she had paid via Direct Debit (DD). Miss Y raised a 
complaint with Halifax when it declined to raise a claim under the DDG scheme and brought 
her complaint to our service when Halifax didnt uphold it. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss Ys complaint and didnt uphold it. He said Halifaxs decision 
to decline to raise a claim under the DDG scheme was fair, based on its process and the 
criteria of the scheme.
Miss Y didnt accept our investigators findings. She said she wasnt made aware of the 
terms and conditions of the DDG scheme and that she wouldnt be able to raise a claim. And 
shes said she still disputes the service shes received from the third-party company, so she 
feels she should receive her money back. 
Miss Y asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has provided our service with its process for DDG claims. Ive considered this to see 
what Halifax ought reasonably to be expected to do when a customer requests to make a 
claim under the DDG scheme.
Halifaxs process states a DDG claim in relation to goods or services received is not a valid 
reason under the scheme  and it will therefore be declined, so it wont raise a claim. As 
such Halifax has acted in line with its internal process on DDG claims.
Ive gone on to review the DDG scheme rules on the DD schemes website, to consider if 
Halifaxs approach in the individual circumstances of Miss Ys complaint was reasonable. 
The DD schemes website confirms that valid claims come about from the bank, building 
society or collecting company making an error with the payment of the DD  for example if a 
payment is collected on the incorrect date, or the wrong payment amount is collected. The 
DDG scheme doesnt provide for a claim to be made when goods or services provided are in 
dispute. It states:
The Guarantee covers Direct Debit payments. It cannot be used to address contractual 
disputes between you and the billing organisation. 
If the complaint does not relate to the payment of your Direct Debit, for example you wish to 
complain about a service, product or the underlying contract which you pay for by Direct 
Debit or you disagree with the amount shown on the advance notice, you should refer this to 
the organisation providing the service or goods. They will be able to provide you with more 
information about their complaints process.
As such Im satisfied the DDG scheme cannot be used to look to recover funds over a 
dispute about the goods or services provided by the collecting company. Therefore, I 
consider Halifax acted in line with the rules of the DDG scheme when declining to raise a 
claim for the payment Miss Y disputed, as her claim isnt a valid one under the scheme rules. 
Miss Y has made reference to not being provided with the details of the DDG scheme and 
only becoming aware when she looked to raise the claim with Halifax. 
When setting up a DD it is the responsibility of the originating company to provide details of 
the DDG scheme. So, it was the responsibility of the third-party company to provide Miss Y 
with these details, not Halifax. And I cant agree that Halifax has acted unreasonably by 
informing Miss Y at the first available opportunity when she looked to make the claim that it 
didnt meet the requirements of the DDG scheme. 
So, Im satisfied Halifax has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this 
complaint and as such I make no award against it.
I know my decision will be disappointing to Miss Y as she has ongoing concerns over the 
services shes received from the third-party company; and shes said her mental health and 
financial health has been affected by this. 
I do sympathise with Miss Ys situation, but as our investigator has said, our service has no 
jurisdiction over the third-party company. So, Miss Y will need to pursue any ongoing 
complaint about the service provided directly with the third-party company  or seek 
independent advice on how best to pursue her concerns if the third party is no longer 
engaging with her as she has said.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Miss Ys complaint about Bank of Scotland 
plc (trading as Halifax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman