DRN-2699451
The complaint
Mr B complains about his insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) for his motor insurance 
policy. In referring to Aviva, I include its agents and representatives.
Mr B is unhappy that following an accident overseas he was refused entry to the country 
concerned on a subsequent visit. This was because he was still linked with his motorcycle 
that was involved in the accident by the authorities of the country concerned. 
What happened
Mr B was involved in a road traffic accident in June 2015 in an overseas country. An 
unlicensed and uninsured driver crossed the central reservation and collided with Mr Bs 
motorcycle. Mr B was severely injured in the accident and, following hospital treatment 
locally, was subsequently repatriated to the UK for further treatment and a period of 
rehabilitation. Mr Bs medical treatment and repatriation were covered under his separate 
travel insurance policy with another insurer. Aviva paid out in respect of the total loss of Mr 
Bs motorcycle in December 2015, at which point Mr B sent the Registration Document to 
the DVLA in the UK to confirm that he was no longer the owner or keeper of the motorcycle. 
The motorcycle was left in a police compound in the country concerned.
In 2019 Mr B planned a further trip overseas with the intention of completing the same 
journey that he had sought to make in 2015. This involved travelling through the country in 
which his accident occurred. When Mr B arrived in the country, he was refused entry. He 
was told by the authorities that his name was still linked to the written-off motorcycle in their 
records, and that he would not be allowed entry until the link had been removed. Unable to 
enter the country, Mr B returned to the UK. On his return he contacted Aviva to resolve the 
issue, but he says that he was told by Aviva that he had to resolve the issue himself.
Unhappy at this position, Mr B complained to Aviva in January 2020. Mr B provided 
information requested by Aviva. Aviva wrote to Mr B in March 2020, explaining that Mr Bs 
entry to the country was declined because the stamp in his passport showing his entry with 
his motorcycle [in 2015] had not been removed before he was repatriated to the UK. In 
recognition that this was not done at the time, Aviva offered Mr B £350 in compensation and 
said that they would consider any financial losses for which Mr B could provide evidence. 
Aviva added that they would reopen Mr Bs claim with a view to resolving the situation and 
the link to Mr B and his passport removed, allowing him future entry into the country. But due 
to the impact of the Covid Pandemic and closure of borders at that time, Aviva added that 
this process could take some time.
 
Concerned at the prospect of delay and the compensation offer, Mr B complained to this 
service in June 2020. He asked that the link between him and his motorcycle be removed 
from the records of the authorities in the country concerned, which he believed Aviva could 
do through their agents in the country. He also asked for compensation and reimbursement 
of costs and financial losses that he had incurred. 
Subsequent to Mr B complaining to this service, Aviva further considered his complaint to 
them and in July 2020 offered £2,000 to Mr B in respect of various costs and losses incurred 
from his abortive visit to the country in 2019. Together with the £350 compensation 
previously offered this came to £2,350 in total. However, ongoing issues with the authorities 
of the country meant it was not possible to make progress with the issue of removing the link 
between him and his motorcycle.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint. They noted that Aviva had offered Mr B 
compensation and reimbursement of his costs and financial losses, in addition to settling the 
claim for the loss of his motorcycle. But with respect to the issue of the link between Mr B 
and his motorcycle and the impact on his ability to enter the country concerned, our 
investigator concluded that Aviva hadnt caused the situation affecting Mr B and that they 
didnt need to do anything more. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. 
The main elements of Mr Bs disagreement were that the severity of his injuries after the 
accident affected his contact with the country authorities, and that this contact was very 
limited and adversely affected by language differences. He also noted that the decision to 
repatriate him to the UK and the way in which it was carried out was based on a medical 
assessment of his condition. Also that the motorcycle issue was Avivas responsibility, 
particularly once they settled the claim for its loss in December 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue of Mr Bs complaint is the ongoing issue of the link between him and his 
motorcycle, as recorded by the authorities of the country concerned, and the consequent 
impact on his ability to enter that country. Ive noted that Aviva have offered Mr B 
compensation and reimbursement of costs and losses incurred in his attempt to enter the 
country in 2019. Mr B stated to our investigator that he would accept that sum as sufficient 
(although this was conditional on confirmation of the removal of the link). So Ill focus on the 
main aspect of Mr Bs complaint, the link and the impact on his ability to travel to the country 
concerned. 
 
My role here is the decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mr B. Its not to consider 
whether the authorities of the country concerned have acted fairly and reasonably in the 
operation and application of their processes, requirements and systems covering travel and 
entry into the country.
 
Ive considered the evidence, information and representations made by Mr B and Aviva. Ive 
also listened to the recordings of the calls between Mr B and Aviva around the time of the 
accident.
 
Looking at the sequence of events from the date of the accident in 2015, the underlying 
issue would seem to be that when Mr B was repatriated to the UK, the country authorities 
record indicating that he had entered the country with his motorcycle was not updated to 
indicate that he had left the country (but that the motorcycle had not). The motorcycle itself 
remained in a police compound in the country and not was not returned to the UK (or moved 
from the police compound to a customs facility in the same country). From the evidence Ive 
seen, it seems to indicate that either action at the time should have led to the link between 
Mr B and the motorcycle then being removed. 
While there is some disagreement about what happened and the respective understanding 
of Aviva and Mr B, Ive concluded that Mr B was initially given the impression by Aviva that 
his motorcycle would be repatriated to the UK (or moved from the police compound to the 
customs facility). But this did not take place. It also appears that, despite his injuries and being treated for them, Mr B was aware of the need to communicate with the country 
authorities to make them aware of his circumstances and that he would be leaving the 
country, but without his motorcycle, and that he had some contact in this regard. However, I 
do appreciate that Mr B was in a very difficult position because of the severity of his injuries.
 
From the evidence Ive seen it would seem that while Aviva initially sought to move the 
motorcycle, their agents in the country said that they had been told by the authorities there 
that Aviva could not do this and that only Mr B (or his agent) could complete the process of 
moving the motorcycle or arranging for its disposal. Aviva confirmed this to Mr B in October 
2015. The matter then appears to have rested until Mr Bs attempt to visit the country again 
in 2019.
Ive noted that Aviva, in their response of March 2020 to Mr Bs complaint, indicated that 
they had been in contact with the country authorities and were going to ask their 
representative in the country to arrange for the move of the motorcycle from the police 
compound to the customs facility. In subsequent email correspondence with Mr B, Aviva 
indicate that this was challenging, particularly in the circumstances of the Covid Pandemic. 
Ive also noted that in November 2020 Aviva instructed their representative in the country to 
engage legal advice with a view to expediting matters.
Ive also considered other developments that have taken place during the investigation of Mr 
Bs complaint to this service, including passing evidence of Mr Bs insurance cover at the 
time of his accident to the Motor Insurance Bureau of the country concerned, who have 
provided some advice to Mr B as to how he may be able to help resolve the situation. As 
part of their response to Mr Bs complaint to this service, Aviva have also reviewed their own 
actions and the complaint made to them by Mr B. Their position is now that they do not 
believe that they were obligated to settle Mr Bs original claim as his insurance cover was 
only in respect of third parties.
 
Having looked at all the available evidence, Ive concluded that while the situation is 
unsatisfactory for Mr B, I dont think that the responsibility for it lies with Aviva. They did seek 
to resolve the situation at the time of the original accident, but were not able to do so and 
advised Mr B of the position. They have subsequently offered more recently to help Mr B 
resolve the situation, and I think they should continue to do so with Mr B. Ive noted that they 
settled the claim for the loss of Mr Bs motorcycle in 2015 and have also offered to pay the 
costs of his subsequent abortive trip to the country concerned in 2019. While there is now 
some doubt as to whether they were liable for those costs  as Mr Bs cover at the time of 
the accident was third party insurance - they arent seeking to recover them. I think thats a 
fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman