DRN-4313095
The complaint
Mr T has complained about First Central Insurance Management Limited trading as 1st 
Central. He isnt happy about the way it recorded details of a motoring incident under his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T was involved in a very minor motoring incident in a car park and he called First Central 
to tell them about it for information only purposes. But when he went on to get insurance with 
another provider at a later stage he was disappointed to find out that it had recorded the 
incident which had impacted his new premium. As he wasnt happy about this he complained 
to First Central about it. 
First Central explained to Mr T that it was duty bound to record the incident as information 
only on the insurance Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database, so it didnt think it 
had done anything wrong. But Mr T still wasnt happy that the incident was recorded and had 
affected his premium, so he brought his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He didnt think 
First Central had done anything wrong as it had to record the details of the incident on CUE 
for information only purposes. 
As Mr T didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr T isnt happy as this incident has had a small impact on his premium. 
But under his policy he was obliged to tell First Central about the incident and it had to 
record the incident, for information only purposes, on CUE. 
I know Mr T questions why this happened. But this is common practice across the industry 
and each insurer uses the database and the information on it to assess risk amongst other 
things. Indeed, Mr T shouldve told his new insurer about the incident when he took his 
insurance out as any insurer would want to know about any such incident even though there 
wasnt a claim. And so, he shouldve told them, even though it wasnt a fault or non-fault 
accident about the incident when he took out his new policy.
So although I can understand why Mr T wasnt happy I dont think First Central did anything 
wrong here in recording the incident on CUE for information only purposes. 
Finally, I understand that there has been some mixed messaging around how many years no 
claims discount Mr T has from his insurers. Some insurers do record the level of NCD 
differently, but Im satisfied that First Central recorded Mr Ts NCD correctly. And it has 
provided a letter for Mr T clearly showing Number of Years No Claim: 21 so I think it has 
acted reasonably here.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman