DRN-4331853
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the service provided by Zurich Insurance PLC when initially 
investigating her contents insurance claim.
Zurich are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Some of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As Zurich accept they are accountable for the actions of 
their agents, in my decision, any reference to Zurich should be interpreted as also covering 
the actions of their appointed agents.
Mrs T has appointed the services of a loss assessor on her behalf whilst Zurich have 
investigated this claim. In my decision Ill only refer to Mrs T when referring to any action or 
communication from her appointed agent.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Mrs T and Zurich. In my decision, Ill focus 
mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mrs T made a contents insurance claim under her contents policy with Zurich following a fire 
at the property in which she was living on 10 May 2019. As part of their consideration and 
investigation into the claim, Zurich interviewed Mrs T shortly afterwards. Mrs T signed a 
document which contained the main points from that interview.
Mrs T then had another interview with Zurich. Mrs T was given the opportunity to review the 
statement that followed that interview and make any necessary changes. Some further 
communication took place between Zurich and Mrs D as they continued to finalise their 
investigations into the circumstances of the claim. 
In October 2022, Mrs T raised a complaint about the manner in which Zurich had carried out 
their early investigations into this claim. In particular, the witness statement gathered from 
her and how the interview had been carried out. Another issue was raised about Mrs T not 
being provided with a copy of the forensic fire investigation report on which Zurich had 
largely decided their position in relation to this claim.
Zurich responded and didnt uphold the complaint. As Mrs T remained unhappy, she referred 
her complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our Investigator considered the 
complaint and partially upheld it. She recommended that it was unfair of Zurich to not have 
shared the forensic report with Mrs T and they should do so - unless it contained 
commercially sensitive information. 
On 5 September 2023, our Service shared a forensic fire report with Mrs T. Mrs T responded 
to say that this was an updated report and not the original, preliminary report. The complaint 
has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the impact that the fire has had on Mrs T and her family. 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
The scope of my decision
Its important that both parties involved in this complaint understand that my decision is only 
considering the referral to our Service that followed a final response letter dated 9 November 
2022. That letter responded to complaint points about the initial interview with Mrs T, the 
resultant witness statement and not being provided with any evidence that the cause of the 
fire was the hob being switched on.
This claim was first raised a number of years ago and my decision wont be considering the 
overall outcome of that claim. I also note that Mrs T has referred a separate complaint to our 
Service about other issues. 
The service provided
Mrs T has referred to being bullied into providing statements and responses she didnt feel 
comfortable providing, that she wasnt made fully aware of the importance and relevance of 
her statement, that there was no recording made and her personal circumstances meant she 
wasnt in a good place to be having interviews or giving statements shortly after the fire had 
happened. 
Its unfortunate that video or audio recordings were not made. However, in my experience 
although its usually preferable, its not always the case that a recording is made. 
I note in Mrs Ts complaint letter about these issues to Zurich, shes stated (in summary) that 
she wasnt fully aware of the motives of Zurich when interviewing her. But Ive seen no 
sufficiently persuasive evidence of anything untoward having occurred. Its common across 
the insurance industry that an insurer may speak to the insured following a claim event like 
this. I find nothing unusual in Zurich wanting to collect a witness statement from Mrs T 
following the fire. 
Mrs T has referred to various insurance legislation and regulations in her complaint. Our 
Service will of course consider the law when reaching a decision, but our remit and approach 
also includes the overarching principle of fair and reasonable. I wont comment on every 
piece of legislation/regulation referenced. 
The reference to CIDRA, in my opinion, isnt relevant to the circumstances of this 
complaint. CIDRA relates to the duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation of the risk at policy inception. 
Ive also not found that Zurich have breached their responsibilities under ICOBS 
(https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/ICOBS/8/1.html) or that overall theyve 
treated Mrs T either unfairly or unreasonably in relation to this part of the complaint.  
Whilst Im very sorry to hear of the impact of the fire, if Mrs T wasnt in a good place 
mentally, she had the options of making Zurich aware of this and either delaying the 
interview (which would usually delay progression of her claim) or arrange an alternative  
such as having a representative with her. Ive seen no evidence to allow me to fairly conclude that Zurich arranged the interview with any ill intent and instead, I find it more likely 
than not they wanted to speak with Mrs T to establish the circumstances of the fire.
Ive seen no evidence to support that Zurich were made aware of any issues with Mrs Ts 
mental health at the time that she was interviewed. The email provided (dated 19 November 
2019) refers to the Council being made aware on 21 May 2019 and an earlier email from      
4 September 2019 refers to Zurich by name. Any issues round data protection breaches by 
Zurich or other third parties would be best suited to the Information Commissioners Office. 
In my decision Im not considering data protection but the overall Service provided in the 
early stages of the claim investigation. 
Ive seen a copy of the statement Mrs T has signed and note a number of changes have 
been made and initialled by Mrs T. On balance, this leads me to conclude that Mrs T was 
given a fair opportunity to question any of the facts recorded and make changes she felt 
were necessary. It follows, that by signing the statement she was acknowledging that she 
was content with the statement. Its also worth pointing out that this was done a number of 
weeks (it was signed on 7 June 2019) after the interview had taken place on 20 May 2019. 
So even in a hypothetical scenario where Mrs T wasnt entirely comfortable with the 
interview, she had time to reflect and make the necessary changes to the statement without 
any agents of Zurich applying any perceived pressure she may have felt  or simply not sign 
it if wasnt an accurate reflection of what shed said. 
As this claim has progressed to the point where Zurich declined it, its understandable that 
Mrs T would reflect back on what had happened and whether what shed said in those early 
stages of the claim investigation unduly influenced the position taken by Zurich. This 
complaint (about those early stages of the investigation) was made the best part of three 
years after the complaint event. Whilst Zurich have questioned why Mrs T would wait so long 
to raise an issue with how things happened, Ive placed limited weight on this point. But I 
have kept in mind that memories do generally fade over time and much of the 
correspondence to Zurich in more recent times has been through her appointed loss 
assessor. Understandably, the loss assessor brings the experience of many years of claims 
involvement and will seek to act in the best interests of their client.
Having considered the evidence, on balance, I dont find that Zurich have treated Mrs T 
unfairly when initially investigating this claim. 
The forensic report
Although the report is not relevant to my decision (as Im not considering the claim decision 
by Zurich) Mrs T not having sight of it does form part of this complaint and the service she 
received. After our Investigator recommended that Zurich share the relevant report, Mrs T 
raised issue with what had been shared. Zurich said theyd provided an up-to-date and more 
substantive report from [their] forensic expert that will cover all aspects of their findings. 
Zurich have also said:
In line with our commitment to the FOS, and to be open with / assist all parties in 
understanding how our views on the cause of the fire were reached, please find 
attached forensic investigation report prepared by [third party name redacted by 
Ombudsman].
This is an up-to-date and all-encompassing report, which summarises the 
investigations that have been carried out to determine the cause of the fire and 
documents the analysis [third party name redacted by Ombudsman] carried out to 
reach their views on this front.Putting things right
Although I fundamentally find no issue with what has been provided (the updated report) and 
would argue that it is likely to show a fuller picture of how Zurich reached the claim decision, 
in the interests of completeness and transparency Zurich now need to share the original 
forensic report with Mrs T. 
Should the report contain anything commercially sensitive, this can be redacted. 
To refer back to my earlier point, its not the remit of our Service to investigate data 
protection. But my direction is based on our fair and reasonable remit and falls under DISP 
3.5.8, DISP 3.7.1 (4) and DISP 3.7.11 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/3/?view=chapter 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. Zurich Insurance PLC now need to 
follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman