DRN-3061528
The complaint
Mr C complains that BCR Legal Group Limited (BCR) didnt provide the services promised, 
or refund the fees paid, for a buildings warranty he bought from its appointed representative.
Mr C has been represented at times throughout this complaint by his broker. However, for 
ease of reading, all references to Mr C include the actions of his broker.
What happened
In 2017, Mr C bought a ten-year structural warranty from BCRs appointed representative, 
who I will refer to as C, for a house he was having built. He purchased the warranty through 
his broker. The warranty was underwritten by an insurer, that I will refer to as A. It cost Mr C 
£4,216.58.
In May 2018, before Mr Cs property had been completed, A ceased trading and was 
declared bankrupt. And in August that year, all warranties it had issued were terminated. 
Mr C applied for a refund through the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), 
however his application was declined as the warranty was yet to be activated when A 
collapsed. 
He therefore contacted C to complain. He thought it should refund the amount he paid it for 
its services and fees. He said he had paid for C to set up a warranty and it hadnt done this. 
So he should get his money back.
C didnt agree to refund Mr C any money paid, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
When we contacted BCR about the complaint, it said it didnt think this service had the 
authority to look into it. It said both it and C were acting as agents of A. And the activities C 
carried out werent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. So didnt fall into our 
jurisdiction.
Our investigator thought we did have the authority to look into the complaint. She said she 
was satisfied that C was working as an appointed representative of BCR and that it was 
carrying out regulated activities. 
In relation to the merits of the complaint, our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
said Mr C had paid C to set up a warranty and the only reason the warranty didnt get 
activated was because A collapsed before the build was complete. And this wasnt the fault 
of C, so she didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he paid a large amount in fees for services that werent 
completed, so thinks he should be refunded for any surveys or inspections that werent 
completed. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction 
BCR says our service doesnt have the authority to look into this complaint, and others like it. 
It says C was working as an agent of A and therefore BCR wasnt responsible for Cs 
actions. Further, it says surveys, inspections, risk assessments and the membership of Cs 
construction register werent regulated activities under The Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO), and our service cant consider them 
under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Ive considered this and I am satisfied that I have jurisdiction. I find: 
(a) the activities are either part and parcel of the carrying on by C of the regulated activities 
of: (i) dealing in investments as agent (Article 21 of the RAO) 
or (ii) arranging deals in investments (Article 25 of the RAO); or 
(b) they constitute the carrying on of ancillary activities in relation to these regulated 
activities; and 
(c) the activities were ones for which BCR had accepted responsibility under the appointed 
representative agreement, such that it is responsible for Cs acts/omissions in relation to 
them. 
So I find I can consider this complaint about C carrying out these activities against BCR 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
Mr Cs complaint
When considering a complaint, its my role to decide whether the business thats being 
complained about has got something wrong. And where I find it has, decide what it should 
do to put its customer back in the position they would have been in if it hadnt.
Here, Mr C isnt happy that he paid C for its services and it didnt carry all of these out. He 
thinks C should refund him the fees for the services it didnt complete. 
A large proportion of the amount Mr C paid for the warranty was for the services C provided. 
These included the necessary site inspections and surveys. These were an essential part of 
arranging a warranty with A and were required in order for the warranty to be activated. 
Unfortunately, because A collapsed before Mr Cs build was complete, his warranty was 
never activated. But the only reason for this, was because A collapsed. And if it hadnt, C 
would most likely have carried out the surveys necessary and activated the warranty.
The collapse of A caused its policyholders, including Mr C, a great deal of inconvenience 
and financial loss. However C wasnt responsible for A collapsing. Mr C paid for a warranty 
at an all-in cost, which he agreed to. And if A hadnt collapsed, he would have got what he 
paid for. So the only reason he didnt, is because of what happened to A, which I cant hold 
C or BCR responsible for. 
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the services he paid for not being completed. And 
therefore the money he gave to C not being spent on the arrangement of his warranty. I can 
understand why he thinks that because not everything he paid for was carried out, he should 
get his money back for the things that werent. 
But even if C had carried these out, Mr C would be in no better position than he is in today. So I dont agree he has lost out by C not carrying out all the services he paid for.
Each insurer requires its own surveys and inspections, with different criteria to ensure the 
build meets its own risk profile. This means any surveys completed by C at the time of the 
collapse wouldnt generally be transferrable to a different warranty, as they would have been 
specifically for the policy with A. So if C had carried out all the surveys Mr C paid for, this 
would be of no value when A collapsed. So while I can see that Mr C didnt get the services 
he was expecting and paid for, he would be in no better position if he had. So I dont agree 
that this means C should refund the money paid. 
I also understand Mr Cs point that the money may not have been spent by C on the services 
it promised. However this doesnt change my position. It makes no difference to Mr Cs 
circumstances how the money was spent. As A collapsed, there is no longer a warranty in 
place, and the surveys and inspections are of no value. He agreed to pay an all-in cost for 
the warranty and unfortunately this is now invalid because of As collapse. He would be in 
the same position whether C had passed the money on or kept it. 
For these reasons I dont think C has done anything wrong, so I cant say it has acted 
unfairly by not refunding the fees for the services it didnt complete.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman