DRN-3213669
The complaint
Mr E complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) delayed the encashment of his 
savings bond, causing him to miss out on an investment opportunity. 
What happened
Mr E held a fixed term savings bond with NS&I. It wrote to him in December 2020 to inform 
him the bond was maturing next month. NS&I enclosed a form for Mr E to complete and 
return, which would instruct it on what to do with his maturing proceeds. 
Mr E completed NS&Is form. He confirmed hed like to fully encash the bond and posted it 
back to NS&I, expecting to receive his money on or around the maturity date. 
NS&I received Mr Es form. And it completed a security check on the nominated account it 
held on record for his bond. The check appeared to show that Mr Es nominated account had 
been closed. So, still in advance of the bond maturing, NS&I wrote to Mr E to ask him to 
provide it with new account details. 
Mr E says he called NS&I a number of times in response to its request. He didnt believe 
there shouldve been an issue with his account. But on each occasion he called, Mr E waited 
a long time without his calls being picked up, before he disconnected the call. 
Mr E eventually replied to NS&Is request for new account details, but not before his savings 
bond had matured. Without an account for the funds to be paid into, NS&I automatically 
reinvested his money. 
Mr E complained. He was unhappy NS&I had delayed the maturity process and suspected 
itd mistyped his account details. Hed spotted an investment opportunity which he ended up 
missing as a result of not having his funds on time. Mr E also confirmed new account details 
which allowed NS&I to pay him the money he was due. 
NS&I rejected Mr Es complaint. It explained itd followed its usual process correctly, and that 
it didnt think itd treated Mr E unfairly. As he didnt accept NS&Is response, Mr E referred 
the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. They felt NS&I had met its obligations to Mr 
E, and had treated him fairly. Mr E didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matters 
been referred to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Es complaint and I shall explain why. 
When its handling maturity requests relating to fixed term savings accounts, NS&Is required 
to contact Mr E and obtain his instructions on what should be done with the funds. Its also 
required to treat Mr E fairly throughout its dealings with him. If I was persuaded NS&I had 
failed to do so, and Mr E was worse off as a result, Id consider whether itd be fair to 
compensate him. 
Its not in dispute that Mr E received NS&Is maturing proceeds form in good time for him to 
give instructions on what to do with his money. In section five, hes clearly indicated hed like 
to encash the whole bond. And in section six titled Bank details (essential) hes left the 
various spaces blank. Section six notes that: If youve already given us your account details, 
you dont need to complete this section  well use the nominated account on our records. 
NS&I has said that upon receipt of this form, and in advance of Mr Es bond maturing, it 
carried out a security check. Ive seen the outcome of this check and Im satisfied it was 
keyed correctly. The check reports that Mr Es nominated account had been closed. Had 
NS&I continued to try and make the payment in spite of this, its likely to have caused further 
complications and delays with reuniting Mr E with his funds. So Im not persuaded NS&Is 
decision to verify Mr Es details was unfounded or mistaken. In my view, reaching out to Mr 
E for further confirmation is fair, and an act of reasonable due diligence in these 
circumstances.
Mr E has said there shouldnt have been an issue with the account details NS&I held on file. 
I accept this is a possibility. But NS&I only had the limited information it received from the 
credit reference agency it used for its security check to go on. And in these circumstances, I 
think it was fair and reasonable of it to have followed up with Mr E in advance of his bond 
maturing, so the risk of his funds being delayed or going missing could be avoided. 
 
Mr Es suggested the delay couldve been avoided entirely if NS&I had answered any of his 
calls. Hes said hed frequently wait a long time for his calls to be answered before giving up 
and eventually complaining. Whilst I can appreciate its inconvenient to wait to speak to 
someone, given that Mr E knew when his savings were due to mature, and that hed 
identified a new investment hed need the funds for, I dont think it wouldve been 
unreasonable for Mr E to have waited longer for his call to be answered. Theres been no 
suggestion that NS&I was totally incapable of answering calls during the period Mr E was 
reaching out to it. I think its more likely than not that had Mr E waited longer, hed have been 
able to speak to NS&I and may well have been able to resolve the matter in advance of his 
funds maturing. 
As it was, NS&Is records show it received Mr Es confirmation of his new account details 
after his funds had matured. In the interim, without a new nominated account to send the 
maturing funds, they were reinvested, ensuring Mr E continued to earn interest whilst his 
money remained with NS&I. Once it had the updated details, NS&I made a payment to Mr E 
shortly afterwards. In my view, NS&Is treated Mr E fairly here. Im not persuaded its caused 
any unreasonable delays. Particularly as it acted in advance of Mr Es funds maturing to try 
and prevent issues with returning his money.  
Ive also considered that even if I felt NS&I had unreasonably delayed matters, Im not 
persuaded Mr E has suffered any loss as a result. Mr E has not provided the details of the 
investment opportunity he blames NS&I for missing out on. Without evidence of a loss, I 
couldnt fairly or reasonably direct NS&I to compensate Mr E. 
Im satisfied NS&I has treated Mr E fairly throughout these events. So I do not uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman