DRN-2613983
The complaint
A company, which I'll refer to as R, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to set up a ring-
fenced client account, despite giving assurances that it had done so. Both the directors of R 
bring the complaint on Rs behalf. 
What happened
In 2008, R opened an account with HSBC to hold money collected from the companys 
clients. From then until 2019, R says it continued to use the account for that purpose. 
In 2019, it came to light that although the account, which Ill refer to as the first account was 
labelled client account, it was not in fact ring-fenced. The bank said that R held another 
account with HSBC, opened in 2010, which was actually a client account but was unused. 
The directors asked for all the client money coming into the first account to be transferred to 
the client deposit account. HSBC said they couldnt do this, nor could they convert the first 
account to a proper client account. 
R complained to HSBC. The directors said they werent aware of the existence of the client 
account and the bank had been issuing them incorrect letters every year, leading them to 
believe their clients money was protected when it wasnt. The company needed these letters 
to meet the requirements of its industry accreditation scheme, to which it now appeared it 
had been giving incorrect information. It also said that switching around 260 client standing 
orders had created a large amount of work. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. It said that all statements showed clearly that the first 
account was a business current account and that R had applied for the client account in 
2010 and been given the details. 
Unhappy with the banks response, R referred its complaint to us. R said HSBCs error had 
left it having to get in touch with all its clients to get them to change their standing orders. 
And the bank had caused it to give incorrect information to its regulator.
After our investigator sent HSBC a copy of one of its own letters, in which it confirmed that 
the first account was a ring-fenced client account, the bank agreed that it had made an error 
in sending the letters and apologised. 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 January 2021. In summary, I said:
I considered the evidence showed that the first account was initially a client account 
in the form that existed at HSBC at that time. 
HSBC hadnt been able to show when the account ceased to be a client account, or 
that R was made aware of this change.
HSBC also hadnt been able to show that R knew about the new client account 
opened in 2010. 
I didnt think that a customer in Rs position would realise that client accounts and 
business current accounts were mutually exclusive. So I didnt agree that the bank 
statements ought reasonably to have made R realise that the first account wasnt a 
client account.
It wasnt in dispute that the bank made an error in sending annual letters confirming 
the first account was a client account when it wasnt. 
I thought the banks actions left R believing its clients funds were protected when 
they werent. This in turn led to R giving incorrect information to its regulator and to 
inconvenience once the error came to light.  
I understood why Rs directors felt so strongly about what had happened. But the 
reality was that Rs clients deposits remained safe and were now in the correct 
accounts. 
I couldnt award compensation for the stress and upset caused to Rs directors, 
because this is Rs complaint and R is a company. I could only award compensation 
for the companys inconvenience. 
Overall, I thought £500 was fair compensation for the inconvenience of 
communicating with clients and reconciling bank accounts. 
I thought it likely that R had paid bank charges and missed out on interest because of 
the banks mistake. 
I was therefore minded to direct HSBC to find a way to calculate approximately the 
interest R would have earned each year if the first account had been a client account 
since 2010 and pay that to R. And also calculate the sum of the standard monthly 
charges R had paid and pay that to R. 
R accepted my decision and made no further comments. But HSBC has unfortunately found 
it difficult to calculate the interest owed and asked for extra time. The bank said that 
substantial work was required and asked for clarification on the dates for the calculation. It 
suggested that it would perform the calculation from November 2012 to October 2019, 
because it couldnt obtain statements from before 2012. 
The bank also agreed to refund the monthly account fee (which was mostly £5.50 a month) 
from November 2012 to October 2019. It said that other fees and commission had been 
charged, but it didnt think it should refund this, as these charges would have been incurred 
however the account was used.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any new arguments or evidence from either party, I 
havent change my provisional view. For the reasons sets out in my provisional decision and 
summarised above, I still consider that the bank made errors that left R reasonably believing 
its clients funds were protected in a clients account when they werent. 
I think these errors caused R inconvenience. They also led to R paying some charges it 
shouldnt have paid and it may also have been deprived of some interest it should have 
earned. 
Putting things right
As I said in my provisional decision, my aim in awarding compensation is to put things back, 
as closely as possible, into the position theyd have been in were it not for the banks error. 
In Rs case, I think R would have had a client account since 2008, albeit possibly with a switch of accounts in 2010. 
I accept HSBCs argument that it shouldnt have to refund commissions and sundry fees 
such as internet banking fees, that would have been incurred even by a client account. But it 
should refund the monthly account fee, which was not payable by client accounts. This 
refund should start from the date when the new client account was opened in 2010, because 
I think this is more likely than not to be the date when the first account ceased to be a client 
account. The calculation should run until October 2019. 
HSBC has told me that it hasnt been able to obtain statements from before November 2012. 
If HSBC cant find a record of the monthly account fee between the date the client account 
was opened and November 2012, then it should assume a fee of £5.50 per month for that 
period too.  
HSBC must also rework the account to take out the charges and calculate any credit interest 
R would have received had the funds been in a client account between the date the new 
account was opened and October 2019. If the bank is unable to calculate a figure for the 
2010-2012 period, it may assume the amount it calculates for the year starting November 
2012 would have been earned in the earlier years too (adjusting pro rata). 
On balance, I still think that £500 is fair compensation for the inconvenience the banks 
errors caused to R, in the form of having to get clients to change standing orders and 
reconciling bank accounts. In concluding this, Ive taken into account that I think R would 
have needed to transfer its clients to a new account at some stage anyway, albeit in a 
planned way, with advance notice and with a smaller client book. And R would need to 
communicate with a proportion of its clients anyway in the normal run of its business. 
The bank has suggested that it pay the £500 compensation for inconvenience immediately 
upon R accepting my decision, without waiting until its other calculations are complete. I 
accept this suggestion as fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay R £500 for the inconvenience it 
has caused. HSBC UK Bank Plc should also pay R compensation for charges paid and 
interest lost, as set out above.   
HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay all the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it R accepts my final decision. If it pays part later than this, it must also pay interest on 
that part of the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman