DRN-2555383
The complaint
Mr M complains that BUPA Insurance Limited didnt give him a rebate of premiums for his 
private dental insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M held a private dental insurance policy with BUPA. The relevant policy period was 
between 23 August 2019 and 22 August 2020.
The policy covered routine, emergency and oral cancer treatment. The routine treatment 
was covered in Mr Ms chosen dental practice, up to the annual policy limit. Mr M is unhappy 
that BUPA continued to charge him full premiums while the dental practice was closed 
during the Covid-19 global pandemic. Mr M wants BUPA to refund his premiums for this time 
period because he wasnt able to benefit from his policy.
BUPA says the situation was outside of its control and the dental practices responded to the 
pandemic according to the guidelines set out by the government, which impacted non-
emergency treatments. BUPA also says dental practices were offering phone support and 
guidance on any dental concerns, including directing customers who needed emergency 
support to the best available location.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In short, he didnt think BUPA had treated Mr M 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances, BUPA had offered support while the dental 
practice was closed, and he hadnt seen anything to suggest Mr M had been prevented from 
making a claim. Our investigator also noted that Mr M couldve benefitted from his policy 
between August 2019 and March 2020 before the practice was closed, and again after it 
reopened.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators finding. As no agreement was reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All routine dental care in England was suspended between 25 March and 8 June due to the 
Covid-19 global pandemic. During that time emergency treatment was available through 
Urgent Dental Care (UDC) hub. It was unfortunate that the unprecedented circumstances of 
the Covid-19 global pandemic had an impact on available dental care. But I dont think this is 
something I can hold BUPA responsible for, as the circumstances were outside of its control.
I know Mr M didnt make any successful claims during the relevant policy period. But Im 
satisfied that he still had the benefit of the policy, and he couldve had routine treatment over 
a significant time period while the dental practice was open  up to the annual policy limit. 
The policy also covered Mr M for emergency treatment, which was still available even 
though his chosen dental practice was closed for routine treatment.
While I appreciate theres been an impact on the services BUPAs been able to provide, Im 
satisfied Mr M has had cover in place in case he needed to make a claim for any eligible 
treatment. He also wouldve been able to get virtual consultations while the dental practice 
was closed, if hed needed to.
Taking everything into account, I dont think BUPA has treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably 
in the circumstances of this complaint. This being so, theres no basis for me to require 
BUPA to refund Mr M any premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman