DRN-3670913
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) unfairly blocked and then closed his account.
Background
In March 2022, TSB wrote to Mr D and advised him that it was freezing his account while it 
carried out a risk assessment. It asked Mr D to provide identification and proof of entitlement 
of credits to his account. Mr D provided the information requested by the end of the month 
and his account was unblocked at this point. However, TSB also told Mr D that it was no 
longer prepared to offer him an account and provided him with 60 days notice of closure. 
Mr D complained as a result of TSBs actions. TSB didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. As Mr D 
remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ds concerns. She didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that TSB acted unfairly towards Mr D 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
A bank is entitled to review and account and suspend it when doing so. In this case, TSB 
had concerns about some of Mr Ds account transactions and asked him to provide some 
further information so that it could carry out a review. I appreciate that this would have 
caused Mr D a degree of inconvenience. But TSB did unblock his account shortly after the 
information requested was provided. So given the circumstances here, I dont think that TSB 
unnecessarily delayed matters or that it acted unfairly in relation to this. 
I know turn to the closure of Mr Ds account. As our adjudicator explained to Mr D, a bank is 
under no obligation to continue offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. 
I know that Mr D is unhappy that TSB closed his account even after he provided what it 
asked him to and unblocked his account. He also feels that his account wouldnt have been 
closed if TSB had been clearer on what it wanted from him in the first place. 
However, each bank has its own criteria and risk appetite when deciding whether it wishes to 
offer its services to a customer. And closing a customers account is a commercial decision 
that a bank is entitled to take. In this case, Mr D was provided with 60 days notice of 
closure. And Ive not seen anything at all to indicate that TSB wouldnt have still decided to 
close Mr Ds account even if the information TSB deemed acceptable to unblock the 
account, had been provided sooner than it was.
I realise that TSBs decision will have been very disappointing to Mr D and I can appreciate 
why the closure of his account will have caused him inconvenience. I also suspect that 
theres an element of disappointment that hes no longer able to have an account with TSB 
when he was previously able to, in circumstances where he feels he provided TSB 
everything it asked for. But despite all of this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell 
TSB that it has to offer Mr D an account in circumstances where it has legitimately decided it 
doesnt wish to do so. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that TSB acted unfairly towards   
Mr D and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for    
Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why I 
think TSB hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman