DRN-3418786
The complaint
Miss V, Mr A and Mr C as trustees of Miss Vs Discretionary Trust complain that Zurich 
Assurance Ltd has unfairly refused a critical illness claim. 
What happened
A Zurich Personal Protection Policy was taken out for the benefit of Miss V in October 2018, 
providing £100,000 of life and critical illness cover until October 2053. The policy was placed 
in trust, with Mr A and Mr C as trustees and joint policyholders, along with Miss V. 
In July 2021, Miss V was sadly diagnosed with a type of hormonal disease (Cushings) after 
suffering from a benign adrenal tumour. She had to undergo surgery in September 2021 and 
has since been diagnosed with Addisons disease, which requires lifelong medication.  
A claim was made to Zurich in November 2021. However, there was not a relevant listed 
condition of adrenal adenoma and Zurich could not consider any claim under Miss Vs policy.  
Miss V complained. She said she wanted Zurich to consider the bigger picture. The policy 
covered non-malignant pituitary adenomas; she had undergone surgical removal of her 
tumour in accordance with the wording for that type of adenoma. As it was, her type of 
adenoma was simply rarer. Miss V felt that latitude could be shown to the policy terms. 
Zurich rejected the complaint. It apologised for the upset caused to Miss V. But it explained 
that the claim response based on the terms of Miss Vs policy was correct. An adrenal 
adenoma was not listed and as such Zurich would not be able to consider the claim. 
Miss V therefore brought her complaint to this service. She explained how Cushings disease 
is usually caused by benign pituitary tumours but her case was a rare ectopic version which 
presented in her adrenal gland instead. She explained how her critical illness policy has 
listed pituitary adenoma but not adrenal ones even though it causes the same condition and 
consequences in respect of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol production.
Zurich noted that it cannot add extra conditions that are effectively not priced for in an 
insurance contract. It said this approach would not be fair on other customers who have 
bought the same product with the same terms and conditions, who may not have submitted 
a claim because their particular condition isnt covered.
An investigator reviewed the complaint but she did not think it should succeed. She said she 
did not doubt the seriousness of Miss Vs condition and the long-term effects from it. But 
from what she had seen, she felt Zurich had acted in line with the policy terms when 
assessing the claim. On that basis, she did not think the complaint should be upheld.  
Miss V said she still disagreed. She explained that the outcome of both types of tumour 
removal was Addisons disease, so she is in the same position she would have been in had 
she undergone surgical removal of a pituitary tumour rather than an adrenalectomy. She 
maintained that it wasnt fair to refuse her claim merely because she had the wrong tumour.  
Zurich didnt have any other comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn of Miss Vs diagnosis  I recognise things have been, and continue 
to be difficult for her.
The correct position for this service to take is to assess a policyholders claim against his or 
policy wording for the condition or event being claimed. In Miss Vs case, she says this is:
Non-malignant pituitary adenoma  with specified treatment
Diagnosis of a non-malignant pituitary tumour requiring radiotherapy or surgical 
removal.
The following are not covered:
 non-malignant tumours of the pituitary gland treated by other methods.
Miss V did not have surgical removal or radiotherapy treatment on her pituitary gland. I 
understand that one of the three types of adrenal insufficiency can be caused by the pituitary 
gland ceasing to produce ACTH and consequently affecting cortisol production by the 
adrenal glands. But, the policy does not account for that. It is not sufficiently nuanced such 
that the wording can be said to include any non-malignant adrenal adenomas. It is clear and 
unambiguous in setting out that only pituitary adenomas are covered.  
I realise Miss V feels that some discretion could be applied to her claim, given the severity of 
her condition, the lifelong impact and the fact that the outcome of symptoms is akin to a 
person having a valid claim for surgical removal of a benign pituitary adenoma. But, Miss Vs 
policy wording doesnt have the latitude to accept claims for conditions which are not listed 
or to disregard part of the wording. 
Certain types of personal critical illness policies have severity levels set out within them, and 
Miss Vs is one such policy. It includes additional payment conditions where Zurich will pay 
out the lower of £25,000 or 25% of the sum assured. The listed condition of Non-malignant 
pituitary adenoma  with specified treatment is one of these additional conditions. 
Nonetheless, each severity level still has a certain definition that must be met  and Miss Vs 
circumstances unfortunately do not meet the definition Ive set out above.  
Section 7 of the terms and conditions explains the cover that Zurich provides under Miss Vs 
policy. It expressly describes what critical illness cover is, and the distinction between the 
core listed conditions and critical illness select conditions  additional illness cover offered 
where a policyholder pays a greater premium (as in Miss Vs case). 
It confirms that critical illness under the policy is defined as, if a life assured is diagnosed 
with a critical illness/additional payment condition that meets one of the denitions listed in 
Appendix [1a, 2a or 2b]. That means Zurich is required to assess claims against the listed 
definitions given in each appendix. And none of the listed conditions or events in the 
appendices set out in the policy relate to adrenal adenomas. 
The decision an insurer makes to include some conditions or procedures and not others in a 
critical illness policy isnt something we can look into or make awards about. Thats because 
our service is not the regulator; that duty falls to the Financial Conduct Authority.It simply isnt possible for an insurer to provide insurance for every conceivable critical illness 
a person may suffer from or every type of procedure as a listed event, because the cost 
would be inherently unaffordable for most people taking out the insurance. What critical 
illness policies provide is insurance against being diagnosed with the most common 
instances of severe illnesses and the most commonly occurring serious events.
I know that explanation feels insufficient for Miss V. But aside from including mandatory 
conditions of stroke, heart attack, and cancer, insurers can decide what illnesses they will 
cover. Industry guidance from the Association of British Insurers proposes model wordings 
for insurers to use in critical illness policies, and the guidance expressly says how insurers 
are free to decide on the conditions and exclusions applicable to their products. 
What this service can determine is whether, in the circumstances, a business has been fair 
in carrying out a contract of insurance. I do appreciate that Miss V feels strongly about the 
matter and I can see she is understandably upset about her diagnosis. But in my view, the 
refusal of a claim for a condition or event which is not listed within policy terms and 
conditions is a reasonable action for an insurer to take.
My final decision
I am unable to uphold this complaint or make any award, as no claim is payable by Zurich.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V, Mr A and 
Mr C as trustees of the V Trust to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman