DRN-2895849
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a travel 
insurance claim made under their policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have worldwide travel insurance as a benefit with a bank account. They 
booked a multi-destination holiday to Asia due to depart the UK on 29 January 2020. The trip 
included a cruise, following which Mr and Mr M would then fly to Australia. 
Just before their departure from the UK, Mr and Mrs M were informed that the final 
disembarkation point of their cruise was changed due to the outbreak of coronavirus. This 
meant they wouldnt be able to catch their flights to Australia, and then back to the UK. As a 
result, Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip to Australia and amended their plans to fly directly 
back to the UK from the new disembarkation point. 
Mr and Mrs M departed from the UK as planned but unfortunately lost their passports at their 
first stopover. They were unable to obtain new passports and as a result had to return home 
as they couldnt continue with their trip. They arrived back on 31 January 2020. 
A claim was submitted to UKI for the following:
Additional accommodation costs incurred as a result of losing their passports
The cost of the flights for the Australia section of the trip
Unused holiday costs due to having to come home early
The benefit under the policy for cancelled port stops as the cruise ship was not able 
to visit several places due to the virus outbreak
UKI only agreed to pay the claim for the additional accommodation costs and rejected the 
remainder of the claim. Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with this response and complained to 
UKI about the outcome of the claim and also the service they had received. UKI 
acknowledged that there had been delays and other issues and agreed to pay a total of 
£350 to Mr and Mrs M in compensation. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy with this outcome and brought their complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think that UKI had to do anything 
more. She said that the policy only covered additional costs under the loss of passport 
section and that the section for cutting short a trip didnt provide cover for returning home 
early for this reason. 
And whilst the policy did provide a benefit payment for cancelled port stops, Mr and Mrs M 
had received a full refund of the cruise from the travel provider, so she didnt think UKI had 
to pay out this benefit. In relation to the Australian flights, she said the agent had said the 
travel had been rearranged without additional costs but hadnt provided any details about if 
there were any refunds due for these flights. And so, she said there wasnt enough 
information to say that there were any unused costs for UKI to consider. Turning to the 
customer service Mr and Mrs M had received, our investigator found that there were delays 
and also unnecessary requests for information - she therefore did think compensation was 
due to them. However, she said that the £350 UKI had paid in total for this was in line with 
what she would expect. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view. They said the compensation for the 
poor service was not sufficient and didnt take into account the amount of time and effort 
they had needed to put into the matter. They felt that the compensation should be £500 with 
an additional £2000 in respect of the lost Australian flights.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, what I need to consider is whether UKI has 
acted fairly when reaching its decision on Mr and Mrs Ms claim and their customer service 
concerns.
There are several different aspects to this complaint and so for ease Ive broken them down 
into separate headings and Ill deal with each point in turn.
Cutting short the trip and the loss of passports
Mr and Mrs M had to return home earlier than planned as a result of the loss of their 
passports. The policy does include a section for trips which have had to be cut short. This 
includes cover for both additional and unused travel and accommodation. In this section 
there is a list of events for which cover is provided. 
The loss of a passport is not one of the listed events for which cover under this section is 
provided. So, on this basis, Im of the opinion that UKI has acted in accordance with the 
policy terms and conditions when refusing a claim under this section.
But the policy does also include a section relating to passports. The relevant part of the 
emergency passport section of the policy states it will provide up to £750 per person if 
passports are lost or stolen. Cover is provided for the cost of getting a temporary passport or 
the reasonable extra travel and accommodation costs while on the trip.
Following the loss of their passports, Mr and Mrs M incurred additional costs for an overnight 
hotel stay before they returned to the UK. UKI has reimbursed that cost under this section of 
the policy. As UKI has reimbursed Mr and Mrs M for the additional expenses they incurred 
as a result of this loss, Im satisfied that it has met its obligation under this section of the 
policy.
Australian flight costs
The change to the cruise itinerary was notified to Mr and Mrs M just prior to them leaving for 
their trip and they made the decision to cancel their onward trip to Australia and amend their 
plans to come home directly after the cruise. This change to the trip was arranged with their 
travel agent who had made the full holiday booking for them, including the cruise, flights and 
accommodation. So, it wasnt an unknown or unexpected event prior to Mr and Mrs Ms 
departure.UKI initially said it would consider a claim for any additional expenses incurred to change the 
travel plans under the cancellation section of the policy  even though this would normally 
only provide cover for trips cancelled in their entirety. 
The cancellation section of the policy states it will provide cover if you have to cancel your 
trip. Mr and Mrs M didnt cancel their trip, they just made an amendment to one part of it 
prior to departure, and so, as per the policy wording, there isnt any cover for this claim.
 
However, UKI did agree to consider a claim for any additional costs they had to pay to make 
these changes  I think that was a fair offer. When UKI contacted the travel agent, it 
confirmed that no additional costs had been incurred by them to make this change. As 
Mr and Mrs M didnt incur any additional expenses in order to amend their flights, UKI 
declined this part of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M say they want to claim for the unused internal Australian flights, however, they 
have yet to provide any details of what costs they believe are still due to them. 
As the flights were booked as part of a package with their travel agent, the agent should be 
able to explain whether there are any monies due to Mr and Mrs M in relation to this part of 
the trip after the necessary amendments were made. I would point out that, as this was part 
of a package, there are regulations (The Package Travel Regulations 2018) that apply in 
situations where a provider has not been able to fulfil part of their obligations. In this case, 
the final disembarkation point changed and thats what led to Mr and Mrs M missing out on 
the final part of their trip. So, I would expect Mr and Mrs M to take reasonable steps to 
recover their losses from the provider, for example obtaining information from the provider as 
to why any such refund is not being provided. UKI has said that it would need this to 
consider a claim, which is reasonable.
Ive thought about this carefully and, whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms strength of feeling 
on the matter, there is simply not enough information to show that they have a valid claim 
under the cancellation section of the policy. Ive noted Mr and Mrs M have concerns in 
relation to approaching the agent, but it would be unfair for me to instruct UKI to consider the 
claim when it isnt known if there is an irrecoverable cost. If they are able to obtain the 
required information, Mr and Mrs M should present this to UKI for further consideration.
 
Cancelled port stops
Mr and Mrs M had upgraded their travel insurance policy to include cruise cover. This 
section provides a number of different benefits, one of which is cancelled port stop cover. 
The relevant part of the policy states the following;
We will pay you £150 for each port stop shown on your schedule that is cancelled by the 
cruise operator after your vessel has left the first port.
The cruise ship Mr and Mrs M was supposed to travel on amended its itinerary as a result of 
the virus and missed a number of its planned stops along the way. Mr and Mrs M wish to 
claim the benefit under the policy for each of these missed ports. 
UKI has said that, as they didnt make it on to the cruise ship  they had to come back early 
due to the loss of their passports  Mr and Mrs M are not entitled to claim under the 
cancelled port stop section. But Mr and Mrs M argue that the policy wording doesnt stipulate 
that they had to be on the ship when these were cancelled. Having looked at the policy wording, I accept that it doesnt specifically say that you have to 
be on the cruise. However, Im not of the opinion that this means Mr and Mrs M should 
receive this payment as I dont think that would be fair and reasonable. I believe the intention 
of this cover is to compensate travellers on board the ship for missing out on the enjoyment 
of parts of their trip due to changes that are made at short notice. And Im also aware that 
Mr and Mrs M have now received a full refund of the cruise costs from the travel provider, so 
Im satisfied they have already been compensated for missing this part of their trip. Im not 
persuaded that UKI should make a payment under this section in these circumstances. 
Delays and customer service
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the service received from UKI in relation to the claim. 
Ive seen that there have been delays throughout the time the claim has been with UKI, 
leading to Mr and Mrs M having to chase for updates. UKI also asked Mr and Mrs M to 
provide additional information which turned out to be unnecessary. It has offered a total of 
£350 in compensation for the delays and poor service.
I can appreciate how frustrating this must have been for Mr and Mrs M - they have also 
referred to the difficulty they faced in getting through to UKI on the phone. I think UKI could 
have handled the situation better by keeping Mr and Mrs M more informed. But I must also 
bear in mind that UKI was dealing with an unprecedented situation. Covid-19 has had a 
significant impact on the travel insurance industry given the number of customers whose 
travel plans were impacted by the disruption to travel. And so, I dont think its unreasonable 
that this had some impact on their normal levels of service. 
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that the sum of £350 that UKI has offered in 
compensation for the customer service issues is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman