DRN-2867110
The complaint
Mr K complains Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) treated him unfairly when it 
said it wouldnt issue him a new credit card when his old one expired and in effect stopped 
him using it. He complains Clydesdale Bank Plc should have given him time to pay off his 
credit card, following the process it subsequently did when it wrote to him saying he was in 
persistent debt.
What happened
Mr K had a credit card issued by Virgin Money  it was one of a number of credit cards he 
has.
In April 2018 Virgin Money wrote to Mr K to say that it wouldnt be issuing a replacement 
card when his existing one expired in July 2018. Mr K appealed this decision, but his appeal 
was declined. Mr K was, as a result, unable to make new transactions after July 2018 
amongst other things. His card was effectively suspended.
Mr K wrote to Virgin Money to say that as theyd suspended his card, hed no longer treat the 
outstanding balance as a priority debt. In other words, hed no longer make lump sum 
payments to clear in whole or in part the outstanding balance. He also said that this would 
mean he wouldnt be able to transfer balances between his existing cards to take advantage 
of 0% balance transfers  something hed done over the years meaning, in effect, hed been 
able to use his credit cards as a source of cheap finance to help with business projects.
In November 2019 Virgin Money wrote to Mr K to say that he was in persistent debt. Mr K 
thought this letter, and subsequent ones he was sent about persistent debt, amounted to 
harassment. Equally he thought Virgin Money should have given him 18 months to deal with 
his credit card balance when it wrote to him in April 2018 rather than out of the blue refusing 
to issue him a replacement card  in line with the process set out in its persistent debt letter 
 and then review how hed done 18 months later with a view to giving him a further 18 
months. Mr K was unhappy about all of this, and the fact that, for example, Virgin Moneys 
letters seemed to ignore the fact that his card had already been suspended because they 
told him, amongst other things, that he would still be able to use his card if he increased his 
payments. So, he complained to Virgin Money.
Virgin Money investigated Mr Ks complaint and said it had concluded that it wouldnt have 
been responsible to issue Mr K a new credit card given the checks it had done. Virgin Money 
accepted that when it wrote to Mr K about being in persistent debt it did make some 
mistakes regarding what it said. For example, saying that hed be able to use his account 
when it had in fact already been suspended. Virgin Money offered Mr K £75 compensation 
and sent him a cheque. Mr K was unhappy and complained to us  he rejected the cheque.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint and said that they didnt think Virgin 
Money had acted unfairly. In particular, our investigator said that Virgin Money carried out 
checks to see whether it would be responsible to renew Mr Ks credit card and concluded it 
wouldnt be. Our investigator said that Virgin Money subsequently wrote to Mr K in 
November 2019 to say that he was in persistent debt and followed the process the FCA 
expects.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators view, saying that Virgin Money shouldnt have 
suspended his credit card out of the blue and should have followed the same process it did 
when it wrote to him to say he was in persistent debt. Mr K also said our investigator 
shouldnt be spending time looking at what happened after Virgin Money suspended his card 
as that was down to him protesting its decision. He asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has explained in some detail how he has used credit cards, and the ability to make 
balance transfers along with his ability to pay himself a dividend, amongst other things, to 
access in effect cheap finance in order to support projects hes involved in as part of his 
business. I can see exactly what hes saying, and how its worked for him. I can also see 
how Virgin Moneys decision caused complications to the way Mr K wanted to manage his 
finances, and that he put proposals to Virgin Money, not least asking them not to suspend 
his credit card given the consequences that might have on him. I can see he has strong 
views about how Virgin Money should have approached the issue of his credit card when in 
April 2018 it wrote to him to say that it wasnt going to renew his card. I do, however, have to 
decide whether or not what happened was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and 
not whether I would have made a different decision to the one Virgin Money made. So, Ive 
looked at what Virgin Money took into account when it decided not to renew Mr Ks credit 
card April 2018 which was due to expire in July 2018.
I can see that Virgin Money reviewed Mr Ks account shortly before his card was going to 
expire. I can see that Virgin Money concluded  based on the information available to it  
that Mr K had arrears on some of his lending, and that he was using the majority of his credit 
limits. I know that Mr K says this is always the way hes managed his finances. But I dont 
think I can say it was unfair or unreasonable of Virgin Money to conclude based on the 
information that it had that it would be irresponsible of it to issue Mr K with a new card and 
that it shouldnt allow him to incur any further debt. In other words, I dont think it was unfair 
or unreasonable of Virgin Bank not to renew Mr Ks credit card.
I can see that Mr K wanted to be able to continue to make balance transfers and to use his 
credit card  and that he put proposals to Virgin Money that would mean hed be able to 
reduce his balance more quickly. I can understand why Mr K was unhappy when Virgin 
Money didnt take him up on these proposals. I can also understand why Mr K would have 
wanted a longer period of time to deal with the balance  in the same way someone who is 
in persistent debt would be given time. But I dont agree that Virgin Money had to offer Mr K 
the types of solutions he wanted. Virgin Money was concerned about lending to Mr K further, 
and that concern wasnt unfair or unreasonable, so I cant say Virgin Money did anything 
wrong making sure Mr K didnt take on more debt in this particular case.
I can see why Mr K didnt think our investigator should be spending time looking at what 
happened after Virgin Money suspended his card as that was down to him protesting its 
decision. I can also see why he says once Virgin Money suspended his card the most it 
could expect was for him to pay his minimum payment. Hes made a point that if it takes him 
over 30 years to pay off his Virgin Money credit card, thats his business. I can see what hes 
saying, but the FCA doesnt see it that way. The FCA has made it clear that businesses 
should contact customers who are over time paying more towards interest and charges than 
their underlying debt to make them aware of this and see what steps they can take to get out of persistent debt. So, I dont think Virgin Money did anything wrong writing to Mr K to say 
that he was in persistent debt because looking at his account thats whats happening. I can 
appreciate that it must have been frustrating to Mr K to see that Virgin Money when it wrote 
those letters didnt seem to appreciate that it had already suspended his card. And that it 
offered to give him the type of time to remedy the problem he would have wanted when it 
decided not to issue him a new card. But I cant say Virgin Money did anything wrong as it 
was simply doing what its obliged to do when it identifies a customer in persistent debt.
For all the reasons just given, I agree with our investigator that this isnt a complaint we 
should be upholding. So, Im not going to require Virgin Money to do more than it already 
has done. I appreciate that this will be a disappointment to Mr K, who has clearly been 
impacted by Virgin Moneys decision and an issue hes had with another bank.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman