DRN-2151431
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy Acromas Insurance Company Limited only accepted partial settlement 
following a claim on his breakdown repair cover. The car was towed to a repair garage who 
charged him £560 to fix it. But, Acromas only agreed to pay £335 towards the claim.
All references to Acromas include the agents it has appointed to handle claims.
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied Acromas had 
accepted the claim and paid the correct settlement in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. 
Mr U didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsman review. He doesnt think its right that 
he has to pay a proportion of the repair bill. He feels Acromas should cover the full cost of 
the repair because thats what his insurance is for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr U feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Mr U is unhappy his whole claim hasnt been accepted because he expected his policy to 
cover the full cost of repairs. The terms and conditions say that the fact a mechanic is sent to 
the car at the roadside doesnt mean the repair will be covered. This will be decided by the 
claims department. 
The terms and conditions allow Acromas to assess claims in line with standard manufacture 
or motor industry repair times. I note Acromas had two conversations with the garage about 
what had caused the car to breakdown. Following these conversations, Acromas were told it 
was the timing chain. The garage said it would take five hours to repair. Acromas reviewed 
the manufacture standard repair times for this part. This said it should take 3.95 hours to 
repair. So, Acromas said it would only pay for a repair time of four hours.  
The receipt provided by the garage included replacing the oil and the oil filter. The terms and 
conditions say any faults identified to Acromas which didnt cause the breakdown arent 
covered. And because these didnt cause the breakdown, Acromas has fairly decided not to 
accept these costs.  
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Acromas claims department has decided this 
claim fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
So, Im not going to ask Acromas to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman