DRN-3161173
The complaint
Mr I complains that U K Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in connection with 
a breakdown insurance policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I include its roadside assistance providers and others insofar as I hold 
UKI responsible for their acts and omissions.
What happened
On 21 July 2021 (a Wednesday), Mr I bought a breakdown insurance policy under which UKI 
was responsible for dealing with claims. The next day he was on a driving holiday with his 
wife, daughter, and grandchildren a long way from home. He couldnt get his vehicle into any 
of its gears. So he called for help under the policy.
UKI asked him to call its nominated garage. The background noise at the garage included 
bad language. With his phone on loudspeaker Mr Is family heard it. 
The garage led Mr I to expect an engineer to arrive by 11:13. The engineer didnt arrive until 
around 13:00. He said the clutch was intact, but the hydraulic fluid was degraded. The 
engineer did nothing further and Mr I was left stranded until he bought some new hydraulic 
fluid.
Mr I complained to UKI. During its investigation, UKI incorrectly said the repair had been 
completed by about 11:30.
By a final response dated mid-August, UKI apologised to Mr I and said it would pay £100.00 
compensation. Mr I brought his complaint to us in late August 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought that the frustration and annoyance caused was more than reasonably expected from 
day-to-day life. But UKI had recognised this and had provided compensation within the 
levels set out on our website.
Mr I disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
UKI do not make it clear that there is only limited cover once a purchase is made.
UKI could, if they chose, impose a condition on their representative, the independent 
garage, that it must make their client telephone calls from a private area. UKI could 
require its representatives to record telephone calls.
He was annoyed that his wife, daughter, and grandchildren were subjected to a 
tirade of foul language.
The UKI representative didn't carry any clutch/brake fluid. He said the car needed 
towing to a garage.  All it actually needed was the low clutch fluid in the reservoir 
topping- up. The policy covered this minor repair.
UKI left Mr I and his family stranded hundreds of miles from home.
They lied and manipulated their records to cover their late arrival.
He proposes changes for how UKI operate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt regulate or police financial firms. The regulator is 
the Financial Conduct Authority. We are bound by its dispute resolution rules.
The Financial Ombudsman Service considers an individual consumers complaint against a 
regulated financial firm about a regulated activity. We consider whether the firm is 
responsible for an unfair act or omission. 
Our approach to compensation is set out on our website. We dont assess compensation at 
a level intended to deter or punish poor service. We look at the actual impact on the 
complainant consumer (rather than what mightve happened).
In the case of Mr I and UKI, the policy terms included the following definition:
Time of cover
The time from the date your cover starts, to the date it ends. Youll see these on your
breakdown schedule. The only section you can use on the first day on cover is
roadside assistance  unless youve broken down already, in which case you wont
be able to.
Im not satisfied this definition was  on its own - enough to highlight a restriction on cover in 
the first day (let alone the first 24 hours) of the policy. However the following was clear:
WHATS NOT COVERED
 Labour charges at any garage we take you to.
 The cost of parts or materials.
So the policy didnt cover the cost of hydraulic fluid. And if the vehicle was taken to a garage, 
the policy didnt cover labour costs there.
Clearly, UKI wasnt responsible for the breakdown. And that was bound to cause Mr I 
inconvenience.
Mr I called for help the morning after the day he took out the policy. So UKI was required to 
give him at least roadside assistance.  
I agree that UKI had no control over whoever was using the bad language at the garage. But 
I find it likely that it was an employee of the garage that UKI had chosen to deliver the 
assistance to Mr I. So I hold UKI responsible for that language reaching the ears of Mr I and 
his family. I dont doubt that he was annoyed by that.
I consider that the garage shouldve managed Mr Is expectations of the engineers arrival 
time and get him better informed. No doubt Mr I felt annoyed and let down. I consider that the garage later made this worse by providing inaccurate information about the time the 
engineer arrived. Again, I hold UKI responsible for that and for the annoyance it caused Mr I.
From what the engineer told him, Mr I was able to buy some clutch fluid and top up the 
reservoir. So I agree that the engineer shouldve done more for him. But fortunately, Mr I 
was able to get his vehicle mobile again.
Ive thought about the extra effect on Mr I  in an already difficult situation  of the 
shortcomings for which I hold UKI responsible. Ive thought about what I wouldve found fair 
and reasonable if UKI hadnt apologised and paid £100.00.
It is my view that some distress and inconvenience was inevitable, and the roadside incident 
lasted for only a few hours. So Im satisfied that UKI has already done what I wouldve found 
it fair and reasonable to direct it to do by way of redress. So I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct UKI to do any more in response to Mr Is complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman