DRN-3214280
The complaint
P complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) has unfairly declined a claim made 
under its legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
P leases a property that it runs a business from. The propertys lessor was Ms M.
P took out an LEI policy with AmTrust in September 2020. It contacted AmTrust to 
make a claim, following a dispute with Ms M over the renewal of the lease in 
November 2020. Ms M did not agree to renew the lease and listed the freehold for 
sale with a vacant position. 
AmTrust initially accepted the claim under the contract and debt recovery aspect of 
cover. One of its solicitors (Company T) assessed the prospects of success. AmTrust 
said Company Ts advice led it to conclude the nature of the dialogue between P and 
Ms M prior to the start of the policy meant it ought to have reasonably been aware a 
dispute/claim could arise. So, it withdrew cover, saying the claim was found to pre-
exist the insurance policy. 
P disagreed, saying it was unfair for AmTrust to rely on casual conversations it had. 
P engaged in a back and forth with Company T, challenging the firms version of 
events. Following this, one of Company Ts associate litigation solicitors reviewed the 
evidence, and agreed the matter began pre-inception. They highlighted P had been 
informally requesting a new lease since March 2020.
AmTrust didnt change its position, saying the informal discussion of a new lease 
created a potential legal dispute which meant the claim fell under the pre-inception 
exclusion. It said P had the option to seek a barristers opinion if it wished upon which 
it would reconsider the matter. 
So, it brought the complaint to this Service. And it sought to claim around £4,500 in 
costs it incurred hiring its own solicitor.
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. P 
disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
My role here is to consider AmTrusts handling of this claim as the insurer. I am not 
considering Company Ts actions or the quality of advice it provided as this falls outside of 
the scope of this service.
AmTrust has declined Ps claim using one of the policy exclusions. This says:
The insured is not covered for any claim arising from or related to any actual or alleged 
act, omission, or dispute happening before, or existing at the start of the Policy, and which 
the Insured knew or ought to reasonably have known could lead to a claim.
Im satisfied these terms are clear. So, Ive looked at the available evidence to determine 
whether AmTrust has fairly applied this exclusion in this case. In doing so, Im considering 
whether P knew or ought to know that there was something that could lead to a legal 
dispute; not that there would definitely be some legal action, when this policy was taken out.
AmTrust sought the opinion of Company T in this case. It outlined several reasons why it 
considered the events that the dispute arose from or related to, started happening before the 
start of the policy. These included concerns around P making full rent payments and a 
discussion of selling the business alongside the freeholder in which P disagreed with the 
suggested price split. Company T also mentioned communications between P and Ms M 
about vacating the premises if a price could not be agreed. 
P has disputed these events. But Ive been provided with the draft contract between P and 
Ms M that shows a proposed sale of the property that subsequently did not go ahead due to 
a disagreement about the share of the profits. This was sent several days before the 
inception of the AmTrust policy. 
And Ive been given emails from P that refer to financial difficulties and a vacating the 
premises if agreements on rent could not be met. So, Im satisfied the commentary raised by 
Company T and AmTrust are supported by the email evidence it has relied on. And these 
suggest to me that the subsequent lease dispute originated from these earlier events, and 
that P ought to have known this couldve led to a legal dispute.
When P raised concerns about these findings, one of Company Ts associate litigation 
solicitors considered the matter. I think this was a sensible move in the circumstances. They 
agreed the exclusion about events prior to the policy was applied fairly in this case based on 
the evidence provided.
AmTrust isnt required to follow the advice of the solicitor as the application of the exclusion 
would ultimately fall to its own discretion. But I think its reasonable for it to consider this 
legal opinion when reaching its own conclusion. 
AmTrust considered the matter again after the legal advice was given, and it concluded the 
informal discussion of a new lease, as early as March 2020, and the disagreements that 
arose from that, had created the potential legal dispute which meant the claim fell under the 
pre-inception exclusion. Im satisfied AmTrust has considered all of the relevant evidence 
and fairly declined this claim in line with the policy terms as a result.
AmTrust also said it would reconsider the matter if P obtained a barristers opinion that 
supported Ps position. P has not provided one. So, for all of these reasons, Im not going to 
ask AmTrust to do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman