DRN-4286952
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly declined to 
transfer points he had earned using a reward credit card to his preferred partner account.
What happened
Mr G opened a reward credit card account with Barclaycard. Under the terms and conditions 
of this credit card, Mr G would earn a certain number of points dependent on the amount he 
spent on the credit card over a set period time plus additional points for other eligible 
purchases. The credit card was also only to be used for personal purchases and not for 
businesses purposes. And if any of the terms and conditions were breached or payments 
missed or late on the account, then points could not be earned under the scheme. There 
was a monthly fee charged by Barclaycard for holding the reward credit card.
Mr G used the reward credit card for a number of large purchases for business as well as 
some personal transactions. He accrued a large number of points on his reward credit card 
account. Mr G says he had been unaware of the restriction placed on its use in regard to 
transactions for business purposes. 
Mr G requested that the points hed earnt on his reward credit card account be transferred 
by Barclaycard to his preferred partner account so that he could use them for travel. 
However, the points werent transferred. There followed contact between Mr G and 
Barclaycard during which he was told that the points had been transferred, that they were 
due to be transferred and then that there was an issue with his preferred partners system, 
and he should contact them directly. 
In November 2022 Barclaycard warned Mr G that his card use was in breach of the terms 
and conditions and warned him that his account was at risk of being closed.
In January 2023 Mr G complained to Barclaycard that the points hed earnt still hadnt been 
transferred as he had requested.
In March 2023 Barclaycard sent Mr G 60-days-notice of closure of his credit card account 
because he had used the credit card for business transactions which was in breach of the 
terms and conditions.
In April 2023 Barclaycard wrote to Mr G stating that it would not be transferring any of the 
accrued points to his preferred partner account because these had been accumulated while 
breaching the reward scheme rules.
Mr G was unhappy at Barclaycards decision and complained to this service. He said that 
although he accepted some of the transactions on the reward credit card account had been 
business not all of them had. He said Barclaycard should honour the eligible points that he 
had earned. 
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be partially upheld. She said that 
looking at Mr Gs reward credit card statements she was satisfied he had used the card to 
make several business purchases which was in breach of the terms and conditions. And as 
Mr G had broken the rules, our investigator said she thought it would be unfair to ask 
Barclaycard to transfer any of the points to his preferred partner account. She said she 
thought Mr G was not eligible as whole to benefit from the reward scheme due to the way he 
had conducted his account.
However, our investigator said that Barclaycard had given Mr G unclear and misleading 
information about the points being transferred before closing his account. She said this 
would have caused him distress and inconvenience and it would be fair for Barclaycard to 
pay him £50 as compensation for its handling of his account.
Barclaycard has agreed with our investigators view, but Mr G says that the £50 redress is 
insufficient. He says that he should be awarded the points for any eligible transactions on his 
account; that Barclaycard should have acted sooner if it believed he was breaching the 
terms and conditions and, if these points arent to be awarded, then it would be fair for 
Barclaycard to refund him the monthly fee he had to pay to hold the credit card.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G accepts that he didnt use the reward credit card in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the scheme in that he made a number of business purchases. He also accepts 
that he didnt read the terms and conditions in respect of using the credit card and the 
reward scheme rules. And while I accept some people may not familiarise themselves with 
the rules, specifications and requirements of a contract I cant fairly say that not doing so is a 
reasonable thing to do. Ive seen that the terms and conditions were clearly set out by 
Barclaycard so I would have expected Mr G to have been fully aware of the limitations 
placed on the credit card use in respect of any business transactions.
While Mr G may have earnt some points through eligible transactions, I agree with our 
investigator that it would be unfair to ask Barclaycard to honour those as he had breached 
the rules about using the card only for personal transactions. As Mr G didnt use the credit 
card as per the reward scheme rules then I think its fair that all his transactions are 
considered as outside of the scheme. The rules specify that points cant be awarded if there 
is breach of the terms and conditions.
Mr G has queried why Barclaycard took so long to raise that he was using the credit card 
incorrectly. But as I think its fair to consider that the onus was on Mr G to ensure he was 
aware of how the reward scheme worked, I dont think I can fairly place any blame on 
Barclaycard if Mr G didnt look at the applicable rules which he knew existed and which were 
accessible to him. I also dont think Barclaycard reviewing of Mr Gs credit card use is a 
matter for me to consider as that would be a business practice. 
Mr G says in these circumstances it would be fair for Barclaycard to now refund the monthly 
fees that were charged for the reward credit card. These fees are part of the terms and 
conditions. Although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr G I m afraid I disagree 
with his view. Barclaycard provided the reward credit card to which a fee was attached but it 
wasnt Barclaycards fault that Mr G didnt keep to the terms and conditions when using it 
and so forfeited the benefit the credit card provided. Barclaycard would have honoured the 
points had Mr G had conducted the account as it was supposed to have been used. It was 
Mr G who breached the conditions of the agreement and so I dont think its fair to ask Barclaycard to reimburse the fees that were properly charged.
However, I agree with the view of our investigator that when Mr G requested the points he 
thought he had earnt were transferred, Barclaycard wasnt clear with him about the situation. 
It provided a number of different responses as to why the points hadnt been transferred. 
And I think its reasonable to say it misled Mr G as to where these points were. I therefore 
think Barclaycards handling of this part of Mr Gs account would have caused him 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I think, when taking all the circumstances into 
account, that £50 compensation is just and fair for Mr G.
Putting things right
Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint and Im asking Barclaycard to pay Mr G £50 
compensation for the misleading information it initially provided in respect of the points that 
had been showing as earnt on the reward credit card account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint. Im asking Barclays 
Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to pay Mr G £50 compensation for the misleading 
information it initially provided in respect of the points that had been showing as earnt on the 
reward credit card account
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman