DRN-2426242
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains Hiscox Underwriting Limited has declined a claim it made 
under its professional indemnity insurance.
What happened
M received a letter in July 2018 alleging a claim for negligence was being made against it. 
The letter advised M should pass it to their insurers for it to be treated as a potential claim. M 
didnt do this, instead it passed the letter onto a company it thought should be held 
responsible for the action complained about.
Nothing further was heard until April 2019 when M received a letter regarding proposed legal 
action. M contacted Hiscox to make a claim for assistance under the policy. Hiscox let M 
know it was declining the claim as it wasnt made in the correct policy year. It explained M 
has a claims made policy which means it should have notified Hiscox of the potential claim 
in 2018. It was now out of time to do so, as a new policy year had started. It also explained 
the new policy excludes cover for any events M should reasonably have known about before 
the policy started.
M disagreed, it said it didnt think the letter in 2018 was a valid claim as its client continued to 
do business with it. M didnt consider it was responsible for the negligence alleged, so it 
didnt think it needed to let Hiscox know at that point. M complained to Hiscox but it didnt 
alter its position.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said he didnt 
think Hiscox had been prejudiced by the late notification of the claim as nothing happened 
between the two letters. Hiscox disagreed and asked for the complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman, when doing so it reiterated the points it had previously made. M has 
recently said it paid £55,000 to settle the claim and legal costs. It also paid its solicitors in the 
region of £5,000 in legal costs to defend the claim. The case has come to me to decide.  
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 13 November 2020. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
Ms policy includes cover for any claim for compensation and/or damages (including legal 
costs) arising from Ms business activity or as a result of a business activity undertaken on 
its behalf by a sub-contractor or outsourcer. So, cover is available under the policy for the 
type of claim made by Ms client in this case.
However, the policy terms are clear that M should give prompt notice to Hiscox of anything 
which is likely to give rise to a claim under the policy. This is considered to be a condition 
precedent meaning Hiscox dont have to provide cover if this requirement isnt adhered to. 
The terms of the policy also say that it wont provide cover for any shortcoming in your work 
or your own loss which you knew about, or ought reasonably to have known about, before 
we agreed to insure you. This term is relevant as the claim was notified to Hiscox after the 
renewal of the policy in 2019.
I have to take into account the policy terms and the relevant law. But Im not bound by them 
in the same way as the courts. Ultimately my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable, 
taking into account all the circumstances. Bearing that in mind, Ive considered whether it 
would be fair to apply the policy terms strictly in the circumstances of this case.
Hiscox says the claim should have been notified promptly when the issue first arose in July 
2018 and it cant now be dealt with as the policy was a claims made policy  meaning all 
claims had to be registered within the policy term for them to be considered. Hiscox has also 
said M didnt notify it of the potential claim before the renewal of the 2019/2020 policy year 
despite completing a statement of fact, in which, it was asked to declare any circumstances 
known about which may give rise to a claim. And, as M didnt make its claim until six weeks 
after the renewal of the policy, there is no cover provided under the renewed policy for this 
claim.
Ive considered the letter that was sent to M by its clients solicitor in July 2018, it says a 
negligence claim is being investigated and further information is needed from M. The letter 
does however end with the suggestion the letter is passed to Ms liability insurers as 
notification of a potential claim. M said it provided the information requested to the clients 
solicitor and passed the letter on to the company it considered responsible for the alleged 
negligence. M said it heard nothing further and the client continued to do business with it, so 
it assumed the matter had been resolved. 
Having considered the letter, I think it outlined the possibility of a claim, even if M thought 
that was unlikely. And that means, on the basis of the policy wording, M should have notified 
Hiscox at that point but didnt.
So M was in breach of the condition in the policy. I appreciate that its a condition precedent 
so, strictly speaking, Hiscox would not have to provide cover. Thats the position set out by 
the policy terms. And I have taken that into account, but I have to decide whats fair and 
reasonable.
Ive considered what would have happened in July 2018 if M had notified Hiscox. At most, I 
think Hiscox may have asked for some further information and provided the information to 
the clients solicitor as requested, as M had done. But no further action needed to be taken 
until the letter before claim was received in April 2019. M notified Hiscox promptly when the 
letter was received. So in reality, there was little difference to the position of the claim 
between July 2018 and April 2019. And, Hiscox hasnt said otherwise how its ability to deal 
with Ms claim was prejudiced by the delay in notification.
The aim of the condition precedent is to emphasise the importance of giving notice of claims 
early. Theres a good reason for that  it allows Hiscox to step in and manage the claim from 
the start, making sure it has the information it needs and is able to control how the claim is 
handled. Any delay may affect that  for example if M had made admissions to their client or 
incurred substantial legal costs which Hiscox had no control over, that would make it harder 
for Hiscox. I understand why it wouldnt wish to cover a claim in those circumstances. But 
looking at the specific circumstances of this case, in my judgement, I dont think it was fair 
and reasonable to reject the claim in these circumstances. Hiscox would have been able to 
consider the claim in April 2019 the same way it would have done in July 2018.
Ive taken into consideration Hiscoxs point that these were separate claims made policies 
which spanned the years 2018/2019 and 2019/2020 where each is a separate contract of 
insurance with their own terms. However, Im also mindful of the fact M has had continuous insurance coverage and that both policies, although claims made have been provided by 
Hiscox. I dont think its fair or reasonable, in this instance, that M should find itself without 
coverage for an otherwise insured event.
As I set out at the start of my findings, Im satisfied there is cover under the policy for the 
claim made. And the policy would have provided cover for Ms solicitors costs and the 
payment of any settlement. Having considered the policy further, there doesnt appear to be 
any other grounds which would have prevented the cover being provided. I understand M 
was able to settle the claim brought by the client by paying them the sum of £55,000 to cover 
both compensation and legal costs. So I intend to say that Hiscox should reimburse that 
sum, together with any reasonable legal costs M incurred in defending the claim. 
While I appreciate Hiscox has had no involvement in how the claim was dealt with or settled. 
Had it accepted the claim when it should have done, it would have been able to control the 
claim from the start. As it didnt do so, M had to pursue matters by itself. So its as a result of 
what Hiscox got wrong that it wasnt able to influence the outcome  and I dont think M 
shouldnt lose out because of that.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold the complaint and direct Hiscox 
Underwriting Limited to pay M the sum of £55,000 and any reasonable costs incurred in 
defending the claim made against it. Hiscox should also add interest to these sums at the 
rate of 8% per annum from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
M responded saying it accepts my provisional decision. 
Hiscox said it didnt accept my provisional decision and in brief, made the following points:
M is represented by a broker and as such it should have been made aware by the 
broker the potential claim should have been notified to Hiscox.
According to Ms website it acts as an introducer for nationwide insurance companies 
and therefore it is not an unsophisticated entity.
The concept of prejudice is not relevant to the situation as the policy is written on a 
claims made basis and worded as such to explicitly remove the need for the 
subjective judgement of the policyholder and the insured. 
In any event, Hiscox would argue it was prejudiced by the failure to notify the claim. 
In addition to taking the action I noted in my provisional findings it would have also 
ensured Ms rights against the sub-contractor and its insured were preserved. It has 
no knowledge of whether this action has been taken, why the losses were paid in full 
and why M hasnt been able to mitigate its loss by making a recovery against the 
sub-contractor.
Its suffered a loss of opportunity to consider whether it wished to insure M for the 
next policy year. Any information gained by taking the action above, may have 
influenced its underwriting decision or policy premium.
Given the questions surrounding the steps taken to protect Ms position, it doesnt 
think reimbursing M in full for its legal costs would result in a fair outcome for Hiscox.
My provisional decision would be unfair on the larger body of Hiscoxs other 
policyholders.
Had M been insured by a different insurer each year, Hiscox believes my outcome 
may have been different as each insurer would have been entitled to decline the 
claim.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the information Hiscox has provided about Ms website and that it acts as an 
insurance introducer, however I note this only refers to buildings and contents insurance, so 
it is unrelated to this particular insurance product. Ive also considered what Hiscox has said 
about Ms use of a broker. But, as Ive already acknowledged in my provisional findings, I 
accept M should have reported the potential claim to Hiscox earlier than it did, so I dont 
think these points make a difference to the outcome I have reached. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I understand this policy was a claims made policy and 
under a strict interpretation of the policy terms, Hiscox would not be required to meet the 
claim. However, while I have to take into account the policy terms and the relevant law, Im 
not bound by them in the same way as the courts. Ultimately my role is to decide whats fair 
and reasonable, taking into account all the circumstances. Bearing that in mind, I remain of 
the opinion it is appropriate to consider whether it would be fair to apply the policy terms 
strictly in the circumstances of this case and that does involve considering the concept of 
prejudice.
In my provisional decision I said that at most, I thought Hiscox may have asked for some 
further information and provided the information to the clients solicitor as requested, as M 
had done. But no further action needed to be taken until the letter before claim was received 
in April 2019. M notified Hiscox promptly when the letter was received. So in reality, there 
was little difference to the position of the claim between July 2018 and April 2019.  So, I 
thought Hiscox would have been able to consider the claim in April 2019 the same way it 
would have done in July 2018.
Hiscox has said that it has been prejudiced not only for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, but also because it would have acted to ensure the rights of M against 
the sub-contractor and its insurer were preserved. Ive considered this however I think that 
any prejudice to Hiscox happened as a result of it not dealing with the claim. 
When looking at prejudice Ive considered if Hiscoxs position to deal with the claim would 
have been prejudiced between the date of the potential claim notification to M and, the date 
it notified Hiscox. Ive not seen anything which persuades me this is action Hiscox could only 
have taken within that period. 
So, while I accept Hiscoxs position to recover any costs, could now potentially be prejudiced 
as it didnt control how the claim progressed, Im not persuaded this is a reason which would 
have impacted its ability to take on and deal with the claim when it was first notified of it. For 
similar reasons, I dont think it would be fair for M to lose out through being unable to recover 
its reasonable legal costs.  
I understand Hiscox has concerns regarding the potential impact this claim may have had on 
the renewal terms it offered to M, however it hasnt provided any further definitive detail of 
this or suggested that it would have refused to offer cover. So I dont think Hiscox has shown 
that this did prejudice its position. 
Hiscox has questioned whether I would have reached the same outcome had two different 
insurers been involved, however I dont think thats relevant here as that isnt what 
happened. And, while I understand Hiscox has suggested any decision I make could be 
unfair on its wider body of policyholders, I must emphasise, my decision focuses only on the very particular circumstances of this complaint. 
Overall having considered everything, Im not minded to change my provisional decision.  I 
think Hiscox acted unreasonably in refusing to deal with Ms claim. To put matters right 
Hiscox should pay M the sum of £55,000 and any reasonable costs incurred in defending the 
claim made against it. Hiscox should also add interest to these sums at the rate of 8% per 
annum from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Hiscox Underwriting Limited. 
Hiscox Underwriting Limited should pay M the sum of £55,000 and any reasonable costs 
incurred in defending the claim made against it. Hiscox Underwriting Limited should also add 
interest to these sums at the rate of 8% simple interest per annum from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement.
If Hiscox Underwriting Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell M how much it has taken off and give M 
a tax deduction certificate if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman