DRN-3419954
The complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn), trading as Moneybarn, 
irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2016, Mr B acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. From the agreement, it seems that Mr B was able to use the part-exchange 
value of his previous car to make an advance payment of £583. Mr B was required to make 
59 monthly repayments of £277.64. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£16,963.76.
Mr B says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included checking his credit file and obtaining 
proof of income. It also said it was aware of existing debt defaults on his file but these were 
at least 10 months old. 
Mr B started missing his monthly repayments around two months after taking out the 
agreement. The agreement was terminated in January 2017 when Mr B was unable to 
continue making the monthly repayments. A court order was made in March 2017 for the 
return of the car to Moneybarn which led to Mr B agreeing a consent order for future 
repayments. However, as Mr B was not able to keep up with the repayments, the car was 
eventually sold at auction in July 2019. The outstanding debt has now been sold to a third 
party. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr B didnt agree and sent us details about his regular outgoings at the time. He says that 
Moneybarn was wrong to let him take out the agreement without full details of his household 
outgoings. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
The information available to Moneybarn showed that Mr B had had a default around 
10 months earlier. Mr B has also told us that hed previously had a car repossessed in 
2007-8 and his home repossessed in 2010-11. But I think the information about the relatively 
recent default ought to have been enough to prompt Moneybarn to realise it was unlikely 
Mr B would have been able to sustainably repay the borrowing. It would therefore have been 
proportionate for Moneybarn to have gathered significantly more detail about Mr Bs financial 
circumstances before lending, such as verifying his income and expenditure. 
Ive considered what Moneybarn would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. I agree with our adjudicator that from the bank 
statements Mr B provided to Moneybarn, whilst they show some of his committed 
expenditure, it would have been fair and proportionate for Moneybarn to ask Mr B for more 
details so that it could have gained a fuller picture of his financial situation at the time, 
including his daily living costs. 
Weve asked Mr B to provide us with further evidence  about his financial circumstances at 
the time the lending was taken out. He gave us some details about his regular household 
outgoings. However, this information alone unfortunately isnt enough to fairly determine 
what proportionate checks would likely have shown Moneybarn. In particular, Mr B told us 
that some of his outgoings were paid from another account. Our adjudicator has given Mr B 
the opportunity to produce further evidence and information about his daily outgoings and 
committed expenditure but unfortunately he has not done so. 
As Mr B hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Moneybarn ought to have known he would struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman