DRN-3724022
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L are unhappy Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank havent 
refunded money they lost as a result of a scam. 
Mrs L is the lead complainant to this service, so Ive referred to her throughout the decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. On 14 January 2022 Mrs L sent £180 to a 
seller she found on social media. After the money was sent, she lost contact with the seller 
so she contacted Danske Bank later that day to see if her money could be recovered. Mrs L 
said she was told she would have to call back to raise the scam. When she did call back a 
few days later, the claim was raised but Danske Bank wasnt able to recover her money. So, 
Mrs L brought her complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the £180 payment 
Mrs L made wasnt unusual or suspicious, so he didnt think Danske Bank shouldve stopped 
it. And although he understood Mrs L was unhappy with the way Danske Bank dealt with the 
claim, this didnt make a difference to the chances of recovering her money because it was 
removed from the beneficiary bank on the day it was received. 
Mrs L disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mrs L has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
It is common ground that Mrs L authorised the payment totalling £180. I accept that this was 
an authorised payment even though Mrs L was the victim of a scam. She provided valid 
instructions through her online banking. So, although it wasnt her intention to pay money to 
the scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of her 
account, Mrs L is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Danske Bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
It isnt in dispute that Danske Bank has (and had) obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in 
its customers best interests. So, the starting point here is whether the instruction Mrs L gave 
to Danske Bank when authorising the payment was unusual in relation to the typical account 
activity. Clearly there is a balance to be struck between allowing customers access to their 
funds and being alert to instances of potential fraud and scams. Prior to the payment in 
question, Mrs L had recently made payment of broadly similar amounts. Overall, I dont think 
Danske Bank were wrong to allow the payment to be made. I dont think the activity was so 
unusual for this particular account where I think it would have been reasonable for them to 
have intervened and to have spoken to Mrs L before processing it. I also dont think there 
were any other reasons for Danske Bank to have done more before following the instruction 
Mrs L provided. 
Mrs L is unhappy with the time it took Danske Bank to try and recover her money from the 
beneficiary bank and that she tried to report this on the day of the scam but was told she had 
to call back a few days later. So, Ive considered whether Danske Bank acted reasonably 
after it was made aware of the scam. But I dont think Danske Banks handling led to Mrs L 
not receiving her money back. Thats because the receiving bank has confirmed the money 
was withdrawn almost immediately after it was received on 14 January 2022. And when the 
scam was eventually raised, I dont think Danske acted unreasonably. So, Im not going to 
ask it to pay any compensation here. 
Im sorry Mrs L has lost money in this way. But I dont think Danske Bank reasonably ought 
to have done more at the time the payment was made, nor do I think its handling of the 
matter meant she was unable to recover her money. As such, I cant fairly tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman