DRN-2333385
The complaint
Mr M says Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty didnt administer his account properly. He 
says that Drafty paid some funds into an account that he no longer used. It was 
inconvenient for him to retrieve these funds from the bank that operated the account.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics. 
This complaint is about one running credit account Drafty provided to Mr M in 2015. This was an 
arrangement where Mr M could withdraw up to an agreed credit limit. He would need to repay a 
minimum of 5% of the outstanding balance each month plus any accrued interest or charges.
Mr M made two withdrawals from the running credit account of £30 on 24 January 2020. Drafty paid 
these into an old account of Mr Ms that he no longer used and I understand was closed.
Drafty has agreed that it made an error when it used Mr Ms old bank details. It apologised for any 
inconvenience it had caused and explained why a system error had led to his old account showing on 
its system.
Mr M contacted his old bank and on 4 February 2020, and he was able to have the £60 transferred 
into the bank account he currently uses.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Whilst she could see that Mr M had been caused 
some inconvenience, she didnt think any compensation payment was warranted.
Mr M disagreed and said he should be paid compensation as he had to contact a third party and 
Drafty didnt offer to put things right.
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me.
 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached a different outcome to 
our adjudicator. I think Drafty should pay compensation for the errors that it made.
Its clear that Drafty made an error here. But it did explain what had happened and apologised. And it 
seems that Mr M was able to reclaim the funds from his old bank account. So, Im satisfied that Mr M 
hasnt been caused any direct financial loss, because he was able to recover the funds relatively 
quickly.
Mr M has said that this took some time and effort to resolve and it was frustrating. On the one hand 
things can go wrong from time to time and it can be reasonable to expect a consumer to put things 
right if this is the best way to resolve the situation.
But I agree that Mr M was caused some distress and inconvenience and I think Drafty should pay 
some compensation for the time and effort that Mr M put in to resolve this. Given what I have said 
above about the financial loss I think this should be modest. And Im intending to award £100 for this.
Drafty, and Mr M, received my provisional decision. Mr M didnt have anything to add and 
Drafty hasnt responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Drafty and Mr M didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Drafty should pay Mr M £100.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman