DRN-3306199
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc is closing his local branch and will not provide him with an 
interest free loan to buy a new computer to use online banking.
What happened
Mr S says TSB is closing branches including his local branch and is requiring customers to 
use online banking. He says he doesnt have an up to date computer and says TSB should 
provide him with an interest free loan to buy a new computer. Mr S say the TSB branch that 
has remained open near him doesnt have parking available.
TSB says it is up to it to decide on which branches close and says it doesnt provide interest 
free loans.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought it up to TSB when using its commercial judgment to decide on branch 
closures and didnt think it was obliged to offer an interest free loan.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and says we should be doing more to support TSB customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr Ss concerns and that he will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied its up to TSB when exercising its commercial judgement to make decisions on 
branch closures and is not something I can fairly interfere in. I accept that a branch closure 
may cause difficulties and inconvenience but I can see that TSB has given Mr S other 
options for his banking including providing details of another business linked to TSB that can 
be used for some of his banking. 
I appreciate Mr S says TSB should buy him a new computer or offer him an interest free loan 
so that he can buy a new computer to use online banking. But that is not something TSB 
says it offers and I cant fairly order TSB to give Mr S a product it doesnt offer or direct it buy 
him a computer.
Overall, Im satisfied that its up to TSB to decide if it wishes to close a branch and so this 
brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do. I make clear to 
Mr S that we look at complaints independently and its not our role to support one side or the 
other in a complaint in these circumstances as he suggests we should do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman