DRN-3603010
The complaint
Mrs P represents a hire car business that I will refer to as T in my decision.
T complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim and acceptance of liability
under its commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
T made a claim to AXA in September 2018. This followed an accident involving a collision
with another car. T thought the other driver was at fault and supplied photos and an account
of the incident to AXA. T says a duplicate claims form had to be submitted because the
business lost the first one. And says the communication throughout the claim was poor.
AXA provided a settlement payment to T, minus £350 excess, as the car was considered a
total loss. After several months T says the third party produced a witness. T raised concerns
with AXA as it believed there was no-one around at the time of the incident. She thought
the claim should be pursued in court, but AXA didnt do this.
In October 2019 T received notice that following arbitration the third party had been found to
be at fault for the accident. T says it took until October 2020 to have the excess fee returned.
In 2021 T found out AXA had accepted liability for the claim and its previous communication
had been a mistake. T says this has impacted on the 2021 premium, increasing it by around
£1,000. T asks for £2,000 compensation for stress and the financial impact.
AXA says a mistake was made following the arbitration which meant the wrong outcome was
relayed to T. It says it shouldve investigated Ts concerns about the witness prior to the
arbitration taking place. It says if the witness statement had been discarded it still thinks the
outcome would have been a 50/50 split in liability, as it was Ts word against the other party.
AXA says Ts policy excess is payable, even in the event of a 50/50 split, but it wont pursue
this payment in light of its error when confirming the wrong outcome. It also offered £100 for
any distress and inconvenience it caused. AXA says had the claim been settled on a 50/50
liability basis Ts renewal premium will have been cheaper because of the reduced
settlement cost. It says it will refund £220.68 back to T to reflect this.
T didnt think this was fair and referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt
uphold Ts complaint. She says Ts policy allows AXA to decide how best to handle the
claim. She thought it had done enough to put things right for T by not claiming back the
excess charge, paying £100 compensation, and refunding part of the renewal premium.
T didnt agree this was fair and says the witness wouldnt have attended had AXA taken the
matter to court. T says the 2021/2022 premium is the one most affected not the 2020/2021
premium and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Ts 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Ts complaint. Let me explain.
My role is to consider whether AXA handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. It
isnt to decide who is it at fault for an accident.
I have read Ts policy terms to understand what is expected to happen. The terms say:
We have full discretion over managing proceedings and settling claims.
This means that its for AXA to decide how to deal with Ts claim. Most motor insurance
policies contain this term. But we still expect any decision on liability to be based on the facts
and evidence. In this case AXA explains the claim was decided by arbitration and T was
considered at fault for the accident.
It was for AXA to ultimately decide how to handle the claim, so I dont think it acted
unreasonably here. However, I have thought about its comments that it didnt investigate Ts
concerns about the third-partys witness. And what impact this is likely to have had.
I have read the statement provided by the third-party witness. This says T was at fault for the
accident, having crossed the centre line and collided with the third-partys car on the other
side of the road.
AXA says that if the witness statement was discounted  so not to have been considered
during the arbitration - the probable outcome would have been a 50/50 split. I acknowledge
Ts view that the claim shouldve been decided in court. But the policy terms give AXA the
discretion on how to settle the claim.
On balance I think AXAs view is reasonable. Based on the available evidence a split liability
decision was probably the best outcome T could expect even if the witness statement had
been discounted from consideration. I say this because there is no independent witness to
support Ts account and T and the third party blame each other. I think AXAs view is
persuasive that it will have been difficult to have argued this was a no-fault claim based on
this evidence.
I have thought about how AXA has recorded this claim on the Consumer Underwriting
Exchange (CUE) database. All insurers signed up to CUE record any incident that occurs on
the database. This information is then visible to other insurers. When a claim is settled it will
always show as a fault claim on the data base whether this is full liability or 50/50. So, in Ts
case a fault claim has to be recorded, this doesnt change if the liability is split.
In its final response to Ts complaint AXA says:
I have discussed the matter with underwriting and they have informed me that the full cost
of the claim was taken into consideration at renewal for the period 2020/2021. Had they only
taken 50% of the cost into consideration, which as I stated, is what I believe the probable
outcome to have been, then your premium would have reduced by £220.68. I shall therefore
be refunding you that amount.I think it was fair for AXA to provide the difference in premium to reflect the reduced cost of
the claim if it was treated as a 50/50 split liability.
I acknowledge Ts comments that the premiums with the new insurer are much higher and
that this is because of the claim from September 2018. I asked AXA whether it had recorded
the cost of this claim in line with its view that liability should have been on a 50/50 split basis.
It says it hasnt done this but rather the full cost of the claim has been recorded against this
incident.
Claims history and the costs involved in settling a claim are something an insurer will
consider when calculating risk and the level at which it sets premiums. In the circumstances I
think its fair that the records AXA holds, and those on the CUE database, show that liability
for the September 2018 claim should have been on a 50/50 basis. The cost recorded to
settle the claim should accurately reflect this. T will then be able to contact the new insurer to
discuss its premium, and the impact the lower claim cost from 2018 should have on this.
Its clear that this matter has caused T inconvenience given AXAs failure to investigate the
claim correctly and the inaccurate communication about the outcome. In addition, it hasnt
updated the claims record to reflect the reduced cost given its view that a 50/50 outcome
was appropriate. This has caused further issues and potentially resulted in a higher premium
with the new insurer.
Having considered these points, I think AXA behaved fairly by not pursuing the £350 excess
charge in addition to paying a further £100 in compensation. In these circumstances, I think
£450 fairly acknowledges the impact caused by these issues. But I dont think AXA behaved
fairly when recording the full cost of the September 2018 claim against T.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and AXA Insurance UK Plc should:
- provide confirmation to T that the cost of the September 2018 claim has been
amended to reflect a 50/50 liability basis.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
AXA initially responded to say it was considering my provisional decision and would provide 
a response. But it hasnt provided any comments or further information for me to consider 
within the timeframe advised.  
T responded to say that the way in which AXA dismissed the concerns raised was 
inappropriate and this continued for a long period of time. It says this has had an impact on 
the business and caused stress and anxiety. It says this was especially the case regarding 
the incorrect arbitration outcome, when it found out nearly a year later that it was being held 
liable. 
T says it has had a commercial policy in place for 25 years and if the policy is loaded then 
this impacts on all the vehicles not just one that may have had a problem. It says this will 
have a financial impact on the policy. It says it would like the outcome to be re-assessed in 
light of this. Also, that it has paid at least £1,000 more in premiums due to the fault being 
recorded incorrectly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Ts comments about how AXA dismissed its concerns and that this went on 
for a long period. 
In my provisional decision I accepted AXA didnt investigate Ts claim correctly and provided 
inaccurate information. This caused inconvenience. I acknowledge the time it took before T 
became aware of the at-fault decision. But I thought by paying £100 compensation and not 
pursuing the £350 policy excess AXA had reasonably acknowledged the impact caused by 
these issues. T is a business, so we wouldnt consider awarding compensation for stress 
and anxiety in the way we might do for an individual. So, although I can understand the 
strong view T holds that more compensation is warranted, Im not persuaded to change my 
decision in relation to this point. 
I understand Ts concern about the impact the at-fault claim has had on the cost of future 
insurance premiums. In my provisional decision I said that I thought a split liability decision 
was likely to be the best outcome T couldve achieved. I said this because there was no 
independent witness to support Ts account and both parties blamed each other. 
In my decision I explained the CUE database will show an at-fault claim whether this is full 
liability or a 50/50 split. So, I didnt think this needed to be changed. But I said it was fair for 
AXA to amend the records to show the cost of the claim reflected a 50/50 liability split.
I acknowledge Ts comments that the insurance premium is now over £1,000 more 
expensive. I dont dispute this. In my provisional decision I said that once the records are 
amended, T can contact its current insurer to discuss the reduced cost claim and the impact 
this has on its premium. If T accepts my decision, Im satisfied that the CUE records will 
fairly reflect the circumstances of the claim.  
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ts complaint, 
but Im not persuaded to change the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
AXA Insurance UK Plc should:
- provide confirmation to T that the cost of the September 2018 claim has been
amended to reflect a 50/50 liability basis.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman