DRN-3318698
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) wrongly 
reported a default to the credit reference agencies which led to her mortgage application 
being declined.
What happened
In May 2021, Mrs W complained to Tesco as theyd incorrectly reported a loan default on her 
credit file. She said this had been reported to the credit reference agencies in September 
2016. Mrs W says her application to re-mortgage her property in early 2018 was declined as 
a consequence. This meant she had to take a more expensive mortgage with another 
lender. 
Despite numerous attempts by Mrs W to resolve the problem with both Tesco and the credit 
reference agencies, the default remained recorded on her credit file with one agency. So, 
Mrs W complained to this service in May 2021. Mrs Ws complaint was passed to Tesco to 
investigate.
Tesco upheld Mrs Ws complaint and admitted they were at fault for wrongly registering the 
default and their subsequent failed attempts to remove this from her credit file with one credit 
agency. Tesco offered to pay compensation to Mrs W of £350.
Mrs W wasnt happy with Tescos offer. She said their offer didnt fully reflect her resulting 
financial losses. She said their error resulted in a more expensive mortgage costing an 
additional £3,600 over the five-year term. Shed also incurred costs of £86.50 when she 
subscribed to receive regular credit reports. She wanted to monitor her credit file while she 
attempted to resolve matters with Tesco and the credit reference agency. Due to the re-
mortgage decline in 2018, Mrs Ws existing mortgage reverted to a standard variable rate 
while her broker sought an alternative lender. This resulted in additional interest costs of 
£243.
While our investigator was considering Mrs Ws complaint, Tesco proposed an increased 
settlement which included:
Mortgage repayment variance of £3,600; and
Standard Variable Rate variance of £242.47; and
Credit reference agency report subscription of £86.50.
However, Tesco said that their settlement offer was subject to Mrs W providing evidence to 
substantiate these amounts.
Our investigator agreed Tesco had made a mistake but thought their compensation offer of 
£350 wasnt sufficiently fair to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by their 
mistake. He thought Tesco should pay compensation of £600. 
Our investigator also agreed with Tescos proposed increased settlement. So, Mrs W 
provided information to support her claim. But when this was presented to Tesco by our 
investigator, they didnt agree the evidence was sufficient.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Ws complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to include any further explanations or findings as regards the mistakes made 
by Tesco here. Both parties are well aware of what went wrong, and I understand Tesco 
have now taken the necessary steps to correct Mrs Ws credit file. I think this was the right 
thing to do and Im pleased this appears to have finally been resolved. 
Having considered this complaint, its clear to me Mrs W experienced considerable ongoing 
distress and inconvenience. Having a default on your credit file can be quite damaging 
towards an individuals future ability to secure credit on attractive terms. Im also aware that 
Mrs W has continually tried to resolve matters with Tesco since the mistake was first 
identified. 
Given the length of time taken to resolve matters, I also dont feel that Tescos offer of £350 
fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused. I acknowledge Mrs Ws efforts have 
continued over a three-year period. So, I believe a figure of £600 feels much fairer in these 
circumstances and this will be reflected in my decision.
The remaining issue here relates to the financial losses Mrs W believes she incurred and 
Tesco should pay.
In Tescos response to this service, they said Applying common sense, I think its 
reasonable to assume the default did impact Mrs Ws obtaining credit or the cost of obtaining 
it. The difficultywith the information provided is it doesnt clearly evidence the preferable 
rate she was declined. But Tesco did agree to cover the additional standard variable rate 
interest should Mrs W provide acceptable evidence as regards the mortgage she was 
declined for. Tesco also agreed to pay the credit search subscription costs subject to 
evidence being provided.
Mrs W has provided this service bank statements, in her name, which show the subscription 
payments for her credit reports from March 2018 to December 2018. These payments total 
£86.50. Based upon the evidence provided and the timing of the payments relative to Mrs 
Ws mortgage decline, Im persuaded that she did indeed incur these costs. And that they 
were incurred as a consequence of the default incorrectly registered by Tesco.
Mrs W has also provided an email received from her mortgage broker. The broker states, I 
can confirm that I do recall that the lender declined your mortgage in January 2018 due to 
a Tesco default that was incorrectly registeredI still have a copy of the mortgage 
illustration  showing the lenders rate that I recommended at the time. I have attached 
this.
Where there remains a dispute, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I 
consider was most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding circumstances. Tesco have accepted that their mistake impacted upon 
Mrs Ws credit file. Mrs W did re-mortgage in early 2018 during which time the error was 
identified. The mortgage broker not only confirms a re-mortgage was being arranged but has 
also provided a full copy of the mortgage illustration provided to Mrs W for the lender 
referred to in the email.
So, I think the information provided by Mrs W supports her recollections at that time. And as 
the mortgage rate detailed within the brokers illustration was less than that ultimately taken, 
Im persuaded its more likely than not she wouldve taken that particular mortgage, had her 
application not been declined. Putting things right
Ultimately, theres no debate over whether Tescos mistakes impacted Mrs Ws credit 
standing here. Rather, the question is to what extent? Unlike Tesco, I believe the information 
provided is sufficient to persuade me of Mrs Ws intentions at the time. 
Having concluded that I think the evidence provided by Mrs W is sufficiently persuasive, I will 
be asking Tesco to honour the settlement theyve proposed. And to avoid any further delays, 
I will formalise this within my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
I require Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank to:
pay Mrs W £3,600 representing the additional interest costs incurred due to her 
original re-mortgage application being declined; and
pay Mrs W £242.47 representing the additional interest costs incurred when Mrs Ws 
original mortgage reverted to a standard variable rate due to the re-mortgage delays 
when her first application was declined; and
pay Mrs W £86.50 in respect of the credit search subscription costs incurred; and
pay Mrs W £600 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their mistake.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman