DRN-2842888
The complaint
Ms U says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Ms U bought the policy in 2001 in connection with a credit agreement she took out to buy 
electrical goods. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms U disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Us case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Us complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 
I think AXA made Ms U aware she had a choice about buying the PPI and she chose 
to take it. I say this because there was a separate section about PPI on the credit 
agreement, and Ms U signed that section to show that she wanted the cover. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that taking the PPI was a condition of getting the 
credit she wanted. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms U so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means that Ms U had to cover 
her repayments. 
But even if AXA had recommended the policy to Ms U, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Ms U says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work 
because of sickness or accident, and that she had savings and other assets. But the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to Ms Us employer benefits, and wouldve meant 
she couldve used her sick pay, savings and other assets to cover other expenses. 
So I still think the policy wouldve been useful to her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms U about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. Ms U has told me she had a medical condition when she bought 
the policy, so its possible she wouldnt have been covered if shed had to claim on 
the policy in connection with that condition. 
But I understand Ms U hasnt had to take any time off work in connection with her 
condition. With that in mind, I think Ms U wouldve thought the likelihood of having to 
take time off work in connection with her condition was relatively low. So even if 
shed had better information about the exclusion that might have affected her, I dont 
think she wouldve made a different decision about buying the policy. 
The policy was also competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. Which means  
overall, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman