DRN-3905220
The complaint
Ms S complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) dealt with a claim under her 
home insurance policy for damage to her property caused by bad weather.
 
Ageas use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Ageas 
includes these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Eunice, bad weather caused damage to Ms Ss 
property. An upstairs bedroom window was broken by a hard object that blew into it. Ms S 
had it replaced to avoid further water ingress. There was also damage to fencing and a 
corrugated Perspex roof covering an area between the kitchen and garage blew off. Ms S 
contacted Ageas to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim. Ageas advised Ms S the 
policy didnt cover damage to fencing. They appointed a surveyor (V) to assess the damage. 
Ms S also obtained a quote for repairs to damage to the property roof (damaged and slipped 
slates) and the garage roof (£1,895). Ageas considered the quote but asked for more detail.
While V was appointed shortly after the incident, a visit to Ms Ss property didnt take place 
until May 2022 (by a separate firm, M). Ms report covered the claim damage to the window 
and the Perspex roof. On the window, the report concluded there was no evidence of 
damage or recently replaced glass. The report noted visible damage to the window frames, 
which they considered to be wear and tear (so wouldnt be covered under the policy). On the 
damage to the Perspex roof, the report noted there was a timber frame supporting the roof 
and most of the Perspex was missing. The report concluded that due to the timber size, 
quality of the Perspex and the design of the roof, it couldnt withstand the force of the winds. 
The report recommended the roof be replaced with a more substantial structure.
Ms overall conclusion was there was no visible storm-related damage and the storm had 
highlighted the deterioration and breakdown of timber window frames and covered roof area.
Based on Ms report, Ageas declined Ms Ss claim. 
Unhappy at her claim being declined, Ms S complained to Ageas. But they didnt uphold the 
complaint, maintaining their decision to decline the claim in their final response. While they 
accepted there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, Ageas referred to Ms 
conclusions that the cause of the damage was breakdown and deterioration to the timber 
window frames and covered roof. Ageas also referred to the policy terms which excluded 
loss or damage that happened gradually over time and from wear and tear. 
Ms S then complained to this service. She was unhappy at Ageas declining her claim, 
meaning shed had to pay for repairs. As well as the financial impact, she said the 
experience had affected her mental health. She wanted Ageas to accept her claim and pay 
for the repairs and to pay compensation.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Ageas hadnt acted fairly. He concluded 
Ageas unfairly declined the claim for damage to the window, as M hadnt inspected the 
window that Ms S said had been broken. Nor had they shown a link between the condition of 
the timber and the glass being broken. But Ms S hadnt provided photographs showing the 
broken window, so the investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to show an 
insured event occurred. So, Ms S would need to provide photographs for Ageas to consider.
Regarding the Perspex roof, the investigator didnt agree with Ms view the roof wasnt able 
to withstand the force of the winds, so Ageas should accept that part of the claim. On the 
repairs to the property roof due to damaged and slipped slates, the investigator noted a 
quote for repairs had been provided, but without previous mention of damage. And no 
additional information had been provided. He thought Ms S would need to provide 
photographs of the damage to Ageas for consideration.
Given the three-month delay between the incident and Ms inspection of the property, the 
investigator noted Ageas accepted this was too long and had offered £200 in compensation. 
The investigator thought this was fair.
As neither Ms S nor Ageas responded to the investigators conclusions, the complaint was 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to reassure Ms S that Ive considered carefully what shes told us about her 
mental health and other issues. I appreciate the damage to her property in the storm would 
have been stressful and affected her more because of her mental health. Ive borne this in 
mind when considering the complaint and forming my findings and conclusions, in the 
context of my role here being to decide whether Ageas have acted fairly towards Ms S.
There are several elements in Ms Ss claim (and her complaint). The first is the damage to 
the window, which she maintains was the result of an impact from a hard object (possibly a 
bin lid). The second is the damage to the Perspex roof. Both were covered in Ms report and 
Ageass subsequent decline of the claim (and their final response).
However, there are other elements which do not appear in Ms report or Ageass final 
response. These are, firstly, damage which Ms S says the storm caused to the main 
property roof (damaged/slipped slates) and the garage roof. Ms S maintains both were 
damaged in the storm, and so should be covered under her claim, From what Ive seen, Ms 
S has provided an invoice for temporary repairs to the property roof (to prevent further water 
ingress and consequent damage) at a cost of £550. Shes also provided an estimate for 
permanent repairs (totalling £1,895). While Ive seen evidence Ageas have queried the 
quote and asked several points of clarification, I cannot see theyve assessed this element of 
the claim and decided whether to accept it or decline it.  
Given this, Im not able to form a conclusion on whether Ageas have acted fairly in respect of 
this element of the claim. What I think should happen is for Ageas to assess this element, in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions, and communicate the outcome of that 
assessment to Ms S. It would then be for Ms S to decide whether she accepts that outcome. 
If unhappy, she could raise a new complaint with Ageas for them to consider under their 
complaints process and issue a final response. It would then be open for Ms S to raise a 
new complaint with this service, should she be unhappy with any such final response.
The other claim made by Ms S, which she mentions in her complaint, is in respect of 
accidental damage to a bathroom wash basin. This is unrelated to the claim for storm 
damage (the storm didnt cause the damage). Ageas have said theyd consider the claim under the accidental damage section of the policy. Again, this didnt form part of Ageass 
assessment of the storm damage or their final response. So, this isnt part of this decision.
 
Ive also considered the damage to a fence, which Ms S told Ageas about when she notified 
them of the incident. Ageas said the policy didnt cover damage to fences, so didnt assess 
this element any further (and so doesnt feature in their final response). But looking at the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) issued as part of the policy documents it 
states (for Buildings Insurance) under the heading What is not insured:
x. Storm or flood damage to gates, hedges, fences or swimming pool covers.
I think this makes it clear damage to a fence in a storm isnt covered. So, Ive concluded 
Ageas acted fairly and reasonably in not covering this element as part of the claim.
Coming back to the two elements of Ms Ss claim and complaint to this service (covered in 
Ageass final response) Ive considered them in turn. 
In considering both elements, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-
existing issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response Ageas said they were satisfied there were storm 
conditions around Ms Ss property at the time of the incident, noting a highest wind speed of 
58 mph. Looking at the reports from the weather firm this service uses, for the weather 
station nearest to Ms Ss property, on the date of the incident the report indicates a peak 
gust of 59 mph and describes the conditions as dry storm. Based on this, Ive concluded 
there were storm conditions on the date of the incident. 
On the second question, the photographs from Ageass surveyor show damage to the roof 
covering (missing Perspex and some apparent damage to one of the timber supports). That 
the Perspex covering has been blown off is damage we would expect in a storm, particularly 
involving high winds. Similarly, damage to windows (from flying debris) would be something 
Id expect. 
The third question is therefore key, given Ageas declined the claim due to Ms conclusions 
that the cause of the damage was breakdown and deterioration to the timber window frames 
and covered roof. Ageas also refer to the policy terms which excluded loss or damage that 
happened gradually over time and from wear and tear. 
On the damage to the window, Ive considered what Ageas (and Ms S) have said. Having 
done so, Ive concluded Ageas havent acted fairly in declining this element of the claim. Ill 
set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Ms report concluded there was no evidence of damage or recently replaced glass to the 
window. The report also noted visible damage to the window frames, which they considered 
to be wear and tear (so wouldnt be covered under the policy). I dont agree with either point. 
On the first point, Ms S has provided a photograph of a broken window at her property, 
supporting her position that a window was damaged. Shes also provided a copy of an 
invoice from a glazier to replace the glass, dated the day after the incident. Ive no reason to 
doubt the validity of either the photograph or the invoice (£162 including VAT, which seems 
reasonable to replace a single pane of glass. That the pane was quickly replaced is 
reasonable, to secure the property and prevent water ingress. On the point about visible damage to the window frames, I dont think this is relevant, as 
their condition would have had no bearing, or made any difference, to a glass pane being 
broken by a flying hard object. So, Ive concluded Ageas didnt act fairly in applying the 
exclusion to decline the claim. Given this, I havent considered whether  even if the damage 
wasnt considered under storm damage  it would have been covered under the accidental 
damage section of the policy.
Having reached this conclusion, to put things right, Ageas should settle this element of the 
claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any 
policy excess, as applicable).
On the damage to the Perspex roof covering, Ive considered the evidence and information 
available, including Ms report and accompanying photographs of the damaged roof. Having 
done so, Ive concluded Ageas havent acted fairly in declining this element of the claim. Ill 
set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
First, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under a 
policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as Ageas 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I dont think Ageas have done so in the specific circumstances of 
this case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, Ageas refer to the following policy exclusions in the policy booklet:
b) We do not cover any loss or damage that happens gradually over a period of 
time such as rust, corrosion, fading or shrinkage.
c) As with most insurers, you are not covered for any loss or damage resulting 
from wear, tear and depreciation.
Ageas also refer to Ms report conclusions. The full comments in Ms report relating to the 
Perspex roof are as follows:
There was a timber frame bridging the gap between the kitchen and garage to the 
rear elevation, originally the timber frame had a clear corrugated Perspex covering 
however the majority of Perspex was missing. Due to the timber sizes, quality of the 
Perspex covering and design of the covered area the roof was not able to withstand 
the force of the winds. I would recommend the covered area is entirely replaced with 
a more substantial structure and roof covering.
Ms report states (under the heading of Cause:
It is my considered opinion the recent weather conditions have highlighted the 
deterioration and breakdown to the timber window frames and covered roof area 
therefor I recommend the claim is declined. 
The same wording also appears under the Conclusion heading in the report.
However, the detailed comments in Ms report, as set out above, dont specifically refer to 
the condition of the covered roof (either the frame or the Perspex covering) or that it was 
suffering from deterioration or wear and tear (which were the grounds for Ageas applying the exclusion to decline the claim). And looking at the photographs of the covered roof, the 
timber frame has largely remained intact, but the Perspex covering has blown off. The 
former doesnt suggest the timber frame has deteriorated, and theres no obvious signs of 
decay or other deterioration to the frame. That the frame is substantially intact doesnt 
suggest there was an issue with the timber size that led to the Perspex roof being blown off.
 
Taking these points into account  particularly given the onus being on Ageas to show the 
exclusion applies  than Im persuaded the storm conditions are, on balance, the main or 
dominant cause of the damage. 
Taking all these conclusions into account, then Im not persuaded Ageas have shown the 
exclusion applies. And so, they havent acted fairly in declining Ms Ss claim for damage to 
the covered Perspex roof.
Having reached this conclusion, to put things right, Ageas should settle this element of the 
claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any 
policy excess, as applicable). 
As Ive concluded Ageas should settle both the claim for the broken window and the covered 
roof under the storm damage section of the policy, then Id expect this to be treated as one 
claim (and so only apply the policy excess to the claim as a whole  not the individual 
elements).
Ive also considered the question of compensation. Ageas have acknowledged the delay in 
contacting Ms S to arrange an inspection of her property and the damage. From the case 
notes provided by Ageas, they appointed V shortly after Ms S contacted them to tell them 
about the damage and lodge a claim. However, it appears V didnt contact Ms S to arrange a 
visit, and Ageas had to follow up with V about what was happening (when Ms S contacted 
them to say she hadnt heard from V). A visit wasnt arranged until May 2022, some three 
months after the incident. I appreciate insurers were dealing with a large volume of claims 
arising from storms between November 2021 through to the date of the incident (Storm 
Eunice). But I dont think a three-month delay and a lack of communication with Ms S is fair 
or reasonable --especially given her mental health and other issues. 
Ive thought about this, in the circumstances of the case. I think £200 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Ms S.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Ms Ss complaint in part. I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Settle those parts of the claim for damage to the window and the covered roof, in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess under the 
policy, as appropriate).
Pay Ms S £200 in compensation for inconvenience (if they havent already paid it). 
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Ms S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman