DRN-4142959
The complaint
Mr S complains AXA PPP Healthcare Limited caused him concern and inconvenience by 
advising his claim had been paid, before the hospital who provided the treatment received 
the payment. 
What happened
Mr S holds a private medical insurance policy underwritten by AXA PPP. 
In 2022, Mr S made a claim for treatment, which AXA PPP accepted. The insurer wrote to 
Mr S sending him a benefit statement, confirming what had been paid in respect of his claim 
and the excess he needed to pay directly to the hospital. 
Mr S said when he contacted the treating hospital to pay the excess, he was told AXA PPP 
had not paid for his treatment. So he contacted the insurer to query this. AXA PPP said it 
was in the process of making the payment. It said it had been authorised, but payments 
were sent weekly. 
Mr S complained. He said he was concerned to find that despite the statement stating paid 
the hospital had not received the funds for his treatment. Mr S said this caused him concern 
that he could be liable for the funds, and inconvenience as he had to call AXA PPP. He said 
he was provided with incorrect information as the statement should have said the payment 
was being made or had been authorised, rather than paid. 
AXA PPP said it has processes in place for paying providers, itd sent the hospital a 
remittance advice, and nothing had gone wrong. It said it wanted to reassure Mr S that he 
would not have been sued by a hospital after only a few days, and that the provider would 
know to contact the insurer if there were any issues with payment. It said it would take Mr 
Ss suggestion into consideration in terms of the wording of its statements, but it didnt think 
the wording was wrong and conveyed that the treatment was covered. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He said he would like 
an acknowledgement from AXA PPP that use of the word paid was incorrect and 
inappropriate, as well as an apology and an offer in respect of the inconvenience he was put 
to. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
AXA PPP accepted the investigators view. And it said in this case the payment had been 
made, but had not yet reached the hospital.  Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say AXA PPP has a 
responsibility to communicate in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.  
The statement letter AXA PPP sent to Mr S showed What weve paid above the amount it 
had covered for the claim, and You need to pay above the amount of Mr Ss excess. And 
the letter explained Mr S would need to pay that amount direct to the hospital.
The issue at the crux of this complaint, is that Mr S says the statement wording was unclear 
and caused him concern and inconvenience, as he contacted the hospital and it said it had 
not been paid. Ive thought carefully about this, and having done so, I do not uphold this 
complaint for the following reasons: 
I think what is most important for the policyholder to know in these 
circumstances, is that their claim has been accepted, and what amounts if any, 
they are responsible to pay for. I think this was made sufficiently clear in the 
statement issued by the insurer; 
AXA PPP has explained its use of the word paid on the statement. The claim 
was covered and the payment authorised, but had not yet reached the hospitals 
bank account. And I think its reasonable that this terminology was used in the 
circumstances. I also think its reasonable that banking transactions actioned by a 
business will take some time to process and complete;
AXA PPP has said it will consider Mr Ss comments in respect of the wording 
of its statement. I think this is sufficient and I wont be directing AXA PPP to issue 
an apology as Ive not been persuaded that the statement was unclear or 
misleading; and
Mr S contacted AXA PPP promptly and received reassurance that there was 
no error or issue and that it was in the process of paying the hospital. The 
hospital advised Mr S it hadnt received payment on 16 December 2022, and by 
19 December 2022, it said it had received it. So, in terms of the level of 
inconvenience Mr S experienced, I think its fair to say this lasted only a short 
time, and was of no greater significance than a general daily inconvenience 
which we can all expect to experience from time to time. I should also say we 
dont make awards related to the inconvenience of bringing a complaint to our 
service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman