DRN-1895914
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that additional charges were debited to his credit card account by National 
Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) after he'd closed the account.
What happened
Mr G phoned Natwest to close his account in July 2019. He was told the balance 
outstanding by the customer service agent. He then arranged to pay what he'd been told. 
The amount was also the same as what he saw on his banking app at the time.
Mr G's account was closed. But he later found that almost £500 remained outstanding. He 
hadn't known about this because his online statements had stopped. Natwest sent Mr G 
communications looking to collect the outstanding amount and applied charges and interest 
for late payment.
Mr G complained as he'd thought he'd settled everything and couldn't have known about the 
alleged outstanding amounts. Natwest said their customer service agent had got the 
outstanding balance wrong when Mr G spoke with him. They should have told him that there 
could be pending transactions that hadn't yet hit his account. By closing the account and 
stopping the online statements, the bank also accepted that Mr G couldn't have known about 
the outstanding balance.
Natwest apologised and made arrangements to cancel the charges and interest and make 
sure that no adverse entries remained on his credit record. Mr G had to do a lot of chasing 
and Natwest weren't clear with him how the additional transactions were made up. Over the 
course of the complaint, Natwest credited £150 compensation to Mr G's credit card account 
and paid a further £150 compensation to his bank account.
Mr G remained unhappy as he'd been put to a lot of stress over this and it still hadn't been 
made clear to him what the additional transactions were. So he brought his complaint to this 
Service.
Our investigator agreed with Mr G that the service given by Natwest was poor. But he 
thought that the compensation that Natwest had paid was the right amount. He sent Mr G a 
copy of his credit card statements and said that Mr G should check those and identify to 
Natwest any transactions that he didn't recognise. But he thought that it was fair for Natwest 
to expect Mr G to pay the outstanding amounts on his account.
Mr G didn't agree and asked for an ombudsman's review of his complaint. He still doesn't 
think it's been explained how the transactions totalled nearly £500 when he can only see a 
few further charges totalling about £150.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr G will be disappointed to hear that I think that Natwest has already done what I would 
have expected it to do. So I won't be awarding him any further compensation. I'll explain why 
below and hopefully make it a little clearer why the balance was more than Mr G expected.
I can completely appreciate why Mr G is so unhappy with the way he was treated by 
Natwest. There were a number of errors here which Natwest has accepted, apologised for 
and paid compensation. All the problems stem from the incorrect advice Mr G was given 
when he closed his account and that the banking App didn't show the pending transactions.
I've looked at Mr G's statements. And he's right that there's not just a few transactions on 
there, so he can't easily work out what hadn't been accounted for by the agent on the phone. 
Mr G can only find about £150 of additional transactions. I can see how he came to that 
figure. But what he's done is only consider those transactions debited after he made what he 
thought were his final payments. However, any of the transactions over the previous couple 
of days may still have not hit his account at that time. So it's not as simple as just adding up 
the last few transactions.
The other thing that may have caused the confusion, and should be taken into account, is 
that there was an outstanding balance from Mr G's 12 July statement of £190.14. It may be 
that this wasn't included in the figure the agent gave Mr G or that he saw on his app at the 
time.
So, what's gone wrong here is that the agent gave Mr G a final figure for his account when 
he wasn't in a position to do so. Mr G hasn't identified any transactions on the 
statements that aren't his. And there's nothing obviously wrong with the addition. So, I can't 
say that everything recorded on his account doesn't need to be paid by him. That is of 
course other than the charges and interest that have been refunded as they were unfairly 
applied.
In considering the compensation paid, I do think that the £300 that Mr G has received from 
Natwest is fair for the trouble and upset that he experienced. Half of this was credited to his 
bank account and the other half to the credit card.
I know Mr G's concerned about the effect this has had on his reputation and it upset both 
him and his family. But Natwest has taken action to make sure Mr G's credit record isn't 
affected. I appreciate that Mr G doesn't feel that the compensation paid makes up for the 
poor treatment that he received. And I understand why he was concerned that he'd been 
charged for transactions that he thinks he didn't incur. But I'm afraid I haven't found any 
evidence that the transactions appearing on his account are incorrect.
Despite the bank's mistake in giving Mr G the wrong figure, that doesn't mean that the bank 
has to write-off the remaining sum due. I also don't think that crediting half the compensation 
to Mr G's credit card account was unfair. I understand why he thinks it isn't fair and the 
example he's given. But Mr G has assumed the transactions have been applied unfairly and 
I don't think that's the case from the evidence available to me. The compensation had the 
effect of reducing the sum that I've found Mr G would otherwise have had to pay on his card 
account. So he has had the benefit of it.
My final decision
It's my final decision not to uphold Mr G's complaint. And I don't require that National 
Westminster Bank Plc needs to do anything more than it's already done, the sum of £300 
paid already being fair compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman