DRN-2380408
The complaint
Ms O complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2009. The policy was added to 
Ms Os credit card account when she applied for the card over the internet. 
It protected Ms Os card monthly repayments in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint on the basis that Ms O told us she wasnt working 
when she took out the PPI. This wouldve meant Ms O wasnt eligible for the policy because 
she didnt meet the employment criteria and she couldnt have benefitted from having the 
policy. So the fact shed paid for the policy wouldve meant that shed lost out in money 
terms and our adjudicators view was that Capital one should take the steps needed to put 
things right for Ms O.
Capital One disagreed. It said its records showed that Ms O was employed when she 
applied for this PPI and it didnt uphold her complaint that the PPI had been unfairly sold to 
her. It asked our adjudicator to refer the complaint for an ombudsman to look at again if our 
adjudicator still thought the complaint should be upheld.  
Our adjudicator has asked Ms O for further information but we didnt hear anything further. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As things stand, Im thinking about not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Amongst other things, Ms O told us she was unemployed when she took out the PPI. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Ms O is sure about what she told us. But what Ms O says about 
her circumstances at the time she was sold PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold her complaint. I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is 
most likely.
Capital One has provided information that shows it recorded employment details for Ms O 
based on the answers she supplied when she completed the online credit card application. 
Capital One has information about her job role and what Ms O was paid for this employment. 
Weve asked Ms O to tell us a bit more about her circumstances and explained how she can 
obtain information from the tax office that will show if shes right about what she thinks her 
situation was at the exact time she took out this credit card and the PPI. So far, we havent 
heard anything further from Ms O.
Its completely understandable that, after so long, Ms O might have forgotten exactly what 
her circumstances were when she signed up for PPI. And I think its likely that she wouldve 
correctly filled in online her actual employment circumstances at the time. I think the 
electronic record of her online application is unlikely to be unreliable so I think its reasonable 
for me to give weight to what this record shows.
This all makes me think that its more likely that Ms O was employed when she took out the 
PPI. So her employment status wouldnt have made her ineligible to take out the policy. So 
thats not a reason for me to uphold her complaint.
But Ive thought carefully about whether theres any other reason for me to uphold this 
complaint. 
Did Capital One make Ms O aware that the PPI was optional and did she choose to 
have it?
When Ms O applied online for her card she wouldve had to tick a box to say she wanted PPI 
in order to have it added on to her card. 
And when the credit card agreement was prepared and sent to her Ms O electronically ticked 
and signed her credit card agreement. She ticked the box next to where it says: I wish to 
purchase Optional Capital One Payment Protection Insurance. And she signed 
electronically here.
Ms O also signed the completed credit agreement indicating that she agreed with the 
information on the form.
Looked at overall, I think its likely that Ms O chose the PPI, knowing it was up to her to say if 
she wanted it.
Did Capital One give Ms O important policy information in a clear way? And if this 
didnt happen, would it have made any difference?
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms O. This means it didnt need to make sure it 
was suitable for her. But Capital One still had to give Ms O enough clear information so she 
could decide for herself whether or not she wanted it. 
Ms O complained that PPI wasnt explained clearly or thoroughly. 
Its possible not all the information was as clear as it shouldve been. So Ive thought 
carefully about whether Ms O mightve made a different decision about taking out PPI if she 
was given clearer information. I still think she wouldve bought the PPI. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But Ms O wasnt affected by any of the main 
limitations and exclusions that mightve made it harder to make a successful claim - such as 
an unusual employment situation or a pre-existing medical condition. So I dont think having 
more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put her off taking it out.
Ms O told us she had no other ways to pay her monthly outgoings if she wasnt able to work. 
So I think this policy couldve been useful to her as it wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if 
she had an accident or she was too ill to work. And it wouldve also more than covered her card monthly repayments for up to 12 months 
per claim if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. This means that the policy 
couldve cleared her card balance entirely if shed claimed for the whole 12 months. 
Based on everything shes told us, I think Ms O couldve benefitted from the PPI.   
I dont think the PPI cost was made clear to Ms O when she bought the policy. But, from 
what Ive seen, Ms O hasnt suggested that she couldnt afford the monthly premiums when 
she signed up for the policy. She chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to, so it 
seems Ms O wanted this type of cover at the time. 
She was able to cancel the PPI at any time at no extra cost if it was something she felt she 
no longer wanted to pay for.
Looked at overall, I think Ms O still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better 
informed. The policy gave her worthwhile protection in her particular situation. So I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
This means Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Ms O.
But Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms O because: 
Capital One (Europe) plc got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms O about that. Because Capital 
One (Europe) plc didnt tell Ms O, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
Im sorry that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Ms O. But I hope that setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my provisional decision.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Both parties have now seen my provisional decision and neither party has made any further 
comments or sent me anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms O.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Ms O any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman