DRN-2845956
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2003. Miss P says Barclays Bank Plc (Egg) mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Miss P applied for her PPI policy through an online application at the same time as she 
applied for her card. Egg hasnt been able to show us Miss Ps completed online application, 
so Ive considered what we know more widely about how it sold PPI online around this time.
Ive seen screenshots that are likely to be similar to what Miss P saw at the time of sale, and 
these show an option to accept or decline PPI. So, I think its more likely that Egg gave Miss 
P the option to either accept or decline the cover before continuing with her credit card
application. Egg has also given us a copy of the data that was captured from Miss Ps
application, I can see that the yes box has been ticked to confirm she wanted the PPI.
So, I think Egg made it clear that the PPI was optional, and that Miss P chose to take the
policy. 
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Miss P so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it
did have to make sure Miss P got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Egg gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Miss P has told us she would have received substantial sick pay at the time she 
applied for the policy. She also had savings and other insurances that could have helped her 
make the repayments. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Miss Ps sick pay and 
any other insurance. It would also have helped protect her savings so they could be used 
towards other essential expenses.
In addition, as Ive said above Miss P chose to take out the PPI, knowing the other means 
she had at the time to make her repayments - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen of Miss Ps circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss P because:
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Miss P about that. Because Egg didnt tell Miss P, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the
cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But Barclays Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss P any commission and profit share it
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman