DRN-3127790
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain that they were given the wrong early redemption charge (ERC) 
figure when they asked for a redemption figure from The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc. They 
were later given the correct but substantially higher figure. They would like TMW to stick with 
the original figure it gave.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Q had a buy to let property and a mortgage with TMW. They also had a 
mortgage product and if they redeemed the mortgage early, an ERC was payable. An ERC 
is a common way for a lender to protect itself against any losses it may incur because a 
customer redeems a mortgage early. In this case TMW had a schedule of likely ERCs that 
would apply depending on when the mortgage was redeemed and this schedule. appears on 
the mortgage offer of 15 April 2019. The ERC is calculated at 5% of the outstanding balance 
of the mortgage at redemption. According to the schedule if the mortgage was redeemed 
between 1 June 2020 and 31 May 2021, Mr and Mrs Q would pay an ERC in the region of 
£8,349.75.
Because of the Coronavirus Pandemic, Mr and Mrs Q decided to sell their property and 
contacted TMW on 16 February 2021 and were told incorrectly that the ERC was £4,230. Mr 
and Mrs Q proceed with the sale and discovered that the figure theyd been given was 
incorrect. TMW accepted that a mistake had been made but that since Mr and Mrs Q knew 
the correct figure before they exchanged contracts, that they didnt suffer a loss because of 
the misinformation. TMW paid Mr and Mrs Q £100 for their distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he considered 
that it was fair for TMW to charge the ERC in line with the mortgage offer. Mr and Mrs Q 
disagree saying that they were disadvantaged because they had budgeted on the basis of 
information that they were given by TMW.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Q had a buy to let mortgage with TMW that set out the ERC that they would be 
charged if they redeemed the mortgage early. When Mr and Mrs Q redeemed the mortgage 
early in April 2021 TMW charged them the ERC in accordance with the terms of the 
mortgage offer.  Its agreed that in February that Mr and Mrs Q were given a different and 
incorrect figure and Mr and Mrs Q say that they did their calculations based on that figure, 
continued with the sale and have been disadvantaged as a result.
The was a buy to let mortgage which Mr and Mrs Q operated as a business. Although I can 
understand that may have been relying on TMW to give them the exact final ERC on 
redemption I would be surprised if they were relying solely on TMW for the figures to make 
their plans. Mr and Mrs Q had the mortgage offer which sets out clearly what the ERC was 
likely to be. I would have thought that when Mr and Mrs Q were considering the figures that 
they would have to pay when selling the house and making their plans that they would have 
looked up the mortgage offer which would have given them the figure of over £8,000. Its 
accepted that TMW gave them the wrong figure in a phone call and I can understand that Mr 
and Mrs Qs hopes of a lower ERC would have been raised and they deserve compensation 
for that disappointment and the figure of £100 seems appropriate. But given that they had 
access to the calculation of the ERC in the mortgage offer I cant agree that it was 
reasonable for them  to believe that the figure of £4,230  half of what the mortgage offer 
told them - was in fact the correct ERC but rather that it was likely to be an error made by the 
adviser they were talking to. So, I believe that its fair that the correct ERC was charged and 
so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q and Mr Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman