DRN-2085316
The complaint
Ms and Mr A complain TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly lent two guarantor loans, as they 
were unaffordable. Ms and Mr A say this caused them to lose out financially because they 
had to pay additional interest and charges.
What happened
Ms and Mr A have collectively and separately been approved for loans by TFS. These can 
be summarised below. Both loans were guarantor loans:
Loan 
NumberSingle / 
JointApplicant Date Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
One Single Mrs A May 
2014£5,000 48 months £209.73
Two Joint Mrs and Mr A February 
2017£7,500 60 months £293.13
At the time of the loans, Ms and Mr A say they were experiencing financial difficulties. They 
say TFS didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks. They say had TFS done so, 
it wouldve realised the loans were unaffordable to them.
TFS reviewed Ms and Mr As complaint and felt it had approved the loans responsibly. In 
relation to loan one TFS says it completed income and expenditure checks. It says it also 
checked bank statements, and credit files. TFS says these checks were proportionate and 
its decision to lend was fair.
In relation to loan two TFS says it completed an initial credit assessment on Ms A, and 
declined to approve her for the loan. It says it was at this point Mr A agreed to be a joint 
applicant. TFS conducted a further credit assessment on the pair and based on the joint 
income and joint expenses approved the loan.
Our adjudicator looked into the case and felt both loans were unaffordable to Ms and Mr A. 
In reaching this conclusion the adjudicator highlighted Ms A credit history which included a 
CCJ and defaults prior to loan one being approved. In relation to loan two, our adjudicator 
felt more thorough checks wouldve shown Ms and Mr As joint income wasnt sufficient for 
them to sustainably repay the loans. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to issue a final 
decision on. Normally, as this complaint consists of two separate loan applications involving 
different parties, we would handle the complaint separately. However, all parties have 
agreed for both loans to be considered under this single reference number. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms and Mr As complaint. In 
relation to the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice, which applied at the 
time, there are two overarching questions which form our approach. 
For loan one:
1. Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms A 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Ms A wouldve been able to do 
so? 
2. Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
For loan two:
1. Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms A and 
Mr A would be able to repay their loan in a sustainable way? 
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Ms A and Mr A wouldve been 
able to do so? 
2. Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill deal with each question and loan in turn.
Loan one
This loan was taken out by Ms A as a single applicant.
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Ms A, to satisfy itself that she 
was in a position repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
TFS needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to be able to understand if 
any lending was affordable to Ms A. The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it 
has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks could 
include things such as a customers income (over the full term of the loan), and their 
outgoing expenses. These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments 
and total length of the term. The checks also need to be borrower focused.
In relation to repaying the loan in a sustainable way, the industry rules and guidance define 
this as being able to repay without undue difficulties. And in particular the borrower should 
be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; and 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
There was also an obligation on TFS to carefully consider all of the information it is 
presented before deciding to lend, and for it to make a fair decision. One of the things which TFS needed to consider included the overall level of debt a borrower was already in and 
what effect any further credit would have on their future circumstances. 
Loan one was taken out by Ms A as a single applicant. It was for a total of £5,000, with 48 
repayments of £209.73. At the time of applying for the loan Ms A says she was experiencing 
financial difficulties. Ms A says she wanted to take this loan out to help pay for new carpets 
as well as money towards a new car. Ms A also had a dependent. 
TFS says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks. In this instance, it says it asked 
for Ms As income, asked for key expenditure, and completed a credit search. It asked Ms A 
to provide bank statements to verify her income, which she duly did. In terms of expenditure, 
TFS gathered information about Ms As outgoings, and applied a 2% payment to her existing 
mail order account. It says these checks combined were proportionate for the amount being 
lent.
Ive carefully considered what TFS has said about the proportionality of these checks, and in 
this instance, Im satisfied they were proportionate to the loan being offered. As such Ive 
gone to consider if TFS made a fair decision to lend loan one to Ms A.
Did TFS make a fair lending decision to lend loan one to Ms A?
As Ive mentioned above it is not just enough for TFS to complete the checks, it needs to 
carefully consider the information it is provided before it decides to lend. In this instance Ms 
A has provided her bank statements, and Ive reviewed these to understand her financial 
circumstances at the time of the loan.
The bank statements provided are from Ms A and Mr As joint account. Ms A has confirmed 
this in the only account she has access too. The statements show the account was being 
managed to a very tight budget. It also shows that the months leading up to the application, 
Ms A and Mr A were often managing their finances with around £100 disposable income left 
over each month. The account summary shows that in a number of months leading up to the 
application that there was more money leaving the account then going into it. 
The transactions of the account show that the outgoings were higher than those declared on 
the application form. The statements also show that Ms A (and Mr A) has supplemented 
their income with other forms of credit such as payday loans. 
As Ive explained above, the repayments which Ms A had to make needed to be sustainable. 
This means she can meet the repayments without undue difficulties, such as borrowing 
further or going into debt. As the account shows a low disposable amount each month, Im 
not satisfied there was sufficient income for Ms A to meet these payments. And on that 
basis, Im persuaded this loan shouldnt have been approved to Ms A.
Loan two
Loan two was taken as a joint application by Ms A and Mr A.
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Ms A and Mr A, to satisfy itself 
that they were in a position repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
Loan two was taken in February 2017 and was for a total capital of £7,500. The loan was to 
be repaid with 60 monthly repayments of £293.13. Initially this loan was applied for by Ms A 
on her own. TFS says it completed an initial credit assessment on Ms A, and declined to 
approve her for the loan. It says it is at this point Mr A agreed to be a joint applicant. Ms A and Mr A say this loan was to consolidate the existing loan Ms A had, as well as using 
money to pay for a new kitchen or car.
TFS says it completed an income and expenditure check on both applicants; as well as 
checking the credit file for them both. It says these checks were proportionate for the amount 
being borrowed. It says these checks showed Ms A and Mr A had around £390 disposable 
income per month. 
Ive carefully considered what TFS has said about the proportionality of these checks; but 
ultimately, I disagree these were proportionate. As TFS have said itself, it completed a credit 
assessment on Ms A when she applied for the first loan, and this included verifying her 
income via bank slips. Considering this loan was for a higher amount, and over a longer 
period, Im satisfied that TFS shouldve conducted similarly thorough checks on this loan too.
I appreciate TFS completed checks on Mr A as well, but I dont think these alone were 
sufficient to say the checks were proportionate. I say this because Ms A sole application was 
deemed as unaffordable, and her credit fie search demonstrated that she had other existing 
commitments. 
So, bearing the above in mind, Im satisfied TFS shouldve got a further understanding of 
both Ms As and Mr As circumstances before proceeding with the loan. And on that basis, 
Im satisfied that the checks in this instance were not proportionate. 
Would those checks have shown that Ms A and Mr A wouldve been able to sustainably 
repay the loan?
As I mentioned above, Im satisfied that TFS shouldve got a thorough understanding of     
Ms A and Mr As financial circumstances before approving the loan. It couldve achieved this 
by requesting bank statements.
Our service has been provided with further copies of Ms As and Mr As joint account from 
the time prior to loan two being approved. Looking through these statements, it shows that 
Ms As and Mr As financial situation had declined significantly.
The statements show the joint account is heavily into the overdraft; sometimes approaching 
£2,000 overdrawn. The account summaries show that the account is being managed to a 
very tight budget with less than £100 money being added to the account compared to the 
overall outgoings.
The outgoings also show that Ms A and Mr A are supplementing their income with other 
forms of credits such as pay day loans. The outgoings also show that Ms A is making 
minimal payments to her existing credit cards too. 
As has been explained above, TFS needed to be confident that Ms A and Mr A could meet 
any repayment sustainably. This means Ms A and Mr A making any payments without any 
undue difficulty or having to borrow further. Im satisfied that having reviewed these 
statements, that Ms A and Mr A wouldnt have been able to meet these repayments 
sustainably. 
And Im satisfied that had TFS conducted further checks it wouldve realised this too, and as 
such shouldnt have approved this loan either. 
Putting things rightNormally our service would instruct TFS to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been had no error occurred. That isnt possible because ultimately Ms A and Mr A 
have had the benefit of the capital which has been provided. 
However, we would usually ask TFS to remove any interest and charges, and to treat any 
payments which Ms A and Mr A have made as a reduction of the capital amount. We would 
ask the lender to refund any overpayments with interest and to remove any adverse 
information on Ms As and Mr As credit file. 
I think this approach applies in this case too. This is because Ive concluded that loan one 
was lent in an unsustainable way; and as such the refinancing which occurred in loan two 
was making this even more unsustainable to Ms A, and by extension Mr A. As such the loan 
shouldnt have been provided. Because of this Im satisfied Ms A and Mr A is entitled to a full 
refund of the interest, fees and charges which have been applied to both loans.
As such I required TFS to do the following:
Loan one 
Refund all interest and charges Ms A paid on loan one;
pay Ms A 8% simple interest on the refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid to date of settlement;
Remove any adverse information on Ms As credit file in relation to loan one
Loan two
Remove any interest and charges applied to Ms A and Mr As account from when it 
was opened;
Treat any payments that Ms A and Mr A have made as a reduction of the principle 
amount;
If this results in Ms A and Mr A having paid more than what was initially lent, then any 
extra should be treated as an overpayment and refunded to them plus 8% simple 
interest on this amount from date of payment to date of settlement;
If an outstanding balance remains on the account after all adjustments have been 
made, then TFS needs to come to suitable repayment plan with Ms A and Mr A to 
pay off the remaining amount;
Remove any adverse information on Ms As and Mr As credit file in relation to loan 
two.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 Tom Whittington
Ombudsman