DRN-2499402
The complaint
This is a complaint that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mr M. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy was sold to 
Mr M when he applied for the card by filling in an application form.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
I think RBS made Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it  
although I can understand if he can no longer remember this. Mr M signed to apply for PPI 
just below where I can see the form says:
CARDHOLDER PAYMENT PROTECTION PLAN  I have read and understood the 
[illegible] of cover for [the] Payment Protection Plan. I understand that it could offer 
protection for repayment [on?] my Credit Card Account in the event of my being unable 
to work through unemployment, accident or illness and I would like to take advantage of 
it
Mr M has said he thought he was signing for Credit Card Sentinel which he applied for by 
ticking a box. This appeared in the column to the left of the Credit Card Protection Plan 
section. But I think the wording Ive quoted above makes reasonably clear that he was 
applying for an insurance against unemployment and sickness, and that he was free to make 
the choice. 
I dont think RBS recommended the PPI, in the sense of saying it was particularly suitable for 
Mr Ms individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. 
But it did have to give him reasonable information. And its difficult now to know how well 
RBS explained the PPI. Its possible the information RBS gave Mr M  about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been  the information on the form wasnt full enough, and I dont 
know what other information was given at the time. But I dont think its likely fuller 
information about costs and benefits would have affected whether he took the PPI. I say this 
because, in his circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful. 
He was eligible for the policy and so potentially could make a claim; it doesnt appear to 
have been unaffordable; and it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any of the 
significant exclusions in the policy. 
Mr M has said he took out an accident and injury policy a few months later and this made the 
PPI unnecessary. First, that policy seems to give a different type of cover. But, more 
importantly, it wouldnt affect whether the earlier sale of the PPI was wrong. And once Mr M 
took on the other insurance, it wouldnt be fair to say RBS should have advised him about 
the suitability of continuing with the PPI  even if it was aware of the new policy, which is 
unlikely. 
So I havent found that the PPI was mis-sold. This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M 
because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman