DRN-2391115
Complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr R says AXA France IARD mis-sold him PPI.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
The policy provided cover for life, accident, sickness and unemployment subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 15% of Mr Rs store card balance in the event 
of Mr R being unable to work due to accident, sickness and unemployment. 
The policy was part of a product called Account Cover which also provided (alongside PPI)  
Purchase and Price protection. Mr R hasnt complained about these elements of the 
insurance policy so I will not consider them further in this decision. 
At the time, the policy cost £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium 
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest. Mr R 
paid a total of £27.17 in premiums for the policy. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. AXA has given me a copy of the store card agreement that Mr R signed. In this, 
there was a separate section titled Account Cover which included PPI. This said: only 
sign this box if you require Account Cover. Mr R signed the section to confirm he wanted 
the PPI, and I think it was equally clear he could have left the section blank if he didnt 
want it. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right 
or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr R enough clear and timely information so he 
could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr R. Although Mr R says he had a 
broken arm around nine years before the policy was taken out, I dont think better 
information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused him to 
change his mind about taking out the policy. I say this because this appears to have 
been an isolated incident which he recovered from and didnt cause him any ongoing 
issues that were affecting him at the time of the sale. It also looks like it was affordable  
so it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because of 
this I dont think Mr R would have declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think 
he would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr R would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Rs particular case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman