DRN-1845408
The complaint
In summary, Mr M is unhappy that Calpe Insurance Company Limited paid a third party 
claim in respect of a motor accident he was involved in. He doesnt think it properly 
investigated the claim and didnt contact him.
What happened
Mr M was involved in a motor accident in February 2019. After the claim was reported, Calpe 
liaised with the third-partys representatives. Mr M told Calpe that he hadnt received letters 
from it and was unable to open an attachment sent in an e-mail to him. 
The third partys representative said that it though Mr M was at fault for the accident. It 
provided a witness statement from a lorry driver who was driving behind the third-party 
vehicle. It also told Calpe that CCTV footage was available from the bus, but a form would 
need to be signed for it to be released. 
Calpes claim records record that Mr M supplied a photo of the third-party vehicle and an 
accident report in which he said he didnt think the accident was his fault.
The notes also show that the third party was looking to recover £469 in repairs and £172 for 
loss of use of the vehicle. The third partys representative provided Calpe with an accident 
cost report which showed the repair work that had been carried out as a result of the 
accident. 
Calpe decided that Mr M was at fault. It said it relied on the witness statement the third-party 
representative had supplied. It didnt think it needed to request the CCT footage. And as the 
claim was only for a small amount it didnt think it was economical to pursue the claim and 
would pay the figure the third-party representative had requested.
Mr M wasnt happy when Calpe told him of its decision. He maintained he wasnt responsible 
and thought that the third-party had claimed for pre accident damage along with the damage 
caused in the accident. 
Calpes records show that it told Mr M it had settled the claim as a fault claim and any 
issues, he now had, needed to be raised with its recoveries team. 
Mr Ms concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. She didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint, so the case has been passed to me for review. 
I wrote to Calpe on 10 July 2020 outlining my initial thoughts on the complaint. I explained 
why I thought there were inconsistencies with the damage caused and the repairs that were 
claimed. 
Calpe responded on 3 August 2020. It said in summary that the damage to the vehicle was 
very minor and it was very unlikely that a reputable company like the third party would seek 
to profit from a claim. It went on to say that it received the invoice, which contained a 
description of the repairs. The amount claimed was a reasonable cost and so the claim was 
settled.
As stated in the investigators assessment, there was no evidence to support that the third-
party vehicle had any pre-existing damage and the repair costs are reasonable for the 
damage caused.
Mr M told us that he hadnt paid any money to Calpe in respect of his excess in relation to 
this claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms claim was handled by a claims agent on behalf of Calpe. But, Calpe as the insurer is 
responsible for the issues complained about. So, Ive referred to Calpe throughout my 
decision.
Ive thought about what Mr M has said about Calpe not contacting him. Ive seen the contact 
record in respect of the claim. I can see that Calpe made a number of attempts to contact Mr 
M and there was correspondence between it and Mr M. So, Im satisfied that Calpe did 
contact Mr M.
The terms of Mr Ms policy provided Calpe with the discretion to settle the claim as it felt 
appropriate. But in doing so it still had to exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way. 
In considering the issue of liability, its not for me to determine who was responsible for the 
accident. That is a matter for the courts to decide. But I can consider if Calpe acted fairly in 
how it investigated the issue of liability and whether it reached a reasonable decision based 
on the available evidence. And I can also consider if Calpe carried out a fair investigation 
into the losses claimed by the third party.
Liability
Looking at the available evidence I dont think it was unreasonable of Calpe to deal with the 
issue of liability in the way that it did. I say this because in addition to what Mr M told it about 
the accident, Calpe was provided with an independent witness statement from a driver who 
witnessed the accident. This set out what the witness saw and provided a sketch of the 
accident. The witness explained that Mr M had overtaken the bus and the accident occurred 
when he pulled back into the lane to avoid oncoming traffic. And the outline of the accident 
wasnt dissimilar to what Mr M had told Calpe. 
Ive noted that the third partys representative told Calpe that CCTV footage was available 
from the vehicle. But Calpe didnt think it needed to request this based on the information it 
had. And although Calpe could have requested the CCTV footage, it was ultimately for it to 
decide whether it needed it, in order for it to make a call on liability. It decided it wasnt 
necessary as it concluded based on the information it had, that Mr M was at fault for the 
accident. And having looked at the information it had and the investigation it carried out, I 
cant say in this case that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in making that decision in respect 
of the issue of liability.  
Third party lossesIn support of its claims, the third-party representative provided Calpe with an accident cost 
report. This set out a description of the damage and the nature of the repairs. The damage 
was described as being to the nearside front (N/S/F) bumper damaged, front destination 
glass cracked, N/S mirror arm broken off and body damage to N/S/F corner. The repairs 
were described as the destination glass being replaced, outside front (OSF) bumper and 
NSF corner repaired and painted. 
Looking at the information Calpe had about the accident it seems to me that there were 
some discrepancies between the circumstances of the accident, the apparent damage 
caused, and the description of the damage and the repairs set out in the accident cost report 
it was provided with. 
I say this because it seems that the damage occurred to the third-party vehicles outside 
front corner when Mr M tried to pull back into the lane after he overtook the third-party 
vehicle. Mr M provided Calpe with photos of the third-party vehicle. And these show damage 
to the outside front bumper and corner which appears to be consistent with the information 
that had been provided to Calpe about the accident.
What I find difficult to reconcile with this information is the details of the damage outlined in 
the accident cost report. This clearly refers to damage and repairs being carried out to the 
NSF as well as the destination glass. So, taking account of where the damage to the third-
party vehicle appears to have occurred, I cant see why damage to the NSF and destination 
glass was claimed and those repairs carried out.
Mr M raised his concerns with Calpe that a claim for pre-existing damage may have been 
made. Calpe didnt respond to that and simply told Mr M to contact its recoveries 
department. 
It seems to me that given the apparent inconsistencies that Ive summarised, Calpe should 
have gone back to the third-party representative to clarify why the other repairs were being 
claimed. But it chose not to and appears to have taken the approach that the claim was 
relatively small, and it didnt think the third party would exaggerate the claim.
In its response to my e-mail of 10 July 2020, Calpe has maintained the position it had 
already articulated in respect of the repairs. It hasnt in my view provided a sufficient 
explanation of the inconsistencies that Ive set out, to persuade me to change the opinion 
that I expressed in my e-mail of 10 July 2020.
As a result, I remain of the view that Calpe hasnt investigated the losses claimed by the 
third-partys representatives in a fair and reasonable way. Although I dont think Calpe 
necessarily needed the CCTV to decide liability, it does seem to me that given the 
discrepancies Ive outlined above, this might have been useful in identifying the point of 
impact and the damage caused to the third-party vehicle. The third-party representative has 
told Calpe that this cant currently be accessed by its insured as no one is able to enter its 
offices. 
In addition, Mr M had a significant excess on his policy. So ultimately, he was going to have 
to pay the third-party costs. And the terms of Mr Ms policy say that:
We will settle all claims on the best terms available and keep the claim payment to a 
minimum as much as is possible. 
But for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think Calpe did that in this case. And I dont think it 
has treated Mr M fairly by not making appropriate enquiries into the losses claimed by the 
third-party. Given what Ive said above, it seems to me that the appropriate course of action would have 
been for Calpe to have rejected the third party-claim on the basis that it had been 
exaggerated and it shouldnt pay anything in those circumstances. 
Putting things right
Mr M should not have to pay any of the costs Calpe incurred as a result of it settling the 
claim in the way that it did. Calpe should not recover those costs from Mr M and it should 
waive his excess.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out I uphold Mr Ms complaint about Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman