DRN-4348104
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited, who Ill call MotoNovo.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I dont think theres sufficient evidence this car was 
misrepresented to him. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) is relevant here. In broad terms this means 
that any negotiations between Mr P and the dealership or credit broker, are deemed to have 
been conducted by the dealership or credit broker as an agent of MotoNovo. 
If Mr P was given a false statement of fact or law, and if that false statement was a 
significant reason why he entered into the agreement, I may think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to him.
Here, Mr P says he told the dealership that the car would be required for long journeys and 
that it clearly wasnt as he says it was unreliable and had already covered significant 
mileage.
Hes not provided any further evidence to corroborate his assertion and the dealership 
havent agreed that was the case.
Theres nothing in the contractual paperwork that suggests the dealership told Mr P the car 
was especially capable of long journeys. So, I dont think it would be fair to suggest a false 
statement of fact had been made to Mr P on that basis. Theres no dispute that the mileage 
on the agreement was misstated either, so I dont think a false statement of fact was made 
on that basis either: it appears that Mr P must have been aware of the mileage on the car 
when he took receipt of it. Im not, therefore, persuaded I have sufficient evidence the car 
was misrepresented to Mr P.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman