DRN-2180294
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) caused delays to his payment being 
sent internationally which caused him distress, inconvenience and to lose out financially. 
What happened
On 19 June 2019 Mr M visited a branch of Barclays to make a priority international payment 
to a hotel for an upcoming trip. He says the payment details were printed out from an email 
and handed to the member of staff. Once the member of staff input the details, he was given 
a form to check and sign to confirm the details were correct. Mr M says he signed the form 
but didnt check it because he trusted the staff member. 
Ultimately, whilst the payment was made to the correct account, the wrong name was used 
on the transfer form so the hotel couldnt accept it for his booking. Mr Ms explained the 
email from the hotel was confusing and some of it was in a different language so overall he 
doesnt know how the error happened or whose fault it was. But hes said he doesnt blame 
the staff member in the branch. Around two days after the payment was made, the hotel 
asked Mr M to amend the name so the payment could be accepted. 
Mr M called Barclays on most days between 22 June 2019 and 1 July 2019 in the morning 
and afternoon for updates on what was happening with the payment. Barclays has given us 
recordings of these calls. Initially Mr M asked if Barclays could amend the name on the 
payment rather than cancelling it and resending it. But Barclays said it couldnt do that as the 
receiving bank had returned the funds already. So it said it would have to wait for the funds 
to be received and then resend the payment. Mr M was also told there was now a shortfall in 
the amount and it was agreed Barclays would look to cover it if possible. 
The funds were received back by Barclays on 26 June 2019 and on 28 June 2019 Mr M was 
told the payment had been marked as urgent to be resent. He was told the payment hadnt 
already been resent because the team needed authorisation to cover the shortfall as agreed. 
The payment was resent the next working day  1 July 2019. 
Mr M says the hotel couldnt confirm his reservation until the correct payment was made so 
he didnt want to risk booking flights for himself and his family. Once the payment was made, 
the original direct flights hed planned to book were no longer available at the same price. 
Instead he booked indirect flights with a long stop over at a higher price.
Mr M says Barclays could have treated his payment more urgently. He says it kept promising 
the payment would be made within a day but it took around a week more. He thinks it could 
have processed things quicker if it had asked him to cover the shortfall rather than delaying 
things whilst getting authorisation. And it could have amended the name on the payment 
rather than cancelling it and resending it.  
Barclays didnt think the incorrect name on the transfer form was its error. And it said the 
international team had worked within its standard timescales for returning payments. So, it 
didnt think it was responsible for Mr M missing out on the cheaper flights. But it did 
recognise Mr M could have been given a better service rather than being told to call for 
updates daily. So it offered him £10 to cover the cost of his calls and £50 as compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. It also covered the shortfall in the amount 
of the payment from the receiving bank which it says was caused by a change in the 
exchange rate and an extra fee. And it covered the initial transfer fee.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr M asked our service to look into things. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought Mr M should have checked the form 
before signing it and the delay in resending the payment was unavoidable. She also didnt 
think there was a guarantee Mr M wouldve been able to book a cheaper, more convenient 
flight even if there wasnt a delay. She recognised Barclays couldve handled things better 
but thought the compensation offered made up for this. Mr M didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion so the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M has had a very difficult and stressful time caused by the delay in the payment. 
And despite this I can see hes remained very patient throughout this time. But Ive decided 
not to uphold his complaint, I know will be very disappointing for him. Ill explain why. 
The delay in making the international payment was caused by an error on the transfer form. 
Had the error not happened, from what Ive seen, the payment would have been with the 
hotel within a few days. Barclays has said it doesnt think the error was the fault of its staff 
member and Mr M doesnt seem to have disputed this. 
Mr M was given the payment form to check and confirm the details were correct before the 
payment was processed. I know hes said the email with the payment details from the hotel 
was confusing so he thinks he wouldnt have been able to tell if there was anything wrong. 
But considering the importance of the transaction to Mr M  and how confusing hes said the 
details were for everyone involved  I think its reasonable to expect he would have checked 
it over carefully or even confirmed the parts he was uncertain about with the hotel. And had 
he done so, I think its more likely the delay couldve been avoided. 
Ive listened carefully to all the calls Barclays has sent us. By the time Mr M first spoke to the 
international team about there being a problem with the name on the payment, the call 
handler explained to him it had already been returned by the receiving bank. And she said 
that meant they couldnt just change the name and instead would need to wait for the 
payment to be received before sending it again. And I think thats reasonable. For the next 
few days, Barclays seemed to have been waiting for the payment to be returned  and I 
think its unlikely there was anything they could do to speed that process up. 
Once the payment was returned, it took around three working days for it to be resent to the 
hotel. I understand from the calls, the payment wasnt resent immediately because Barclays 
investigation team needed to authorise the shortfall being covered  and this was carried out 
the day after the payment was received. I accept things might have been a little quicker if 
Barclays had asked Mr M to cover the shortfall himself. But from what Ive seen, this 
authorisation was required because Mr M asked Barclays to cover it. And in any event, the 
authorisation only took one day so I dont think it wouldve made a significant difference to 
how long things took overall. I appreciate it must have been frustrating that the call handlers didnt give Mr M any certainty 
over when the payment would be received or resent. But overall, from what Ive seen, I dont 
think they were in a position to give him any further information because what they were 
waiting for was outside of their control. I dont think it was ideal Mr M was often asked to call 
back more than once a day to see if there was any change and I accept this wouldve been 
very inconvenient for him. Particularly as he often had to speak to more than one person on 
each call and usually needed to explain the situation to each person. But I can see Barclays 
has offered Mr M compensation to make up for this alongside the amount it covered for the 
shortfall when his funds were returned. And I think thats reasonable in this case. 
I understand Mr M wants Barclays to cover the difference in the cost of his flight and 
compensate him for the stress of having to travel by the very inconvenient indirect flight. But 
for the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded Barclays could have done much more to 
significantly speed things up. So ultimately I dont think its done anything wrong and I dont 
think its responsible for any further costs Mr M had to pay. In any event, if it had reduced 
delays where it was possible, I cant be satisfied on what Ive seen, its more likely than not it 
wouldve made a difference to the availability or price of the flights.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman