DRN-4285176
The complaint
Mr I has complained The Royal Bank of Scotland plc added a marker against his name onto 
the industry fraud database, CIFAS, and closed his account.
What happened
RBS contacted Mr I in July 2022 to query a payment hed received into his account. This 
was for £20,000. Mr I confirmed this was funds hed received on behalf of a friend from 
crypto sales which hed been asked to send on to this friends family and acquaintances.
As RBS knew the money into Mr Is account had been transferred as the result of a 
malicious scam, they decided to close his account and added a fraud-related marker against 
his record. They felt the evidence theyd seen indicated Mr I was aware of what had 
happened and had been involved.
Mr I brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He also presented evidence  texts 
from his friend to show Mr I hadnt been aware of what was going on.
Our investigator felt the evidence showing payments made by Mr I using the remainder of 
funds indicated hed benefitted from this fraud. She wasnt going to ask RBS to do anything 
further.
Mr I continued to protest. An ombudsman will consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. Specifically:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So RBS must be able to provide clear evidence that a financial crime was being committed 
and Mr I was involved. 
Ive seen the evidence about the funds paid into Mr Is account. These were the result of 
someone being scammed. Theres no doubt this money wasnt his.
Before this money was received into Mr Is account, his balance was under £10. Within a 
day of the money being received, money was sent to five different individuals. Ive seen texts 
from Mr Is friends which talks about these payments being made.
This left more than £1,300 in Mr Is account. He then gave £450 to a friend who he said he 
owed money to and then there were lower transactions all authorised by Mr I. At the time 
RBS queried this payment and blocked Mr Is account, he still held nearly £500 from this 
fraudulent credit in his account.
Ive reviewed what happened and considered Mr Is evidence that he was making transfers 
on behalf of a friend. He may well not have known this was a fraudulent credit. However as 
soon as he was willing to accept funds in exchange for receiving this money, he was being 
paid, I believe, for the risk he was taking. So Im satisfied Mr I was willing to be involved in 
something when he believed all wasnt above board.
Overall Im satisfied that RBS had sufficient clear evidence to lodge the CIFAS marker and 
close Mr Is account.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Is complaint against The Royal 
Bank of Scotland plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman