DRN-1708182
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited refused to provide an extra year of cover 
for the late Mrs B under his spouse/partner life insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a spouse/partner life insurance policy with Aviva through his employer in
April 2018. In October 2018 Mrs B turned 65. 
In April 2019 the age restriction on Avivas policy came to Mr Bs attention after making a 
claim to another insurer under a critical illness policy. After contacting Aviva through his 
employer, Aviva decided not to extend its cover for Mrs B because she was over the age of 
65. So she was no longer eligible for a policy in line with its terms and conditions. 
Mr B was unhappy with this decision so he made a complaint. He said he didnt think it was 
acceptable for Aviva to have not noticed Mrs B was no longer eligible for cover after her 65th 
birthday. 
Aviva reviewed the complaint but decided to uphold its decision. In a letter (which was sent 
in June 2019) it said it had made an oversight by not making it clear to Mr Bs employer that 
its employers benefits portal should remove members from these schemes when the cease 
age (65) is reached. But the terms and conditions of the policy are clear that cover ends at 
the age of 65 or state pension age. It added that Mr B had also been offered a refund of the 
premiums he had paid since his wife had turned 65. 
Mr B remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. He said Aviva had failed 
to notice on its system that Mrs B had reached the policy cease age of 65. He felt he 
shouldve been made aware of this policy term when he took out the policy in 2018 so he 
couldve made alternative arrangements. And when this was flagged in April 2019, after his 
wifes diagnosis, Aviva shouldve offered to continue with his cover for a further year 
because it wouldve been aware he wouldnt have been able to get his wife cover with 
another insurance company.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but decided not to uphold it. He said that as Mr Bs 
employer is Avivas customer, the information about this policy shouldve been displayed 
through its benefits system. He added that the terms of the policy are clear that there is no 
further cover for anyone who is over 65 or the state pension age. He felt that although there 
was confusion between Aviva and Mr Bs employer, he didnt think he could ask Aviva to 
extend this policy for a further year. And Avivas offer to return the premiums back to when 
Mrs B turned 65 was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr B disagreed. He said Aviva accepted the policy in 2018 knowing it wouldnt last the full 
year and failed to flag this to him. He said Aviva failed in its duty of care to provide him with 
the policy terms so they could be understood and accepted when the policy was renewed. 
He added that because Aviva has said it will change its procedures to make sure this doesnt 
happen again, he should be offered compensation for its error. So this complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I was sorry to find out about the death of Mrs B. Im sure this has been a very difficult 
time for Mr B and his family. 
After carefully weighing up all the evidence presented by both sides, Im afraid Im not 
upholding this complaint. I know this will be very disappointing news for Mr B. I want to 
assure him that I didnt take this decision lightly. While I dont want to add to his distress, I 
cant say Aviva has acted unfairly by refusing to extend the policy by another year. Ill explain 
why.
I understand Mr Bs frustration with this situation and that this meant he wasnt able to find 
suitable cover with another insurer once his wife turned 65. But having reviewed the 
evidence, I cant reasonably say this was as a result of a mistake Aviva made.  
I note Mr B is unhappy with how this policy was sold and the information available to him at 
the time. But whether he was mis-sold the policy isnt a finding I can look at here. I can only 
make a decision on whether Avivas decision to not extend this policy so Mr B can claim is 
fair. And in the circumstances, due to Mrs B passing the cease age of 65 in October 2018 
Aviva doesnt have to extend its cover.
I also havent seen any evidence that it was up to Aviva to send the policy documentation to 
Mr B when he renewed the policy in April 2018. As the policy was sold through Mr Bs 
employers benefits portal, I believe this information shouldve been available at this point. 
And I dont believe it was Avivas responsibility to highlight this information at that time. I 
appreciate Mr B says he wasnt aware of the issue with his wifes age when he renewed the 
policy in April 2018, or had sight of this information. But I believe this is an issue he should 
take up with his employer in relation to how the policy was sold. I acknowledge this wont be 
a satisfactory response for Mr B, but I cant hold Aviva responsible for the information that 
was or wasnt properly highlighted when he took out this policy. 
Aviva has acknowledged and apologised for any communication issues between itself and 
Mr Bs employer. But even so, I dont agree that Mr B should as a result of these 
communications receive compensation. This is because Avivas customer is Mr Bs 
employer which is why it mentioned its reliant on his employers flexible benefits portal 
removing anyone who is no longer covered. And any communication issues between them 
which involve Mr Bs employers benefits page are for those two companies to resolve. 
I agree with the Investigator that Aviva has said it would treat all its customers the same in 
similar circumstances, so Mr B hasnt been treated unfairly. And as Mr B has now received a 
return of premiums (through his employer) back to when Mrs B turned 65 and was no longer 
covered by the policy  I believe that is a fair outcome. 
So Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman