DRN-2730148
The complaint
Mr B brings a complaint about a Sun Life Guaranteed Over 50s policy, sold to his late 
mother in 1992. He says in summary that it wasnt right for her circumstances, and she was 
unaware she could have surrendered the policy. Mr B also complains that his mother paid 
more in contributions than the value of the policy when it was paid out in March 2020.    
What happened
Mr Bs mother responded to Sun Lifes advertisement for a whole of life policy, choosing a 
monthly premium of £17. For that premium, the policy had agreed life cover of £4,095.  
The operation of the policy was taken over by AXA in 1997, Friends Life in 2011 and finally, 
Aviva in October 2017.  
Mr Bs mother sadly passed away in early 2020. In March 2020, Aviva paid the policys sum 
assured to Mr B, with interest from 26 February 2020.  
At this time, Mr B also complained. Aviva rejected the complaint. It said the sum assured 
was calculated at the start of the policy and depended on both Mr Bs mothers age at the 
time of applying and the monthly premium she chose to pay. If a policyholder paid more in 
premiums than the sum assured would depend on when that person passes away; it cannot 
be predicted by Sun Life or Aviva as the policy wasnt subject to medical underwriting.     
Aviva also confirmed that Sun Life sent Mr Bs mother relevant policy literature, terms and 
conditions and a cancellation notice, though it didnt have a copy of them. 
Mr B brought the complaint to this service. He said it could not be fair that she had paid 
£5,661 in premiums and the sum assured was capped. He said Aviva hadnt answered as to 
the poor value that the policy represented nor had it explained why his mother was unaware 
she could cash in the policy. He believed that she had hoped the policy would provide 
funeral expenses, but the sum assured paid around half of that cost.  
Mr B also explained that he didnt think his mother understood how the policy operated but 
he believed shed have cancelled it many years ago if she had been told by Aviva about the 
premiums exceeding the sum assured.   
An investigator reviewed the complaint, but he didnt think it should succeed. He said that 
Sun Life hadnt given Mr Bs mother any advice, and she took out the policy through a direct 
postal advertisement. He said that the policy literature did make clear that a policyholder 
may pay more in premiums than is paid out at surrender, and since the policy did not have 
any medical underwriting, no estimate was made on how long it might be held for. 
Mr B said he wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. He said he accepted 
that the policy was sold without advice. But it remained that his mother was never told she 
could cash it in earlier, and what the value would have been on that basis. She had 
mistakenly believed she had to keep paying into the policy for life.  
Mr B said he questioned how each business could sit back and take the premiums long after 
the policy served any real value once the premiums paid exceeded the sum assured. If 
Aviva or any of the previous businesses had told his mother the accurate position, he 
believed shed have taken a cash-in value and saved the further outgoings. This would have 
been particularly important for the type of older customers targeted for the life cover. 
Aviva didnt make any further comments.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience as I understand it has been some time before 
this matter has reached an ombudsmans decision. Id also like to send my condolences to 
Mr B for his loss. Though this wont be what Mr B has hoped for, I do not consider the 
complaint should succeed. Ill explain why that is below.  
Because of the passage of time since the policy was taken out, Aviva no longer retains 
evidence of the precise details of the policy sold to Mr Bs mother. I would reasonably expect 
that the previous businesses had destroyed any data they hold, in accordance with data 
protection legislation. However, Aviva has been able to provide the marketing information 
that Sun Life sent to customers at the time, along with Mr Bs mothers application. 
When the policy was marketed to her, Mr Bs mother had selected a predetermined sum 
assured, by ticking a box on the form, choosing the premium value from one of six set values 
 ranging from £5 to £25 each month. She chose a £17 premium.  
Once Mr Bs mother had returned the form to Sun Life, Aviva says it then sent policy 
documentation confirming the whole of life cover and the sum assured of £4,095. 
Having looked at the marketing information, it confirms how the policy has no surrender 
value for the first five years  instead paying a calculation of 150% of the premiums paid in 
for the cover. Thereafter the sum assured was set at the agreed level; it remained 
unchanged for the whole of the policyholders life as long as premiums were maintained.  
I recognise that the application information Ive seen does not specifically set out a cash-in 
value. But I dont consider that its likely Mr Bs mother would have surrendered the policy on 
that basis. Whole of life policies are designed to be held until a policyholder passes away, 
and Mr B recognises his mother wanted the cover for anticipated future funeral costs. 
Further, I have seen Avivas correspondence where it provided an update about the cash-in 
value. On 7 November 2019 it wrote to Mr Bs mother to explain it had increased the cash-in 
value to £3,052.82. This figure is lower than the sum assured, and not guaranteed. I dont 
believe it likely, on balance, that Mr Bs mother did want or would have wanted to cancel the 
cover, given Mr Bs point about the premiums paid of over £5,600 at that time. 
Over 50s policies are a specific type of non-reviewable (where the premium cannot change) 
whole of life policy, usually marketed for funeral costs where the insuring business does not 
require proof of health  and therefore it cannot know from the outset anything about a 
policyholders life expectancy. 
General sums assured are offered based on three variables, age, gender and the premium 
selected. It is for that reason the key features sets out that a person can pay more into the 
policy than the guaranteed death benefit if he or she pays premiums for a longer term  in 
Mr Bs mothers case this was the case if she paid premiums for more than 20 years. I realise it has come as a surprise to Mr B that the cover was not what he says his mother 
believed it to be. But Aviva (and previously Sun Life) did not provide any advice or 
recommendation to take out the policy. Though there is a misunderstanding about the nature 
of the policy, I dont think Aviva is at fault for that. Sun Life supplied product literature which 
was clear and not misleading. It was for Mr Bs mother to review the information about the 
policy to decide if she wanted to go ahead with it or not.
That Aviva has since applied an age cap at which a policy of this nature becomes paid up  
where no further premiums are collected  doesnt alter my findings on the sale of the policy. 
I know this could have meant Mr Bs mother had paid more premiums until she reached the 
cap had she lived longer, but this couldnt be known by either party in 1992. And as Ive said 
above, Sun Life had pointed this out to prospective applicants in the marketing information. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr B, I do not believe Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
operating his mothers Guaranteed Over 50s policy. I therefore reject this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman