DRN-1564810
The complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of M, a limited company, that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined a 
chargeback claim and failed to properly log another chargeback claim.
What happened
Mr A is the director of M. In December 2018 and January 2019 he made two payments of 
four-figure sums to a glazing company, using a debit card on Ms business account. (On Ms 
bank statements they look like payments to two different companies, but only because one 
of them is in the companys trading name.) He was not satisfied with the installation work, 
and in May 2019 he obtained a surveyors report setting out various deficiencies in the work. 
Meanwhile, in February and March, he was negotiating with the glazing company (which 
from now on I will call the merchant) to get a refund, and in early March he raised a 
chargeback claim with Ms bank, Barclays.
Barclays logged separate chargeback claims for each payment, although both payments 
were made in relation to the same work. It is not in dispute that Barclays logged one of these 
claims under the wrong chargeback reason, resulting in that claim being closed, and by the 
time Barclays realised its mistake and tried to start again, it was too late, the time limit 
having expired. Barclays argues that this did not affect the overall result, however, because 
it says that neither claim would have succeeded. The other claim was raised under the 
correct chargeback reason  Not as Described or Defective Merchandise/Services  and it 
was rejected on its merits. Mr A complained about that outcome, and Barclays told him that 
the reason it had not pursued the claim to arbitration was because the merchant had already 
offered him a full refund, and he had declined it. (He does not accept that argument, but I will 
address that in the next section.) In a later letter, in October, Barclays said it was because 
the merchant had reduced its invoice by the cost of the installation and had only billed him 
for the windows supplied, Mr A having been satisfied with those.
Barclays did however uphold Mr As complaint in part, and offered him £400 compensation 
for poor customer service. Mr A did not accept that offer, since it only covered the cost of 
getting the surveyors report and so was not enough to make up for the banks mistakes. He 
also did not accept the reasons given for refusing his claims. So he brought this complaint to 
our Service, on behalf of his company.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that the chargebacks had never had 
any prospect of being upheld, because the merchant had offered different refund options  
including a full refund (and collection of the windows) or a refund of the installation cost only 
(leaving Mr A with the windows, to be reinstalled by someone else)  and Mr A had rejected 
them. He thought £400 was fair compensation for what Barclays had done wrong.
Mr A did not agree. He said that he had accepted the merchants offer of a full refund, and 
he provided the emails to prove it. But the merchant had then reneged on its offer, and he 
said Barclays had failed to take this into account. He said he had been prejudiced in 
pursuing his chargeback claim because Barclays had failed to notify him that the merchant 
had defended the claim. He had therefore been denied the opportunity to reply. Since 
Barclays had described the merchants evidence as compelling, when Mr A was confident 
that he could have demonstrated that it was not, this had adversely affected the outcome of 
his claim. He asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the surveyors report, and its clear that the installation was performed poorly, so 
I am sympathetic to Mr As situation. But when Mr A submitted his original evidence to 
Barclays in April, this did not include the surveyors report, because the report did not yet 
exist. The report was written in May, and unfortunately Barclays did not receive it until July. 
So in late June, the chargeback process was closed, due to lack of evidence to prove that 
the installation work had not been carried out properly. I dont think it was unreasonable of 
Barclays to do that. Barclays was not obliged to raise a chargeback dispute with Visa without 
enough supporting evidence.
On 1 July, Barclays offered to re-open the chargeback process and to consider the report if 
Mr A provided it. But by then it was already too late. Under Visas chargeback rules, a 
chargeback dispute must be raised within 120 days of the date when the cardholder 
received the goods or services, which could not have happened later than mid-February. But 
120 days before 1 July is 3 March.
Even if the report had been made available to Barclays in time, then I think the chargeback 
would still not have been successful. By then, the merchant had offered Mr A a full refund, 
so a chargeback would not have been upheld, since it would never have been possible for 
Mr As company to receive a larger refund than the merchant had already offered him.
Mr A argues that this is irrelevant, because the merchant rescinded its offer. But the 
merchant did not do that until after Mr A raised a chargeback dispute with Barclays. At the 
time when Mr A first asked Barclays to get involved, that offer was still open for acceptance. 
Indeed, Mr A actually accepted that offer on the same day as he raised the chargeback 
claim, 5 March. So I think the merchant only withdrew its offer because the matter was 
escalated to a chargeback claim. In those circumstances, I dont believe that Visa would 
have upheld a chargeback claim, and so for that reason I dont think Barclays erred by 
refusing to take the matter further.
I think that £400 is fair compensation for the various customer service issues it is meant to 
compensate  including logging the other chargeback claim under the incorrect chargeback 
reason. That did not affect the outcome, as it would still have failed, for the same reasons as 
the other claim failed.
I could stop here, since its not strictly necessary for me to address the outstanding point, but 
in the interests of completeness I will address it briefly. Mr A argues that the real reason he 
lost his chargeback dispute is because Barclays failed to tell him that the merchant was 
defending the claim. But Ive seen evidence that Barclays disabused him of that notion on 28 
March. So he had plenty of time before the chargeback was finally closed at the end of June.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf of 
M, to accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman