DRN-2089028
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with a contents claim settlement from esure Insurance Limited 
after suffering a break in under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B made a claim following a break in. There was some debate right from the start about 
whether or not cover applied. Mrs B updated esure after the break in had been reported to 
the police and gave it the crime reference number. Eventually the claim was settled minus 
approximately £1,000 in cash and a set of car keys. esure declined to pay for the stolen cash 
and car keys.
In relation to the stolen cash esure said the forcible and violent entry clause applied. As 
there was no sign of such damage to the house the policy wouldnt pay out. Regarding the 
car keys esure said in line with the policy it wouldnt pay out for car parts and accessories. 
Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the claim. He said esure had acted reasonably and in line with the 
policy wording when it declined to pay for the stolen cash. But he said that he didnt think the 
car keys fell within the definition of words used in the policy so esure should pay for these to 
be replaced. As esure didnt accept this and agreement couldnt be reached the complaint 
was passed on for a decision from an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
money
The policy wording states:
We will not pay for theft of Money - unless someone has broken into or out of Your House 
by using force and violence.
I accept that Mr and Mrs B feel there is ambiguity in the wording. But I think this wording is 
clear. esures expert said in relation to the door used by the burglar to enter the property 
There is no evidence of forced entry at all. So, I think its clear from the evidence available 
that there was no sign of any force or violence being used to enter or exit Mr and Mrs Bs 
home.
Mr and Mrs B said a neighbours hedge was damaged and the burglar had to climb a fence. 
But I dont think that changes esure being clear in the policy wording. So, I think esure acted 
reasonably in applying the exclusion and not paying this part of the claim.
car keys
The policy definition refers to items that arent considered household goods. Items that are 
excluded from cover include:
Motor Vehicles, caravans, trailers, boats, canoes, windsurf boards, sailboards, personal 
watercraft, hovercraft, aircraft, gliders and any parts and accessories which are designed to 
be used with any of these.
esure said the car keys fall into the exclusion definition as a part or accessory.
The car keys were stolen from Mr and Mrs Bs home address. So, Im not sure Mr and Mrs B 
would be able to just ask esure to pay for a new set of car keys. I would think that could 
jeopardise their motor insurance policy cover as I think their car would still be at risk if just a 
replacement set of keys were paid for by esure.
Although I think its understandable that Mr and Mrs B claimed for the car keys under the 
home insurance policy following the break in. I wouldve thought the car would need to be 
taken to a garage for checks in relation to the locks to be changed, reprogramming or 
possibly completely different keys provided for the car to avoid any further theft risks to the 
car. So, I think the keys and associated costs would be more appropriately discussed with 
and claimed for under a motor insurance policy. I think the esure wording is written to 
highlight that claims for items linked to cars cant be claimed for under the household policy. 
So, I think esure acted reasonably when it declined to pay the claim for the stolen car keys.
Responses to my provisional decision
esure didnt respond to the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs B did respond. They said they still feel that esure is liable and responsible to pay 
for the car key and associated costs as it was stolen from their home. Mr and Mrs B 
confirmed they didnt need to get the locks replaced they just got the key replaced and had 
the spare key reprogrammed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand what Mr and Mrs B have said and how they have acted to safeguard their 
property. But this doesnt change my provisional decision or the points I made. I still think 
Mr and Mrs B should claim under their motor policy. I also think they need to consider 
contact with their motor insurer to ensure all actions theyve taken will safeguard them from 
any future claim problems with the car insurance policy due to the stolen keys.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman