DRN-3370333
The complaint
Mr H has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited cancelled appointments hed made 
to have his boiler repaired after hed made arrangements to make sure he could be 
available.
What happened
Mr H had a Homecare policy with British Gas, which provided him with cover for repairs to 
his boiler, as well as an annual service.  At the end of October 2021, he made an 
appointment for British Gas to visit.  He was given an appointment for early December, 
which he was told was the first available date.
Mr H took time off work to be available for the appointment slot of between 12pm and 6pm.  
But he says British Gas called him at around 5pm to say their engineer wouldnt be coming.  
The appointment was rearranged for twelve days later, between 8am and 1pm.  Mr H 
arranged time off work again.  By 1pm, no engineer had arrived so he called British Gas, 
who told him the engineer would be there between 1pm and 6pm.  Mr H had to go to work in 
the afternoon so asked a neighbour to let the engineer in.  But the engineer didnt arrive 
again.
Mr H was called by the engineer, who said hed come late afternoon on the following day.  
He attended around 6.30pm, cleaned some parts and did the annual maintenance 
inspection.  Mr H was charged £60 for this.
Mr H complained to British Gas about what had happened and asked them to refund the £60 
hed paid.  British Gas rejected his complaint.  So Mr H brought it to our service.  
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded British Gas needed to do more to 
resolve it.  He noted the terms and conditions of the Homecare policy do allow for British 
Gas to reschedule visits.  But he thought it was unfair they did so three times  resulting in 
Mr H taking time off work unnecessarily.
In respect of putting matters right, the investigator noted a repair had been done to the boiler 
 so it was fair to charge Mr H the £60 excess for doing that.  But he said Mr H should be 
compensated £100 for the inconvenience hed been caused by repeatedly cancelling the 
appointments.
British Gas responded to the investigators view by offering £60 compensation.  They 
declined to increase it to £100.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its not disputed that Mr Hs appointments were rescheduled  or that Mr H was 
inconvenienced by this.  Mr H thinks he should be compensated for this.  British Gas now 
agree with that.  But they say £100 compensation is too high and have referred to the fact 
the terms of the Homecare policy allow them to reschedule appointments if necessary.  
theyve said that can be because particular customers are vulnerable  or because an 
engineers previous appointments take longer than expected to complete.
The term British Gas relies on says:
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
Mr H has told us he waited from October until the start of December for his first appointment.  
But it was the first one available  so I cant say British Gas did anything wrong there.
But I dont think British Gas did what their terms said they would for the three appointments 
scheduled in December.  On the first day, he was called in the final hour of the six hour 
timeslot he was given  after hed already made arrangements to be available.   
On the second occasion, he had to call British Gas to find out what was going on, rather than 
them notifying him in line with their terms.  And no engineer came during the third time slot 
when, again, Mr H had to call British Gas for an explanation.  I dont think that was fair. 
Putting things right
Ive thought carefully about what British Gas should do to resolve Mr Hs complaint.  I agree 
with our investigator he received the service covered by the policy (albeit after delays) so its 
fair he should pay the £60 excess.
But I also agree Mr H should receive compensation for the stress and inconvenience he 
suffered as a result of having his appointments changed at the last minute and on, two 
occasions out of the three, having to contact British Gas to find out why the appointments 
hadnt been fulfilled.  I think £100 is a reasonable amount of compensation for British Gas to 
pay for that  so thats what Im deciding they should pay Mr H. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about British Gas Insurance 
Limited and directing them to pay him £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman