DRN-4077995
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a transaction she didnt make.
What happened
Mrs S explained she received calls from people pretending to be from Monzo, her 
other bank as well as Amazon. Ultimately, it seems she was told that someone had 
hacked her accounts and was using her card details  she was also told she needed 
to move money to her Monzo account.
As a result of these calls, she noticed her card had been used to make a £450 
payment using Apple Pay in a shop in London.
She raised this with Monzo, who declined to refund the transaction. It said she 
authorised the payment when she went through the steps on her app to set up Apple 
Pay and that, in any event, she failed with gross negligence to keep her details safe.
On 29 March 2023, I issued my provisional findings explaining why I intended to 
uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Monzo accepted my findings and Mrs S didnt reply by the 
deadline given. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mrs S hasnt added anything further and Monzo accepted what I said, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. For completeness, Ive explained my reasons 
again below: 
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) is that 
Mrs S is liable for authorised payments and Monzo is liable for unauthorised 
payments.
To consider this payment authorised, the PSRs explain that Mrs S must have given 
her consent to the execution of the payment transaction  and that consent must be 
in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between her and Monzo.
Monzo has referenced its terms and conditions that explain how she consents to 
making a payment: Either your PIN, or A security code, or Proving it's you with 
fingerprint or facial recognition. It says Mrs S entered her PIN to consent to Apple 
Pay being set up on someone elses device and, therefore, to the payments being 
made from it. 
Firstly, I acknowledge Mrs S has denied she did this. When things arent clear, I must 
decide what happened based on the balance of probabilities  in other words, whats 
more likely than not to have happened. Here, theres no other plausible or persuasive 
explanation for how someone couldve finished setting up Apple Pay without Mrs Ss 
involvement in her app. Thats not to say that she understood what her actions 
meant. Given our experience with dealing with similar scams, I find it more likely that 
she was tricked into taking these final steps.
Even with this conclusion that Mrs S must have been involved, Im not persuaded the 
disputed transaction was authorised. Thats because Im not convinced the steps to 
set up Apple Pay are the same as the steps to consent to the execution of a 
payment, which is what the PSRs require. After all, its not possible to make a 
payment like this simply by having Apple Pay  the PIN or biometrics must have 
been used again on the device to approve the payment with the merchant.
Monzo has accepted this wasnt Mrs S  the payment data shows it happened on a 
different device in a different location. So it follows I dont consider she went through 
the form or the procedure to consent to this payment. It is, therefore, unauthorised. 
Monzo submit its still not liable for an unauthorised transaction under the PSRs 
because it thinks Mrs S failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the 
account and keep her personalised security details safe.
Its not clear how fraudsters got Mrs Ss card details, but theres nothing to suggest 
she shared them during one of these calls. So I think its more likely they were 
compromised beforehand  for example, through a data leak, phishing link or 
malware. 
That means the key issue here is Mrs Ss actions in using her app to finish setting up 
Apple Pay. This wouldve involved her pressing Add card on a screen which said 
Finish adding your card to Apple Pay, followed by her PIN on a separate screen.
Having considered this carefully, I dont think Monzo has shown her actions meant 
she failed with gross negligence. Ive considered:
oIt seems Mrs S received several calls from people posing as various trusted 
organisations, including Monzo. I dont think Monzos investigation got to the 
bottom of what happened during these calls  and given the time thats 
passed, I think itll be difficult for her to remember the details now. But 
ultimately, it seems she was led to believe that her details had been 
compromised and her accounts hacked.
oAnd having looked at Mrs Ss payment records, it seems like someone had 
attempted to use Mrs Ss card shortly before Apple Pay was set up. So I can 
see how she wouldve come to trust the caller that something was wrong.
oI accept Mrs S couldve done more to check this genuine. But the test Im 
considering isnt whether she did everything possible to verify the caller. 
Rather, its whether her actions in the circumstances meant she acted with 
very significant careless compared to a reasonable person.
oOverall, I dont consider that most people go to lengths to verify incoming 
calls. Nor do they routinely receive calls of this nature to understand how to 
effectively challenge them. I can, therefore, understand how Mrs S trusted the 
caller, particularly when she was convinced something was wrong.
oIts not clear exactly how they convinced Mrs S to go through the steps. But, 
given our experience of scams like this, and that we know the context of the calls was that her accounts had been hacked, I think its likely she thought 
she was protecting her money.
oIve reflected on how quickly it wouldve been possible to go through these 
steps, particularly if youd been primed by the caller to expect to use your 
app. And how theres nothing to clearly warn Mrs S that she was in fact 
setting up Apple Pay on someone elses device, who could use it make 
payments. So I can see how Mrs S might not have appreciated what she was 
doing and how she instead thought she was keeping her money safe.
oSo, in the context of a call where she was worried about her money and 
trusted the caller, I dont think Monzo has shown that her actions meant she 
seriously disregarded an obvious risk, or fell so far below what a reasonable 
person wouldve done, to say that she failed with gross negligence. I think lots 
of people wouldve acted as Mrs S did  indeed, this is a relatively common 
scam which people have fallen victim to.
In saying this, Ive noted Monzos point that she also moved money from another 
account to this Monzo account. But I dont think this affects my consideration of 
whether she failed with gross negligence to keep her personalised security details 
safe or comply with the terms and conditions of his account. Thats because it 
happened after Apple Pay was set up  and its not clear how this transfer meant she 
compromised her personalised security details nor has Monzo explained how this 
breached its terms and conditions.
Taking this all into account, I dont think Monzo has shown Mrs S failed with gross 
negligence. So I conclude she isnt liable for the transaction and Monzo needs to put 
things right  by refunding her losses from this unauthorised transaction alongside 
interest to compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
Monzo ought to have refunded this much sooner. Its failure to do so led Mrs S to 
experience significant distress about how she would make ends meet for her and her 
young family. So in the circumstances, and bearing in mind the amount in dispute, I 
also award £150 to reflect her non-financial losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and order Monzo Bank Ltd to: 
Pay Mrs S the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
refunded  I understand this to be £450. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £150 for Mrs Ss distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman