DRN-2013776
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that a credit card interest free offer he got with Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC ended well before it should have.
What happened
Mr A took out a credit card on 14 September 2017 with Tesco. The card offered 15 
months 0% interest for balance transfers done in the first three months. He said the way 
this is worded gives the impression that a balance transfer can be done any time within 
the first 90 days. Then the 15 month interest free period starts from when this transfer is 
done.
Mr A made two balance transfers within the first 90 days. One was relatively quickly after 
he opened the card, on 27 September. The other was almost at the end of the three 
month qualifying period, on 7 December. So Mr A expected to get 15 months interest free 
on each of those transfers, starting from when each transfer was made. But hes now 
found that the 15 months starts from when he took out the card.
Tesco felt Mr As mistake might be understandable, but it still thought hed made a 
mistake. It listened to a call Mr A had when he first took out the card, and it thought the 
details of the offer had been properly explained to Mr A. It had said it was going to start 
charging Mr A interest on the statement issued two months before the offer ended. And it 
wrote to him about three weeks before the offer ended. So it said it wouldnt do anything
Mr A said that hed listened to this call recording too, and he thought it proved his point. 
He said at first all he wanted was for Tesco to refund £10.63 in interest that was wrongly 
charged. But then Tesco wasted his time trying to argue that it hadnt done anything 
wrong, when he was sure it had. So he wanted a significant payment to compensate for all 
of the inconvenience, stress and wasted time Tesco caused him.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Shed reviewed the call notes, 
and she thought Tesco gave Mr A correct information about when his interest free period 
would end. As she didnt think Tesco had made a mistake, she wouldnt ask it to do any 
more.
Mr A didnt agree. He understood from the call that the person advising him also thought he
would get 15 months interest free from the date of transfer. Otherwise, Mr A said that person
couldve given him the exact date his offer would end. Mr A said that the information might
not have been, strictly speaking, inaccurate, but it was certainly misleading.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. As she and Mr A didnt agree, the case was passed
to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Tesco said that its offer had been advertised to Mr A like this 0% interest on balance
transfers for the first 15 months (for transfers made within 90 days of account 
opening). I can hear that this is how the offer is described to Mr A on the phone.
Tesco says that means that 15 months interest free runs from the date the card is 
open. Unfortunately, I think that is far from clear from this statement.
Tesco is responsible for making sure its communications with customers are clear. I 
dont think its done that here.
Tesco has sent us a call recording. It argues that the part of this call where Mr A was 
told his interest free offer would expire around the end of 2018 or January 2019, 
means that the call handler had made clear that the 15 months of the offer would run 
from the start of the card, not from the date of transfer. I dont think that was clear.
Mr A said hed diarised to pay off the card 15 months after the transfers. And he was 
then charged interest on his card when he wasnt expecting to be charged. But I do 
also have to bear in mind that Tesco did a considerable amount to draw to Mr As 
attention that its offer was ending. It included this on his statements a couple of 
months before he was charged interest, and then wrote to him a few weeks before he 
was charged interest. So Mr A was warned that the interest free period was coming 
to an end earlier than he expected.
But I still think that, as Tesco itself appears to acknowledge, Mr As mistake was an
understandable one. And Tesco is responsible for making sure that its 
communications about the offers it makes arent left open to such understandable 
mistakes. I think Tesco failed to make this sufficiently clear. For that reason, I think 
Tesco should pay Mr A £100 in compensation to make up for the stress this caused.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr A didnt reply. Tesco wrote to make some further points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco strongly disagreed. It didnt think it was fair to uphold a complaint based on a 
customers incorrect perception, when we considered the information available to the 
customer at the start of the credit agreement, and when the credit agreement was ending. 
Tesco showed us the terms and conditions for the card, which state that there is a 0% 
interest rate for balance transfers for 15 months from account opening (for transfers made 
within 90 day of opening your account). Tesco says this is clear that the interest free period 
runs from account opening, not when the transfer is made. 
I think this statement is clear. I note that its different from the way Tesco has previously told 
us that the interest free period was advertised, and the way it was described to Mr A on the 
phone. This statement links the interest free period specifically with the account opening. 
The earlier information Tesco gave Mr A does not. 
Tesco hasnt sent us the terms and conditions of the account, as they were when it was 
opened, so I cant see if this is what the terms said at the time. I havent asked to see those, 
because even if it was, I would still say that it wasnt unreasonable for Mr A, having asked a 
direct question about how long his interest free period would last, to rely on that answer.Tesco now says Mr As question was unclear, and thats why the call handler didnt set this 
out for him as clearly as the terms do. Tesco didnt think it was reasonable for me to expect 
its call handler to have understood what Mr A was thinking when he asked this question. 
I disagree. I dont think that the information that was given to Mr A over the phone clearly 
supports the interpretation that Tesco is now trying to give it. It says that when the call 
handler told Mr A that he would have a 15 months interest free period, he was referring to 15 
months from the opening of the account. He didnt say that. He said 0% interest on balance 
transfers for the first 15 months, erm, for any transfers done within the first 90 days of your 
account opening. Ive explained I dont think that is clear. 
The call handler and Mr A were both aware of the dates involved here. Mr As account had 
been opened on 15 September, as confirmed on the call. His transfer was going take effect 
around 29 September, again as discussed on the call. So if the call handler had intended to 
confirm that 15 months would run from account opening, then its surprising that he told Mr A 
that his interest free period would expire at the end of December 2018 or start of January 
2019 (15 months from the transfer date) not that his interest free period would end in mid-
December (15 months from the date of account opening). 
This may have been a further misunderstanding. The call handler couldve been trying to 
estimate when the first interest payment would be applied onto Mr As account, but if thats 
the case, then that wasnt clear either.  
I dont think that Tesco was clear. Ive explained I think its responsible for being clear. So I 
still think its fair to uphold this complaint.
Tesco said its customer service agent was only trying to sympathise with Mr A when saying 
that this was an understandable mistake. Tesco now thinks this was a poor choice of words. 
It said other customers arent making this same mistake. But even if Tesco no longer thinks 
this was an understandable mistake, I still do. And I think that the unclear call Mr A had with 
Tesco was a key part of the misunderstanding in this case. So I dont think it would be 
relevant that other customers havent had the same difficulties.
Tesco also said it had done enough to draw to Mr As attention to the end of the promotional 
rate. It said Id found it had done a considerable amount to draw this to Mr As attention, so 
Mr A couldve raised his perceived end dates with it then. But I think Mr A has raised that, 
through this complaint. And Ive taken into account that Tesco did a considerable amount to 
bring the end date of this interest free period to Mr As attention when I considered the 
appropriate amount of compensation in this case. I think that helped to lessen the impact of 
Tescos earlier mistake. 
Ive considered Tescos new arguments, but I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the 
award I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC must pay Mr A £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman