DRN-2543970
The complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy with his loan.
What happened
Mr M took out PPI at the same time as he took out a personal loan in September 1999. 
The loan was for £12,000 and the PPI policy cost him £2830.99. The PPI was added to 
his loan and interest was charged on it.
Neither party can say now where the sale of the PPI took place. The policy gave Mr 
M accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that Mr M was suffering from a range 
of symptoms at the time and likely he wouldnt have been covered for these under the 
policy when he took it out. Nationwide didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said 
that Mr Ms condition(s) had only been diagnosed in 2015 and there was not enough 
evidence to conclude that he would have been reasonably aware in 1999 that he would 
later receive such diagnoses and that these conditions wouldnt have been covered.
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Ms complaint in December 2020. I said I 
was minded not to uphold it, but wanted to give Mr M and Nationwide a chance 
to provide further comment before I issued a final decision.
I heard back from Nationwide. It said it had nothing further to add. Mr M didnt 
respond.
Mr Ms complaint comes back to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is set out on our website and Ive 
followed it here. As Ive not been provided with any extra information, I stand by my 
provisional decision. Im not going to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why here.
Nationwide had to make it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr M had to agree to take it. Mr M 
said he was not told about PPI. But on the loan agreement Ive seen, which Mr M signed, I 
think it was made clear that PPI was optional. It was labelled Optional Credit Insurance and 
the cost was set out separately. If Mr M didnt want PPI, I think he wouldnt have signed the 
agreement, opting to take the optional insurance.
So, I think Mr M was made aware that the PPI was optional, and he chose to take out 
the insurance.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for Mr M. But, it still had to give him clear information about the PPI so he could 
decide whether the cover was right for him and he wanted to buy it. 
Its possible that Nationwide couldve given Mr M clearer information. But I dont 
think Mr M has lost out because of this, because I still think he wouldve bought PPI 
even if he had been given clearer information. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the PPI  that is, he qualified to be covered by the 
insurance. 
There were some limitations and exclusions in the policy that affected the 
cover offered - (such as for those with pre-existing medical conditions or with 
certain kinds of employment contract). 
Mr M said he was suffering from symptoms in 1999, that were connected to 
health conditions he was later diagnosed with. To assist us, Mr M sent in a 
copy of his medical records and details of his current medication. But, these 
only show information from 2015 to 2020. Based on what    Mr Ms said, I 
accept he may have been experiencing symptoms related to his more recent 
diagnoses for many years before they were diagnosed. But, I cant fairly say 
that at the time of sale, some 16 years before, he would have made a different 
decision about purchasing PPI, if these policy exclusions had been brought to 
his attention. I think he wouldve likely still bought the PPI based on his 
particular known circumstances at the time.
I dont think in 1999 Mr M would have expected hed need to be off work for a 
prolonged period because of the symptoms he was experiencing at that time. 
The policy would have covered him for other eligible sickness claims. So, I 
dont think having better information on the relevant exclusions would have 
changed his decision to buy PPI.
Mr M was entitled to two weeks sick pay from his employer, but the PPI would 
have paid out for up to the period of the loan, which was for seven years, for 
accident and sickness claims. It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover. 
Mr M says his family and friends would have helped, and whilst I accept that, that 
help wasnt guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change, so I havent 
placed much reliance on it.
So, overall, I think PPI couldve provided Mr M with useful protection in his circumstances.
The costs were set out clearly on the loan agreement. It set out the price of 
the PPI, the interest that would be charged, the total cost and the monthly 
repayment.
The policy gave a pro-rata refund if the loan was repaid early, so even if 
the early refund terms were not brought to Mr Ms attention, it seems 
unlikely that this would have affected his decision to take out the policy as 
he wouldve got his pro-rated premium back if the loan ended early.
So, I cant see that Mr M has lost out because of anything that Nationwide couldve 
done better.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman