DRN-2222361
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the sale of her travel insurance policy by Rock Insurance 
Services Limited.
What happened
Mrs W took out a single-trip travel insurance policy costing £83. Mrs W then called Rock 
Insurance to disclose some medical conditions. Rock Insurance confirmed shed need to 
pay an additional amount. Unhappy with this, Mrs W cancelled the policy and took out 
cover elsewhere. She complained to Rock Insurance about the sale of the policy and 
wanted the £83 premium refunded.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be partly upheld. She thought Mrs W had 
been advised during the initial sales call that she may need to pay an additional premium 
once she had declared the medical conditions. However, she thought that once the 
medical screening was done, Rock Insurances adviser failed to make it clear to Mrs W 
that the additional amount was to cover the majority of the declared conditions. She 
recommended that Rock Insurance pay Mrs W £50 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 September 2020. My provisional findings were:
The policy explains that the insured will not be covered for any claims arising directly or 
indirectly from a pre-existing medical condition unless it has been declared and accepted 
in writing for cover.
When Mrs W initially agreed to take out the policy, she was advised by Rock Insurances 
agent that she would need to call the health screening line to disclose the medical 
conditions and that there may be an increased premium to pay.
I can see from Mrs Ws submissions to this service that shes under the impression that 
Rock Insurance wanted to charge her an additional amount because of the disclosed 
medical conditions, but she thinks those medical conditions wouldnt be covered in the 
event of a claim. Thats not correct. The additional premium was to cover the disclosed 
medical conditions (with one exception) in the event of a claim.
Ive listened to the medical screening call, to see if this was made clear to Mrs W at the time.
During the screening call, Mrs W declared the relevant medical conditions in response to 
the questions asked. As Mrs W had pending surgery for one of her conditions, the adviser 
explained that this wouldnt be covered, which Mrs W understood. The adviser then 
confirmed the additional price that would need to be paid. Mrs W was surprised that she 
needed to pay extra. The adviser said:
This would be specifically to cover you for these conditions. It is always an 
option though if you choose not to go ahead with this, what it means is that 
anything relating to these conditions would not be covered in the event of a 
claim.
Although Mrs W was clearly disappointed that the insurer was charging an additional 
amount, I think it was clear from the advisers explanation that the additional premium was 
to provide cover for the conditions, and if she chose not to pay that premium, those 
conditions wouldnt be covered.
Mrs W may have misunderstood what the adviser had told her, but this wasnt apparent 
from the conversation. I dont think the adviser had any reason to suspect that Mrs W 
thought shed be paying an extra premium only to have no cover for the disclosed 
conditions in the event of a claim.
As Mrs W didnt want to pay the additional premium during the phone call, the adviser 
confirmed that she could defer paying the premium and that the quote would remain valid 
for 14 days. This was later confirmed in writing.
I therefore dont agree with our investigator that Rock Insurance provided Mrs W with a 
poor service, and so I dont intend to require it to pay compensation.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make.
Mrs W responded to say she didnt want to pay an extra amount for medical conditions 
not being covered in the event of a claim. Shes clarified that shes not referring to the 
declared medical conditions, and is instead referring to linked medical conditions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W had referred me to the medical screening documents she received from Rock 
Insurance after the screening had taken place. She thinks this shows that thered be no 
cover for linked medical conditions, even if the additional premium was paid. 
Ive looked at these documents, and I think Mrs W has misunderstood what theyre saying. 
For example, one of the documents relates to a medical screening that took place for 
hypertension. The document explains that further to the declaration of this medical condition, 
Rock Insurance would accept cover for the condition for an additional premium of £22.22. 
The document then said You have decided to defer the decision to take out this additional 
cover at this stageIf you travel without taking out this cover then you will not be covered for 
any claims arising directly or indirectly from any of your pre-existing medical conditions.
On a later page, the document lists linked medical conditions and said that these were 
excluded for cover under the policy.
In other words, if Mrs W had paid the additional premium there would have been cover for 
any claims relating to hypertension (and any linked conditions). However, if they had decided 
to travel without paying the additional premium, its only then that thered be no cover arising 
directly or indirectly from hypertension (which includes the linked medical conditions). 
I remain satisfied that it was made clear to Mrs W during the screening call that the 
additional premium was to cover the declared condition/s.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman