DRN-4152161
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs D complain about the information Topaz Finance Limited, trading as Heliodor 
Mortgages, has recorded on their credit files about an unsecured loan which is linked to their 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr J and Mrs D took out a Together mortgage in 2007. This consisted of a secured loan 
and a smaller, linked, unsecured loan. In November 2019, the mortgage and loan were sold 
to Heliodor, which is the respondent to this complaint. 
In July 2022, Mr J repaid the unsecured loan in full. He also made a complaint. He said that 
four missed payments had wrongly been recorded on his credit file, between September 
2019 and January 2020. He said he had been in payment arrangements during this period 
and hadnt missed any of the agreed payments. 
Heliodor said it hadnt recorded missed payments on Mr Js credit file. It had, however, failed 
to record that a payment arrangement was in place in September, October and December 
2019. It apologised, said it would amend the credit file, and offered £50 by way of 
compensation. It also said no payment arrangement was in place in January 2020, so it 
wouldnt be amending the credit file information it had reported for that month.
Mr J referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, and Mrs D joined the 
complaint. Mr J said his credit file still wasnt right and showed missed payments. He also 
said this was having a significant financial impact on him, leaving him unable to obtain credit 
at reasonable rates of interest or get a mortgage, all of which also caused considerable 
stress and anxiety. 
Our Investigator found that Heliodor had accepted it hadnt correctly recorded Mr Js 
arrangement to pay on his and Mrs Ds credit files, but that it had since put that right. He also 
concluded that Heliodors offer of £50 compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr J didnt accept that and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said it had taken longer 
than it should have done for his credit file to be amended, and he had made the minimum 
payment required in January 2020, so he hadnt missed that months payment. He also felt 
the stress and severe mental impact of this matter had been overlooked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise this isnt the outcome Mr J and Mrs D were hoping for, Ive 
come to the same conclusions as the Investigator did, for much the same reasons. I think 
Heliodor has done enough to put things right, and it has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation.
Theres no dispute that Heliodor made mistakes with its credit file reporting. It didnt correctly 
record all the payment arrangements Mr J had come to with it and which he kept to.  
While Mr J did make a payment to the loan in January 2020, this wasnt under a payment 
arrangement and the loan was still in significant arrears  so I think Heliodor was right to 
report no arrangement as having been in place for that month. Its records say it reported Mr 
Js payment as having been received, not missed, and I think that was also correct.
Heliodors credit file records now reflect that an arrangement to pay was in place for the 
whole period between January 2019 and July 2022, apart from for January 2020. They also 
show that the loan was settled in full in July 2022. It has recorded that the loan was in 
arrears throughout this period, but I find nothing to indicate that this is incorrect.
I therefore find that Heliodor has taken reasonable steps to correct the credit file information 
it has recorded for this loan. 
Mr J has said that the wrong information on his credit file had a significant impact on him and 
he should fairly receive compensation to reflect that. However, the transaction history Ive 
seen for the loan shows that it had been in arrears for several years before it was repaid in 
2022. The arrears had been reducing (from around £5,000 in September 2018 to around 
£4,000 by February 2020) but, against this background, I think it would be difficult to 
conclude that failing to report payment arrangements for some months is likely to have had 
much, if any, impact on whether or not Mr J could secure finance or on what terms. So I 
dont find that I can fairly make any award for financial loss. 
I think that Mr J and Mrs D have been put to some inconvenience because of Heliodors 
mistakes. In all the circumstances, however, I consider that £50 is a fair and reasonable 
award, so I dont require Heliodor to pay any more than that.
My final decision
My final decision is that Topaz Finance Limited, trading as Heliodor Mortgages, has made a 
fair offer. It should pay Mr J and Mrs D £50 compensation if it hasnt already done so and if 
they accept this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman