DRN-2254181
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) offered him a higher interest rate than he 
was expecting on a loan
.
What happened
Mr R made an online application for a loan with HSBC in June 2020. The loan was for 
£30,000. He wanted to take advantage of the 3.3% APR that was advertised on its website, 
and to consolidate another loan he already held with HSBC at a rate of 6.7%.APR.
Mr Rs application was accepted, but HSBC offered him a rate of 8.9% APR. Mr R wasnt 
happy with this. He wanted the bank to explain its decision, and to offer him the advertised 
rate of 3.3%
HSBC didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said the application was carried out in line with its 
lending process and a bank error hadnt been made. Because its lending criteria was 
commercially sensitive, it could only provide limited information about their decision.
Mr R remained unhappy and complained to our service.
Our investigator explained that the quoted rate was the representative APR, and not all 
customers would get this. There was a range of rates that could be offered to customers, 
with the highest rate being 21% APR. He thought this explained that the rate offered on 
application was based on individual circumstances, and that HSBC was entitled to set its 
own processes and decide which rate to offer.
He didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R was unhappy with this, and so the case has come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On HSBCs website  where Mr R saw the advert - it explains the following in relation to the 
representative APR.:
The rate is subject to change and the representative APR may not be the rate you'll receive. 
We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances. 
The maximum APR you could be offered is 21.9%.
This explains that the representative rate it offers is 3.3%, based on individual 
circumstances. But if an application is accepted the APR could be anything up to 21.9%. I 
think this statement gives a clear indication that the representative rate is not guaranteed. 
I have looked at HSBCs loan application page which also quotes the 3.3% representative 
APR, and states that the APR offered after a credit check may be higher, and that the loan 
amount will also affect the rate offered. 
From what I can see, Mr R understands that the quoted rate is not guaranteed but has 
correctly observed that the representative rate has to be the rate that the bank expects to 
offer to at least 51% of customers responding to the advertisement. He says he has perfect, 
or near perfect credit, and so does not understand how he did not fall within the 51% who 
would be offered the rate of 3.3%.
I can understand why Mr R would believe that his credit standing means that he should get 
the representative rate, but HSBC explained that it offers personal loan rates based on 
customers' individual financial circumstances. It looks at a range of information covering 
account performance with it and other lenders, and the total financial picture, using data that 
all financial institutions share with each other. The rate given depends on a number of 
factors, and lenders have their own interpretations of the information they consider. 
It explained that it uses credit scoring to decide whether to lend, but also to decide whether 
one customer is eligible for a lower interest rale than another customer. It doesnt mean that 
any customer who is offered a loan at a higher interest rate is a bad payer. It simply means 
that based on the information available to it, it is not able to agree the borrowing at the 
lowest advertised rate. This means that it cant always guarantee that a customer with an 
excellent credit rating will get the lowest rate. Im satisfied thats a reasonable explanation of 
why Mr R didnt get the rate he was expecting here.
Like all lenders, HSBC is entitled to set its own lending criteria. I cant see any evidence that 
it hasnt followed its policy rules or has applied them unfairly here, so I will not be asking it to 
change its decision about the rate offered to Mr R.
I also think that it has given a reasonable explanation of its decision making process. There 
are limits to what it can tell Mr R - as it cannot be reasonably expected to disclose 
commercially sensitive information and it could end up doing that here. So because of this, I 
will not be asking HSBC to provide any further explanation about how it decided on the rate 
to offer Mr R.  
 
I understand that Mr R will be disappointed with this but hope that he can understand my 
reasoning.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman