DRN-3307677
The complaint
Mr V complains about the amount Advantage Finance Ltd is seeking to settle a hire 
purchase agreement. Ill refer to Advantage Finance Ltd as AFL.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr V entered into a hire purchase agreement with AFL. In 2021 Mr V 
had an accident and the car was written off. As a result, he asked AFL to provide a 
settlement figure  that is, he asked how much he needed to pay to end the hire purchase 
agreement. AFL provided a figure of a little over £13,000 (having initially provided a figure 
which was a few pence too but which it corrected). 
Mr V said that the revised figure was too high, that AFL had tried to put him on another 
expensive agreement and that it had wrongly registered adverse credit information. 
AFL said that it had calculated the amount due in line with the relevant legislation. To the 
extent that any insurance proceeds were insufficient to cover the sums due or were not paid 
to AFL, Mr V would be liable for the balance. 
Mr V was not happy with AFLs response and referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint but did not recommend it be upheld. He agreed with 
what AFL said about the settlement figure. He did not think there was any evidence to 
support what Mr V had said about a new agreement, and he thought that the credit 
information which Mr V had referred to was accurate. 
Mr V did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As far as the settlement figure is concerned, I accept that AFL has calculated it in line with 
The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. They set out a formula to be 
used and which takes into account, amongst other things, the amount of credit, the number 
of payments in total and the number of payments which have been made. The formula is 
complex, but AFL has provided it to Mr V. He has not identified any errors in AFLs 
calculations. I would add that the Regulations are intended to protect the position of 
borrowers such as Mr V, so I cannot properly conclude that it is unfair to apply them.
I note what Mr V says about a new agreement. But, even if what he says is correct, he did 
not take up any new agreement and so has suffered no loss.
As far as credit reporting is concerned, I note that Mr V had a payment holiday from May 
until October 2020. The investigator noted that no worsening information should have been 
reported during that time, but that you were three months in arrears before the payment 
break was agreed. I agree therefore that the information was correctly reported by AFL.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Advantage Finance Ltd to take 
any further steps to resolve Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman