DRN-4104727
The complaint
Dr R complains that he was mis-sold a Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(FSAVC) plan in 1997 by an appointed representative of TenetConnect Limited (TCL) when 
he shouldve been advised to purchase added years from his NHS Pension Scheme.
In this complaint Dr R is represented by a claims management company, but for clarity Ill 
refer to all actions and correspondence as being made by Dr R himself.
What happened
Dr R joined the NHS Pension Scheme when he took up employment in 1996. He was 29 
years and 6 months old at the time.
In January 1997 Dr R received pension planning advice from TCL. He was advised to make 
a monthly gross contribution of £75 into an FSAVC, and these commenced on 
1 February 1997 (plan number ending 0412). At the time of the advice Dr R was receiving an 
annual salary of £21,000 and making a contribution of 6% of his salary into the NHS Pension 
Scheme.
On 16 February 1998 Dr R signed an application form to increase his gross monthly FSAVC 
contributions to £103.90 (supplementary plan number ending 9589). At this time his annual 
salary was £27,000.
On 31 July 2007 Dr R purchased an additional four years of pensionable service from his 
employer. This increased his pension contribution by 4.6% of his pensionable salary, 
payable until he reached 60 years old.
On 26 January 2021 Dr R, via his representative, complained to TCL that his FSAVC plans 
(0412 and 9589) were mis-sold, as the full risks, implications and alternatives were not 
explained to him, and he hadnt been provided with a comparison of the relevant in-house 
options available through his employment.
In its final response to his complaint, TCL upheld Dr Rs complaint about plan 0412. It 
offered a refund of the additional charges Dr R had made over what he wouldve had to 
make under the in-house AVC scheme. However, TCL said it had seen no evidence that it 
had been responsible for the advice to take out the top-up plan 9589, and as such had not 
considered this aspect of the complaint.
Unhappy with this response Dr R complained to our service on 4 November 2021. He said 
that TCL comparing the charges was unfair, and that the correct advice at the time would 
have been for him to have bought added years. So the loss calculation should be completed 
on an added years basis.
On 17 March 2022 Dr Rs FSAVC became paid up as he no longer wished to contribute to it.
On 31 March 2022 Dr R asked our service to also consider the circumstances of the 
purchase of plan 9589 as TCL had denied responsibility for advising on this.
Having considered all the circumstances, our Investigator thought Dr Rs complaint should 
be upheld, and that TCL should undertake a loss calculation on the basis that Dr R ought to 
have been advised to purchase added years to the same value as his contributions to the 
FSAVC plan. And on balance, our Investigator thought it likely that TCL had been 
responsible for the advice in 1998 for plan 9589, so the loss calculation should take into 
account both plans.
TCL responded by saying it thought Dr Rs complaint should be time-barred under the 
Regulators rules. It thought this because as Dr R had bought added years in 2007, so he 
ought to have been aware at this point that there may be cause for concern about the 
original advice. And as he hadnt complained within three years of 2007, hed made his 
complaint too late. 
But our Investigator didnt agree. He thought, in summary, that the 2007 mailing received by 
Dr R from the NHS, which prompted him to purchase the four added years, hadnt included 
any comparison with the benefits or cost over an FSAVC. So, our Investigator wasnt 
satisfied that awareness of an added years arrangement in 2007 meant that Dr R ought to 
have had a wider awareness that this arrangement was more suitable for him than the 
FSAVC. And this was supported by the fact that Dr R had continued contributing to the 
FSAVC alongside his additional occupational pension contributions.
But TCL didnt agree and asked for our Services jurisdiction over the complaint to be 
considered by an Ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me.
I reviewed all of the available evidence and thought that the complaint was made in time so 
was one our Service was able to consider.  I set out in an email my initial thoughts as to why 
the complaint had been made in time, and informed TCL that on this basis I would proceed 
to consider the merits of Dr Rs complaints. I invited it to submit any further information or 
arguments. But TCL didnt agree with my position regarding our jurisdiction. It maintained 
that it thought that the literature (which is no longer available) which wouldve accompanied 
the sale of the added years to Dr R in 2007 probably would have included information about 
the alternatives available. So this wouldve given Dr R reason to consider his FSAVC as 
potentially a wrong option. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can we consider this complaint?
The rules under which the Financial Ombudsman Service operates are set out in the
DISP section of the FCA Handbook. DISP 2.8R deals with whether a complaint has been
made in time.
DISP 2.8.2 R states, as far as is relevant here:
The ombudsman service cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) Six years after the event complained of; or, (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP
2.8.2 R  was as a result of exceptional circumstances; or

(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint
In this case, the initial advice was given in 1997. The complaint was referred to our service in 
2021, which is more than six years after the advice. So, the issue I have to decide is whether 
Dr R ought reasonably to have known he had cause to complain more than three years 
before he did. And for clarity, for the purposes of the three-year part of the rule, ought 
reasonably to have known doesnt mean Dr R needed to know that the FSAVC was 
unsuitable, be that because the alternative in-house options were cheaper or, for another 
reason, more suitable; he just needed to have an idea that something might be wrong.
 
TCL have argued that because Dr R was aware of the option of buying added years in 2007, 
he ought reasonably to have been aware there may have been a problem with the original 
advice to purchase an FSAVC. So, TCL argued that he had three years from 2007 to make 
his complaint. 
Whilst I can see Dr R had purchased four added years in 2007, I dont agree this was 
evidence which showed he was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for 
complaint about the 1997 advice. I do not think that simply knowing that an alternative option 
existed meant that this ought to have led someone to question whether this was a better 
option than that advised over ten years previously by a qualified professional, or ought to at 
least have been considered. And whilst I cannot know for certain what extra information, 
over and above that which Ive already seen, was included within the NHS mailing, I think it 
most likely this was just generic information points about the added years that could be 
purchased. And this information would not have likely referred to Dr Rs specific 
circumstances. I also think that had Dr R had any doubts about the FSAVC plan in 2007 and 
had compared this to the added years, he most likely wouldve ceased his contributions at 
that point, and bought additional years to the value of his FSAVC contributions. But he didnt, 
which suggests he thought everything was as it should be.
Im satisfied, for the reasons set out above, that Dr R most likely only became aware he may 
have cause to complain about the advice he was given to purchase an FSAVC in 1997, 
when he was advised this in 2021. And Ive not seen anything which leads me to believe that 
he ought reasonably to have been aware he may have cause to complain before this time. 
So this complaint is within the jurisdiction of this service and is one that I have a lawful basis 
to consider the merits of.
Was the FSAVC mis-sold?
TCL have not been able to provide any documentation from the advice or sales process in 
1997. The advice was undertaken by an appointed representative of TCL, and although it is 
unfortunate in this case, given the passage of time it is not unusual for the documentation to 
no longer exist. Some of the plans documentation has been obtained from the FSAVC 
provider. Where there is a lack of evidence, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probability, or what I thought was most likely to have happened at the time given the 
evidence I do have.
TCL disputes that it was responsible for the advice process which led to Dr R increasing his 
contributions to £103.90 in 1998. But having reviewed the policy documents from the 
provider, I think, on the balance of probability, that it did advise Dr R on this. I think this because although the name of the advising business is missing from the 1998 document 
unlike the 1997 document, the same adviser has signed both applications as verifying Dr Rs 
salary, and has done so as an Independent Financial Adviser. So Im satisfied its likely that 
TCL was involved in the process and advised Dr R to increase his FSAVC contributions in 
1998. 
Because TCL has no point of sale documentation it has upheld Dr Rs complaint that the 
FSAVC in 1997 was mis-sold. But it has said that he wouldve most likely have taken an in-
house AVC had he been properly advised. So the deficiencies in the advice process are not 
disputed here. What needs to be decided is whether Dr R, if he had been properly advised 
about all his options, would have selected to contribute to an in-house AVC, or would have 
bought added years.
In order to decide what I think is most likely, I need to consider everything that I know about 
Dr Rs circumstances at the time. I can see from what he and TCL have told me, and from 
the providers documentation he was:
29 years old and married.
Employed as a Doctor in the NHS.
a member of the NHS Pension scheme for one year, and had a normal retirement 
age of 60.
only able to accrue about 30 years 6 months normal pensionable service out of a 
maximum 40 years.
It should be noted that TCL were Independent Financial Advisers, and as such were subject 
to much more stringent requirements than a tied adviser wouldve been. A proper and 
regulatory compliant IFA-led advice process in 1997 would have required TCL to have 
established what in-house alternatives to the FSAVC were available. And it would have had 
to discuss the specific differences between them with Dr R when making its 
recommendation. The regulator stipulated that the discussion should have included the 
following:
The difference in charges and expenses between the FSAVC and AVC
The choice of available investments
The availability of added years and the number of years that could be purchased
The degree of personal control and privacy
The age at which benefits could be taken
The degree of portability on changing jobs or becoming self-employed.
So in addition to comparing the cost of an FSAVC with the available in house AVC, the 
adviser was required to have found out how many added years Dr R couldve purchased, 
and advised that these would be paid for as a percentage of his salary. It should also have 
explained the features of added years which were relevant to Dr R and how they would 
provide him a guaranteed benefit, as opposed to the FSAVC or AVC where growth was 
dependent on investment performance.
Dr R was 29 years old and had been in the NHS scheme for one year. The maximum 
number of years that could be accrued in the scheme for a maximum pension was 40 years. 
So given Dr Rs age when he joined, he was only going to be able to accrue 30 years and 6 
months through normal contributions. This is a relatively large shortfall, and one that I think 
is reasonable to assume, had he been properly advised, he wouldve been aware could have had a significant impact on his potential retirement income. So Im satisfied Dr R would have 
been looking for the most appropriate way to increase his retirement provision.
At the time of the advice in 1997 Dr R was provided an FSAVC illustration of potential 
investment growth and benefits payable aged 65 using low (6%), medium (9%) and high 
(12%) growth rates. These, based on total contributions of £31,200 provided estimated 
benefits at 65 of an additional annual pension of £6,960 (low), £15,100 (medium) and 
£33,200 (high). But the adviser made an error here in Dr Rs normal retirement age (it was 
60), so these projections were not truly representative of Dr Rs retirement provision and so 
werent reliable. So I can see how, given the potential investment growth he was presented 
with, these would have been an attractive proposition, especially as they also provided 
certainty in contribution levels, as these would not have to increase over the term of the plan. 
And it is likely, given that the charges associated with the AVC were probably less that the 
FSAVC, that the projected growth from the AVC, had this been presented to Dr R, wouldve 
been more attractive still.
So there were advantages to the purchase of an AVC over added years. In addition to the 
potential growth, the AVC would also have allowed Dr R some choice around the 
investments within his pension. I can see from the provider document that he chose a 
Growth pension fund  I think this indicates that he was prepared to take some investment 
risk in order to achieve growth. And he would have been able to pause, increase or 
decrease his contributions in response to changes in his circumstances. But the purchase of 
added years did not allow this flexibility  they would be based on a set percentage of his 
salary up until he reached 60 years old.
However, it is significant that at the time of the advice the NHS pension plan provided 
defined benefits on retirement. This meant that Dr Rs pension would be based on the 
highest salary he achieved in his last three years of service, and these benefits were 
guaranteed and not subject to investment volatility.
So, whilst I acknowledge that contributions into an AVC could have given certainty around 
contribution levels and flexibility should Dr Rs circumstances change, I dont think on 
balance, that this would have been critical to him. I think this because he was starting out in 
a career in the NHS, and whilst moving employers during the course of a working life is quite 
common with some employees, this doesnt tend to be the case with doctors. And in all 
likelihood, Dr R would have expected his salary to rise quite significantly. So, whilst added 
years may have appeared more expensive at the outset, I dont think affordability would 
have been a strong consideration for him. I think it more likely that the potential for a 
valuable guaranteed larger pension from the purchase of added years would have been the 
most attractive option. And as Dr R was married this wouldve also meant an increase to the 
guaranteed spouses death benefits.
Any additional years purchased would provide guaranteed retirement benefits. Given the fact 
that Dr R was going to be short of over nine years pensionable service at his retirement, I 
think it is likely that had he been aware he could purchase additional years, without taking 
any investment risk to achieve his goal, it is likely that he would have done just that. 
Having taken everything into consideration, I think on balance, that had Dr R been suitably 
advised, he would have purchased added years instead of an FSAVC or AVC. But having 
satisfied myself of this, I have to consider how many added years Dr R would probably have 
bought. 
Information from the scheme (dated 1998) showed that Dr R wouldve had to pay an 
additional 0.72% of his salary for each additional full year purchased. If he had wished to 
purchase his entire shortfall of 9 years 6 months this would have meant an approximate additional 6.84% of his salary, which would have equated to about £120 per month  
considerably more than the £75 gross contributions he made to the FSAVC in 1997. 
Because of the passage of time and the lack of sales documentation I cannot know for sure 
what his level of disposable income was. But I do think it likely that Dr R wouldve made as 
large a contribution as he felt affordable at the time, and the only guidance I have is the 
amount he actually paid into the FSAVC. I think it likely that had he been able to afford more 
in 1997, his contributions would have reflected that, as indeed they did when he increased 
them the following year as a result of an increased salary. So I think it likely that Dr R would 
have purchased added years up to the value of the contributions he made to the FSAVC in 
1997 and further in 1998. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Dr R as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
TCL must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators FSAVC review 
methodology on an added years basis. This involves using, in part, the Pension Review 
methodology as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. The calculation should take into 
account the fact that Dr R bought four additional added years in 2007, and consider whether 
he would have received more than this had he bought them in 1997 and 1998 to the value of 
his FSAVC contributions. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Dr R's acceptance of the decision. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Dr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Dr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed 
to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £160,000 I may only recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
I require TenetConnect Limited to pay redress to Dr R as calculated using the methodology 
set out above.
Determination and money award: I require TenetConnect Limited to pay Dr R 
compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000. The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must, where possible, be paid to Dr R 
within 90 days of the date TenetConnect Limited receives notification of his acceptance of 
my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, 
in excess of 90 days, that it takes TenetConnect Limited to pay Dr R this compensation.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000 I also recommend that TenetConnect Limited pays Dr R the balance. I further 
recommend interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes TenetConnect Limited to pay Dr R from the date it 
receives notification of his acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Dr R accepts my determination, the money award is binding on TCL. My recommendation 
is not binding on TenetConnect Limited. Further, its unlikely that Dr R can accept my 
determination and go to court to ask for the balance of the compensation owing to him after 
the money award has been paid. Dr R may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman