DRN-1419429
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2004. Ms B says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Capital One made it clear that Ms B didnt have to take out PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Ms B 
says she would not have willingly taken out PPI and was not aware she had been 
sold PPI. Capital One has told us the PPI was sold on the phone when Ms B called to 
activate her credit card. Although Capital One doesnt have a call recording of the 
sale, I have seen telephone transcripts from around the time of the sale. These made 
it clear that the PPI was optional and the representative was specifically instructed to 
ask the consumer if they wanted PPI. I havent seen sufficient evidence to say that 
on this particular occasion the representative didnt follow the script. I also note that 
PPI would have appeared as a separate transaction on Ms Bs credit card 
statements.
 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make sure Ms B got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
 But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because: 
 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Ms B, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said - including what shes said about not being 
aware she had been sold PPI and the reasons why she would never have willingly taken it 
out. But these points dont change my decision for the reasons already set out.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman