DRN-4099642
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited cancelled her motor insurance 
policy. She wants it to remove records of the cancellation and reimburse her for her 
increased premium.
What happened
Mrs B took out a new policy with Aioi Nissay Dowa. She was told to provide her proof of No 
Claims Discount (NCD) within 14 days of the start of the policy, 17 September 2022. Aioi 
Nissay Dowa said it sent Mrs B a letter and email on 6 September 2022 asking her for proof 
of her NCD and other information. Mrs B said she didnt receive these. Mrs B sent in her 
proof of NCD when her old policy expired. But she later found that Aioi Nissay Dowa had 
cancelled her new policy because she hadnt provided the required information. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mrs B 
wouldnt have been able to provide her proof of NCD until after her old policy had expired, 
which she had done. She thought Aioi Nissay Dowa should have sent Mrs B another 
reminder to provide her information before it cancelled her policy. And so she thought it 
should remove records of the cancellation, provide Mrs B with a letter of indemnification and 
pay her £100 compensation. 
Aioi Nissay Dowa said it had made sufficient attempts to contact Mrs B using two different 
methods, although it couldnt provide evidence to show this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B said she received an email from Aioi Nissay Dowa on 5 October 2022 saying that her 
policy had been cancelled ten days previously. I can understand that this must have been a 
shock for her. 
This service believes that insurers should take reasonable steps to ensure that policy 
holders are told that their policy has been cancelled as this will have serious consequences 
for them and expose them to possible court action. Fortunately, nothing untoward happened 
in the time when Mrs B was without insurance. 
Mrs B said she was following the instructions provided by Aioi Nissay Dowa in its Welcome 
email and hadnt received the email and letter it sent on 6 September 2022. She said she 
sent in her proof of NCD on 22 September 2022, which was within 14 days of the policys 
start date, 17 September 2022. This was received and added to her policy. 
Aioi Nissay Dowa said the request for validation information it sent to Mrs B on 6 September 
2022 was from its underwriters. It said it was a different request from its Welcome letter and 
Mrs B should have acted on it. Aioi Nissay Dowa said it sent a letter and email to Mrs Bs 
correct addresses and she had received other correspondence from it using these 
addresses. 
But Mrs B said she didnt receive this request. And Im persuaded that her account is correct. 
Ill now explain why I think this. Mrs B obviously intended her policy to proceed. She had 
paid for it in full. She complied with the Welcome letters request, and I think she would have 
responded if she had received the underwriters request. I cant see why Aioi Nissay Dowa 
didnt prompt Mrs B for the missing documents when it received her NCD proof within the 
required time. 
I can see in Aioi Nissay Dowas file that it noted that there may have been issues with the 
email sent, though it later said it hadnt received a notification of failed delivery. It thought it 
had also sent Mrs B a text, but there was no record of this. And Aioi Nissay Dowa isnt able 
to provide us with evidence that the letter was sent as evidence hasnt been retained by its 
service provider. 
I also think Aioi Nissay Dowa didnt give Mrs B sufficient time to respond to its requests if 
she had received them. This is because her old policy expired on 16 September 2022, and it 
would take time for her old insurer to provide the proof of NCD and for Mrs B to provide 
another document requested. 
Aioi Nissay Dowa didnt contact Mrs B again to remind her to provide her documents. And I 
think it should have done this given that it made its request before the policy actually started. 
And I think it should have sent Mrs B a notification of the pending cancellation. So I think Aioi 
Nissay Dowa unfairly cancelled Mrs Bs policy. 
To put things right for Mrs B, I think Aioi Nissay Dowa should remove records of the 
cancellation and provide her with a letter of indemnity that she can show her current insurer 
to have her new policy rerated. I also think it should compensate Mrs B for her trouble and 
upset caused by the unfair cancellation and the late notice of this. Our Investigator 
recommended £100. I think this is in keeping with our published guidance and so I think 
thats fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited to do the following:
1. Remove records of the cancellation from any internal and external databases where its 
been recorded.
2. Provide Mrs B with a letter of indemnity stating that the policy was cancelled incorrectly, 
and she need not declare this to future insurers.
3. Pay Mrs B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
cancellation of her policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aioi 
Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman