DRN-2743606
The complaint
Ms D complains Tesco Personal Finance plc (Tesco) have asked for financial information, 
already provided to them, before they will consider the repayment of her credit card account 
with them. 
What happened
Mr J has complained to this service on behalf of Ms D and says Tesco have continually 
asked Ms D to provide an income and expenditure profile, initially to assess if they would be 
prepared to close and write off her credit account and latterly to set up a payment plan. Mr J 
says this is despite the fact this information was provided to them before, along with other 
information about Ms Ds financial affairs and health conditions. Mr J says other banks have 
simply written off debts based on this information and Tesco have added to Ms Ds stress 
and should consider writing the account off.
Tesco says they have asked for the income and expenditure on a number of occasions and 
have not agreed they would write off the account, given this has already been considered by 
this service and they wont revisit this. Tesco says they require an up to date income and 
expenditure profile to establish a payment plan for Ms D and their records show the last time 
this was provided was April 2019. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. 
The investigator felt Tesco were entitled to ask for an income and expenditure profile or any 
supporting information they deemed necessary, for them to decide on the future operation of 
Ms Ds  credit card account with them. 
Ms D was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can see it would be disappointing for Ms D to learn that Tesco have taken a different view 
on her credit card debt, than other creditors she has. Its important to say that this service 
has previously issued a decision regarding whether Ms Ds debt should be written off, so I 
wont be commenting on this. I do understand this is a difficult and worrying time for Ms D 
and when considering this complaint, I will look at whether Tesco have acted reasonably in 
asking her for further information to assess the way forward, regarding her indebtedness 
with them.
Ms D says Tescos had originally agreed to consider writing off her credit card debt with 
them subject to her providing other information including an income and expenditure profile. 
Ms D says this information was provided to Tesco, but they repeatedly asked for the same 
information despite them having this already. Ms D says other lenders have taken a more 
reasonable approach and have written off debts based on her current employment status 
and health considerations. 
The first thing to say here is from the information I have seen, Tesco have only offered to 
review Ms Ds request to write off her credit card account and havent given any assurances 
this would be agreed. I can see since then Tesco have said they are not willing to reconsider 
this and now require the income and expenditure profile to assess the options available 
when putting together a payment plan for the outstanding debt. I am satisfied Tesco have 
done nothing wrong in taking that view, as its for them to decide whether or not they wish to 
write off any borrowings and the fact other banks have taken a different view doesnt mean 
Tesco need to do the same. As I have said before this issue has previously been considered 
by this service, so there is nothing further for me to add on that.
Ms D says Tesco have sufficient information available for them to decide the way forward on 
her credit card account. Ms D says this has been provided to Tesco following their request in 
June 2020, which included a completed income and expenditure profile and other related 
documents. Like the investigator, I cant see any evidence to support a detailed income and 
expenditure profile has been completed by Ms D. I can see there are a number of letters 
from Tescos requesting this information from June through to December 2020. While one of 
those letters suggests the last income and expenditure profile was in April 2020, I am 
satisfied this was a typing error as all other correspondence refers to April 2019. 
From the information I have seen the income and expenditure profiles returned to Tesco 
have been annotated by Ms D or her representative to say:  already provided  or  0  in the 
box for surplus funds. While Ms D may feel this should be sufficient, Tesco deem it 
necessary to have a detailed income and expenditure profile before they consider the next 
steps they should take, and I cant see that information has been provided here. 
Its worth me saying, I am satisfied, given the importance of the debt outstanding here to 
both parties, its not unreasonable for Tesco to request the most up to date information 
available, so they can make the most appropriate decision regarding the outstanding debt on 
Ms Ds credit card account. Ms D suggests that other information has previously been 
provided regarding her other outstanding debts, financial position and related health issues. 
While that may be true, its not for me to tell Tesco these details do not need to be provided 
again or updated given Ms Ds credit card account has been on hold for a long period and 
any information initially provided to them may not be the most current available. 
It follows, while Ms D may not agree, it isnt  for me to tell Tesco what information they must 
accept and in what format that should be presented to them. I would suggest Ms D contacts 
Tesco now to get a clear understanding of what documents and information they need and in 
what format, to help both parties agree the way forward here. 
While Ms D will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Tesco here.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman