DRN-2581908
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about the service received when she made a claim under the home 
emergency section of her household insurance policy. The home emergency cover is 
underwritten by Inter Partner Assistance S.A. (IPA).
What happened
Mrs Hs policy covers a property she lets out. In June 2020, her tenants reported that there 
was a problem with the electrics in the property and so Mrs H made a claim under her policy. 
Mrs H was apparently told someone would come out within a few hours but was then told it 
would be the next day. After Mrs H told IPA it was urgent, it was agreed that a contractor 
would attend that evening. Mrs H says the electrician found a socket which worked and told 
the tenants they could use that to operate the electric hob and the fridge/freezer. He said 
someone would come out the next day to find out the cause of the problem and repair it. 
When Mrs H chased this up the next day, IPA told her it could not make another 
appointment until it had a report from the contractor that attended. Mrs H chased the matter 
again later that day and was told to call back the next day. After chasing again the next day, 
Mrs H was told that the report had been received and as it said there was not a total failure 
of all electrics in the house, the claim was not covered and it would not be going back out. 
Mrs H had the repairs done by an independent electrician who told her that IPA had not left 
the property safe, as there was a short circuit and this could have caused a fire.  Mrs H is 
very unhappy with the service provided and has asked for the cost of the repairs (£720) 
reimbursed. Mrs H also says she spent hours on the phone and writing letters, chasing up 
the claim and dealing with the complaint and wants compensation for this and the 
considerable stress and anxiety caused to her. 
IPA agreed that it could have provided a better service to Mrs H and offered her £70 
compensation for this. However, it does not agree that it should pay the cost of the repairs, 
which are not covered. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend it be upheld 
because, while she agreed that the service was not as it should have been, she considered 
the compensation already offered to be reasonable. 
Mrs H does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
She says her property was left unsafe and IPA were negligent. The compensation already 
offered is not sufficient to reflect this. IPA didnt provide a copy of its electricians report, 
which is unacceptable and it should be held accountable. Mrs H says this matter has caused 
her a lot of unnecessary stress and anxiety and she feels strongly that IPA should 
compensate for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim was made on a Saturday morning and it was Monday afternoon when Mrs H was 
told it would not be covered. Mrs H also had to call and chase for this information several 
times during this period. She says she spent hours on the phone. This should not have been 
necessary. I do agree that IPA could have told Mrs H a lot sooner that the claim would not 
be covered, as the policy only provides cover for electrics where there is a failure of your 
domestic electricity system leaving your home without electricity.
Mrs H also says IPA left the property in an unsafe condition and should have carried out 
some work to make it safe. As mentioned above, I have not seen a copy of IPAs 
electricians report. I have seen the report provided by Mrs Hs electrician. He says 
essentially that there were some loose connections in one or more sockets and the circuit on 
which these faulty sockets were installed was not RCD protected. I understand an RCD 
would prevent electric shocks from any loose wiring. The electrician said the electrics were 
condemnable and should not have been left like this. 
It would be better if I also had sight of IPAs electricians report and it is disappointing it has 
not provided this. However, the fact I dont have this does not have any negative effect on 
Mrs Hs position in this case. It means that the only expert evidence is that provided by her 
electrician and there is nothing to counter what he has said. I therefore accept what he has 
said about the safety of the system and that it should not have simply been left as it was. 
This does not, however, mean I agree IPA was required to carry out any remedial work, 
given it was not covered.  But I do consider IPAs electrician should at least have warned the 
occupants that it was not safe to use any sockets on the faulty circuit. Mrs Hs electrician has 
not said there was any problem with the lighting circuits.   
While I can understand Mrs Hs concern that IPAs electrician apparently did not identify the 
safety risks, I have no power to penalise or fine firms for any wrongdoing. I can however, 
make an award of compensation for any distress or inconvenience caused by an error.     
Mrs H was caused inconvenience by having to chase this matter up and waiting two days to 
find out the claim was not covered. However, shed have always had to get her own 
electrician out to fix the problem and the dangerous condition of the electrics was not caused 
by IPAs electrician. The anxiety about this was not therefore caused entirely by IPA. I do not 
consider that IPAs failings here are enough to require it to pay for the repairs. Overall, I 
consider the sum of £70 already offered to be reasonable to reflect the inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against Inter Partner Assistance SA, as I consider it has 
already made a reasonable offer in settlement of the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 April 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman