DRN-2593833
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with Gresham Insurance Company Limiteds (Gresham) handling of a 
subsidence claim he made under his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr K became worried after noticing signs of movement in his home, both in 
the main building and the conservatory so he contacted Gresham. After arranging for a 
subsidence management company to attend Mr Ks property and carry out tests, it accepted 
Mr Ks home had been damaged by subsidence caused by clay shrinkage. The cause of the 
clay shrinkage was attributed to the roots of three trees nearby.
In April 2019, Gresham agreed to partly settle the claim. It removed the trees and said it 
would carry out any necessary repairs to the main building after the ground stabilised. But 
Gresham said the damage to the conservatory wasnt covered as the foundations hadnt 
been dug to a sufficient depth. On this basis, Gresham intended to decline Mr Ks claim for 
the damage to the conservatory. In its final response letter, it said the damage caused by 
subsidence would not have occurred if the foundation had been dug to the correct depth. 
Unhappy with Greshams response, Mr K asked us to look into his complaint. Our 
investigator said she didnt think it was fair for Gresham to rely on the guidelines it had 
quoted because it wasnt a legal requirement to make sure the conservatory was compliant 
within these guidelines. She said building regulations were the established benchmark of 
good building practice and asked Gresham for more information on this. 
Gresham said the building regulations from when the conservatory was built (in the mid-
1980s) werent specific but indicated the foundation should be at least 0.75m deep, but 
deeper if there were trees and vegetation nearby. Gresham said as there were trees near to 
the conservatory, it relied on the guidelines it had previously mentioned to determine the 
correct depth of the foundations. 
However, the inspection found that the tree roots went 2.5m below ground. And, on that 
basis, our investigator upheld Mr Ks complaint. She said even if the conservatory 
foundations had been dug to the correct depth, she thought it likely the entire property would 
still have been impacted by subsidence because of how deep the roots went. She said 
Gresham should settle the claim in line with the policy terms.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 January 2021. My provisional findings said: 
The facts of this complaint arent in dispute. As Gresham has accepted the claim for the
damage to Mr Ks house, I only need to decide whether I think Gresham is acting fairly in
declining the claim for damage to the conservatory. Ive copied the term Gresham is relying
on to decline the claim below:
We will provide cover for loss of or damage to the buildings caused by any of the
following:
 9. Subsidence or heave of the land on which the buildings stand, or landslip.
We will not cover damage caused by faulty or unsuitable materials, design or poor
workmanship.
When responding to the investigators conclusion, Greshams chartered engineer said the
Ash tree that caused the clay shrinkage was present when the conservatory was built in the
mid-1980s. As the tree was present, he referred to the British Standard. CP101 from 1963.
This stated it was necessary to place foundations at such a depth that effects of shrinkage
were not important. The engineer said because those standards are so absolute they refer
to guidelines applied by an organisation involved in the building of new homes. And, using
those guidelines, he thought the foundation depth ought to be at least 2.1m deep as the Ash
tree was present when the conservatory was built.
The engineer also went on to say he didnt apply the guidelines to the main house as it was
built in the 1930s, before these guidelines were introduced. Gresham remains of the view
that the conservatory foundations at 0.4m deep were not adequate.
Ive considered British Standard. CP101 guidance. It starts by stating it is intended to give
guidance on good practice. It states its for buildings not more than four storeys in height,
and where the ground conditions can be proved to be adequate. It suggests buildings where
foundations are less than 0.91m deep should be kept at a distance from all trees of at least
the mature height of the tree. The Ash tree was indicated to have a mature height of 16.5m,
whereas the conservatory was 6.5m from the Ash tree.
Gresham then used the British Standard. CP01 as a basis on which to rely on guidelines
applied by an organisation involved in the building of new homes. Its engineers relied on
these guidelines when writing to Mr K to decline the claim in respect of damage to the
conservatory. And it was these guidelines used to calculate the revised depth of 2.1m.
However, Mr Ks conservatory wasnt built as a new home or by that organisation. Im not
persuaded those guidelines apply to this conservatory. For this reason, I dont think those
guidelines are relevant to the claim for the conservatory and I wont consider them further.
And I also note that the CP101 from 1963 notes it is guidance, not a requirement of
standards to which the conservatory ought to have been built.
Gresham accepted the damage caused to the conservatory was as a result of subsidence 
this fact isnt in doubt. And it also appears to accept the conservatory had been in place for
over 20 years without incurring any damage, despite the mature Ash tree which was present 
before the conservatory was built. However, Gresham says, in line with the building
regulations in force at the time the conservatory was built, the foundations should have been
built to a depth of 1 meter. It says its engineer considered the conservatory wouldnt have
suffered damage if the foundations had been dug to the correct depth.
Im mindful that building regulations dont apply to conservatories but do seem to be a
reasonable guide of an adequate depth of a foundation for a structure.
Weve asked Gresham to confirm the depth of the foundations for the house, but its not
been able to do so. That being said, on the basis Gresham has accepted the subsidence
claim for the house, its reasonable to conclude the houses foundations are deeper that of
the conservatory. It also seems reasonable to conclude that had the conservatory foundation
been dug to what Gresham indicated was an appropriate depth (at least 1m) and complied
with building regulations (which it didnt need to do so) the conservatory still would have
been impacted by subsidence. This is because evidence of roots was found as deep as
2.5m, so well beyond the depth indicated by Gresham that would have strengthened thefoundations of the conservatory.
The conservatory was built in the mid-1980s and the Ash tree was present when it was built.
It stood for more than 20 years without any concerns about the structure being raised, or
issues with how it was built. It is 6.5m away from the Ash tree, so less than the height of the
tree at maturity. But Im mindful the tree was noted as being mature when the conservatory
was built, so it seems unlikely it would have grown much more since the mid-1980s.
Gresham highlights the British Standard. CP101 said it was necessary to build the
foundations to such a depth that the effects of shrinkage is not important. And while
Gresham has provided its chartered engineers thoughts on the property and shared a copy
of CP101, I still dont consider Gresham has provided any firm evidence to show that even if
the foundations of the conservatory had been dug deeper than 0.4m, the conservatory
wouldnt have been impacted by subsidence.
However, having carefully considered the British Standard. CP101 guidance, I dont think
there is a persuasive argument to say the conservatory was built with defective foundations.
I say this given the conservatory stood for more than 20 years without experiencing the
effects of clay shrinkage. So, based on the information available to me, Im of the view that
Gresham hasnt acted fairly in declining the claim for the conservatory. Im intending to direct
it to settle the claim in line with the policy terms.
Mr K, through his representative, accepted my provisional decision, as did Gresham. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis neither party has asked me to consider any additional evidence, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I outlined in my provisional decision. 
For the reasons Ive given above, Im directing Gresham to settle Mr Ks claim in line with the 
policy terms. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint against Gresham Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman