DRN-4119099
The complaint
Mr and Ms M complain Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed their new savings account 
without explanation. Mr and Ms M say this caused them distress and substantive 
inconvenience. They also say theyve lost out on a preferential interest rate on the savings 
account and a switching bonus - causing them financial loss.  
What happened
Around 13 October 2022, Mr and Ms M opened a joint savings account with Santander to 
take advantage of its preferential rate of interest. They had held an account previously with 
Santander. 
Mr and Ms M had an issue with logging into their new account online. This matter, as our 
Investigator explained, doesnt form part of this complaint and this decision. Later, on 
19 October 2022, Santander wrote to Mr and Ms M and explained it couldnt offer them 
banking facilities and its closed their account with a zero balance. 
Unhappy with Santanders actions, Mr and Ms M complained. Santander didnt uphold 
Mr and Ms Ms complaint. In summary, it said: 
- Looking at the information regarding closing the account, Santander regrets it cant 
offer Mr and Ms M banking facilities
- It appreciates this may have caused inconvenience and Mr and Ms M will need to 
make alternative banking arrangements. Santander apologised for any 
inconvenience this caused
Mr and Ms M referred their complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into 
their complaint. They upheld the complaint part. In short, their key findings were: 
- Santander was able to restrict and close Mr and Ms Ms account shortly after it was 
opened, alongside the terms and conditions of the account, in the same way a 
customer can leave it for another bank 
- Santander arent obliged to give them an explanation for doing so. However, 
Santander should explain to this service why its done so, so we can determine its 
acted fairly. But Santander has failed to do so here
- The terms of the account allow Santander to end an agreement immediately or with 
two months notice. Santander should have provided notice of closure to 
Mr and Ms M
- To put things right, Santander should pay Mr and Ms M £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience it caused     
Mr and Ms M didnt agree with what our Investigator said. They asked that the terms and 
conditions of the account are made available to them as the ones they saw when opening 
the account didnt say anything about Santanders ability to close the account. 
In response, our Investigator said they reached their findings based on the terms provided to 
them by Santander for the time the account was opened. They added that Santander makes 
its terms and conditions of account available on its website, so they are readily accessible. 
Our Investigator sent Mr and Ms M a web link for the terms and conditions in their response.
Mr and Ms M said those terms had no date stamp on them, so how can they be sure they 
were effective for the date the account was opened. They also said the terms covered a 
variety of Santanders products - and the product they applied for wasnt named specifically. 
Santander ought to have emailed them the terms and conditions given thats how they were 
communicating. And it ought to have told them these terms and conditions applied to their 
account. 
As joint complainants, they also said Santander should pay them £100 compensation each. 
Santander didnt agree with what our Investigator said. It said that it acted correctly when 
closing the account in the way it did and does not agree Mr and Ms M are paid £100 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our Investigator then sent a further response to Mr and Ms M. In summary, and not to repeat 
previously made points, they said: 
- The compensation award is in relation to Santander not giving Mr and Ms two 
months notice given it hasnt provided enough information to justify it closing it 
immediately 
- The compensation award they recommended took into account the impact this had 
on Mr and Ms M 
- The terms and conditions are displayed on Santanders website, in a section 
specifically designed for the type of account Mr and Ms M took out. The copy of the 
terms they were provided with pre-date when the account was opened. Santander is 
expected to make this information available on its website, and its done so
- The general terms apply to all its account products
- The compensation they recommended is £100 in total, and that is fair 
Santander continued to argue that it has done nothing wrong in closing the account in the 
way it did. But it accepts it could have been clearer from the outset in supporting 
Mr and Ms M. Because of this it offered £100 for each of them. 
As there is no agreement, this complaint has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr and Ms M and Santander 
have said before reaching my decision. 
Its important to note, my decision focuses on Santanders actions in regard to 
Mr and Ms Ms joint savings account. Their complaint about issues with logging into their 
account is being dealt with under a separate reference at this service.   
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Santander has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Banks in the UK, like Santander, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order 
to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Id also add that as a regulated business, Santanders legal and regulatory obligations 
generally cover the entire period of its customer relationship  from application to eventually 
the end of the relationship. This includes Know Your Customer (KYC) checks and/or 
Customer Due Diligence (CDD).
Santander is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. 
But before Santander closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account. 
The terms and conditions of the account, which Santander and Mr and Ms M had to comply 
with, say that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in 
certain circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Santander has now explained in the detail we require why it closed Mr and Ms Ms account. 
Given what its shared, Im persuaded that it acted in line with the terms of the account when 
closing it in the way it did. 
Mr and Ms M say theyve lost out financially due to not being able to get the interest rate 
they wanted that the account offered, and not getting a switching bonus. Santander say the 
switching bonus didnt apply to them as they werent moving funds from another of its 
accounts. But even if that wasnt the case, I dont think it matters. Thats because I dont 
think theres basis to award any compensation here for financial loss, and for any distress 
and inconvenience caused as Santander hasnt acted improperly in closing the account in 
the way it has. 
I know Mr and Ms M would like an explanation as to why Santander took the actions it did. 
But Im not aware of any obligation under which it must. And for the reasons above about 
what information we consider in confidence, I wont be providing an explanation. 
Mr and Ms M have made several points about the terms and conditions not specifically 
referencing their saving account by its product name, and it not being made sufficiently 
available to them. Ive thought about these points very carefully, and I dont agree. 
The terms and conditions explicitly say theyre effective from June 2002. Given this pre-dates their application and the proximity to when the account was opened, Im satisfied 
they can reasonably be relied on as those applicable to Mr and Ms M. Theyre also clearly 
titled General Terms and Conditions and Important Information. Current Accounts and 
Savings Accounts.. So I dont think theyre ambiguous, and they make it clear they would 
relate to Mr and Ms Ms account. 
Mr and Ms M say they should have been sent the terms and conditions by email given thats 
how they had communicated with Santander. I dont know exactly what Santander did at 
application to signpost them to the terms. But applications normally require new customers 
to affirmatively accept terms and conditions, and I dont think them being available on a 
website is making them unfairly accessible. After all this is also a digital channel, and from 
what Ive seen, Im persuaded Mr and Ms M were able to use and access online channels.
Santander has pro-actively accepted that it could have been clearer from the outset in 
supporting Mr and Ms M. Because of this it has offered them compensation of £100 each for 
any distress and inconvenience caused. Im satisfied this is fair redress. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Santander UK Plc must now pay 
Mr and Ms M £200  thats a £100 each - compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman