DRN-1708729
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy how Brazier Consulting Services Ltd dealt with his claim for mis-sold 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Mr H instructed Brazier to make a claim for potentially mis-sold PPI against Lender S. A 
Letter of Authority (LOA) was completed and Brazier prepared and submitted the claim. The 
claim was successful, and Mr H was awarded compensation. Brazier invoiced Mr H for their 
success fee.
Mr H has complained that Brazier incorrectly completed the LOA, and it only contained his 
previous address. Because of this, Lender S sent the compensation cheque to the wrong 
address, and he hasnt received this yet.
Our investigator said the LOA didnt have Mr Hs current address, even though Brazier knew 
his current and previous address. But he also said that Mr H had the LOA to check and sign, 
before it was sent to Lender S, and the error with the address was not picked up. So he 
thought Brazier werent entirely at fault for the LOA only having Mr Hs old address. Because 
of this, he thought Braziers offer to reduce their fee from £497.61 to £446.32 was 
reasonable in the circumstances, and he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, and he thinks Brazier should reduce their fee further. 
Hes asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. While I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H, having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen a copy of the LOA, which was pre-completed by Brazier before it was sent to Mr H 
for signing. This has the same address, Mr Hs old address, for his current and previous 
address. So Brazier clearly made a mistake when pre-completing the LOA.
But Mr H also signed the LOA to say the details were correct and he wanted Brazier to make 
a claim on his behalf. While Mr H said he thought the address related to the address when 
the account was taken out with Lender S; as the current and previous address are showing 
as the same, I dont think this was the case. I think its more likely that Mr H thought the 
information hed given Brazier would be correctly reflected on the form, so he didnt 
thoroughly check this.Lender S were able to trace Mr Hs account from the information provided and, after 
reviewing the claim, they concluded Mr H had been mis-sold PPI. As a result, they said he 
was entitled to £2,073.38 gross compensation (£1,859.65 after tax had been deducted).
The terms and conditions Mr H agreed to say we will charge you a fee of 20% + VAT (24%) 
of the total amount paid to you in full and final settlement of the claim. As Mr H was 
awarded £2,073.38 compensation, Brazier charged a fee of £497.61 for their services. But, 
because of the error on the LOA, theyve reduced this to £446.32  20% plus VAT of the net 
compensation. This is a £51.29 reduction in their fee.
Braziers error didnt affect Mr Hs claim or stop it being successful, but it has delayed him 
getting the compensation from Lender S. The value of the fee reduction is in line with what I 
would usually direct for the trouble and upset caused by such a delay, so I think Braziers 
offer is a reasonable in the circumstances. And I wont be asking them to further reduce their 
invoice.
However, if this hasnt already been done, I would also expect Brazier to contact Lender S to 
explain whats happened, and to get them to reissue the compensation cheque to Mr S at 
the correct address. And I wouldnt expect them to chase Mr H for any outstanding fees until 
Lender S have confirmed the cheque has been reissued and sufficient time has passed for 
Mr H to have received and banked the cheque (say 14 to 21 days).
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Brazier Consulting 
Services Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman