DRN-3471252
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim under their 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
Whilst Mr and Mrs H hold this policy in joint names, for ease of reading, Ill mainly refer to 
Mrs H as this is her claim. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mrs H made a claim under her legal expenses insurance policy in 
relation to her employment. Shed been made redundant and wanted to pursue claims for 
unfair dismissal, disability discrimination, victimisation and failure to make reasonable 
adjustments.  
Great Lakes assessed the claim and found that Mrs H had documented acts of 
discrimination and victimisation dating back to 2017. And shed raised a formal grievance 
about it in January 2019. But the legal expenses policy didnt start until March 2019 and it 
excludes any claims that arose before cover was in place. So Great Lakes declined these 
elements of the claim as being pre-inception. 
The unfair dismissal element of the claim was considered to have taken place within the 
policy period. So Great Lakes instructed a solicitor to assess whether the claim enjoyed 
reasonable prospects of success. But the solicitor didnt think it did due to the lack of 
evidence. And they had concerns that it wasnt proportionate to pursue either. Based on this 
advice, Great Lakes declined this part of the claim as well.
Mrs Hs legal case against her employer went on to settle out of court. She raised a 
complaint to Great Lakes on the basis that the successful outcome evidenced that her claim 
enjoyed reasonable prospects of success. She also considered some of the evidence the 
solicitors wanted to demonstrated prospects was unreasonable. In addition, Mrs H said 
shed had a legal expenses policy prior to this one, which was in place throughout the acts of 
discrimination and victimisation, and she didnt think she should be penalised for changing 
insurer. 
Great Lakes declined the complaint, so Mrs H brought it to our service. But our investigator 
didnt uphold it. He was satisfied Great Lakes had acted in accordance with the policys 
terms and conditions and he didnt think it had done anything unfair. As Mrs H didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pre-inception
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs legal expenses insurance policy says it 
excludes any claimwhere the date of event is before the date of inception of this policy. It 
defines date of event as the date of any event which may lead to a claim; where there is 
more than one such event, the date of the first of these.
Looking at the information Mrs H provided to Great Lakes, I can see that she relies on 
events starting in 2017 to evidence her claim for discrimination and victimisation. She raised 
a formal grievance about these events in January 2019  which is before the policy started. 
I appreciate Mrs H says she held legal expenses cover prior to taking out this policy, and I 
agree that she shouldnt be left uninsured as a result of changing insurer if shes had 
continuous policies in place from the outset of the series of events. But Id only direct Great 
Lakes to take responsibility for this claim if Im satisfied the main events occurred within this 
policys period of insurance. Where the main events occurred during the previous policy, I 
think its fair that the claim is raised with the insurer of the previous policy. 
In this case, there were significant events  like raising a formal grievance  that occurred 
before the policy started. And because of this, I think Great Lakes were fair to apply the 
policy terms quoted above as the events leading to the claim had already occurred, and 
been formally raised to Mrs Hs employer, before the policy started.  
Prospects of success
Its a requirement for cover under the policy that a claim must have reasonable prospects of 
success which are defined as a 51% or greater chance that the case will be successful. 
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for me to 
evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, Ill look at whether the insurer has acted 
fairly. As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, I wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless I think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, Great Lakes obtained the advice of a panel firm. And they were of the opinion 
that, based on the information available, the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of 
success. They were also concerned that the legal costs to pursue the claim would outweigh 
any likely award.
Having considered the legal assessment, Im satisfied its properly written and well-
reasoned. And its been obtained from a suitably qualified lawyer. I appreciate Mrs H feels 
the solicitors were asking for unreasonable evidence to support her claim, but the advice 
isnt obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. So I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that Great Lakes shouldnt rely on it. 
I appreciate that Mrs H went on to settle her claim. But this doesnt mean that it enjoyed 
reasonable prospects of success at the time it was assessed by the panel solicitors. Many 
claims settle prior to legal action and this can be for a number of reasons, for example, to 
avoid negative publicity or because its more cost effective to pay the claim than the legal 
costs to defend it. But even if Mrs H had won in court, its important to note that the threshold for reasonable 
prospects under the policy is 51%. So even if a claim doesnt meet the policy requirement, 
theres potentially still a 49% chance of it going on to succeed. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman