DRN-3299485
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from losing 
£4,999 to an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mrs B has explained that in April 2018 she was searching for a high interest savings account 
and came across an advert for Greenfields Capital regarding trading in stock and shares. 
She left her contact details for them to call her back so she could find out more information. 
Mrs B was subsequently persuaded by Greenfields Capital to make payments to them as an 
investment.
Mrs B started making the payments to Greenfields Capital from accounts not held with 
Sainburys Bank. The one payment she did make using her Sainburys Bank credit card (and 
which is the subject of this complaint) is as follows:
Date Method Merchant Amount 
27 April 2018 Credit card greenfieldscapital.com £4,999
Mrs B subsequently came to realise shed been scammed by Greenfields Capital and she 
reported the matter to Sainburys Bank. Ultimately, Sainburys Bank didnt refund the 
payment to Mrs B, and so she referred her complaint about Sainburys Bank to us. As our 
investigator was unable to resolve matters informally (the investigator recommended that the 
complaint be upheld but Sainburys Bank didnt agree), the case has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as the investigator. Ill 
explain why. 
Mrs B authorised the payment in question here. This means that although Mrs B 
subsequently lost this money, Mrs B is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Sainburys Bank should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good 
industry practice at the time in many previous decisions published on our website.
Bearing this in mind, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of 
scams. As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in its consultation 
paper entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and 
protecting victims  that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-
list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed 
intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the 
regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect Sainburys 
Bank to update its watchlist and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an 
alert being posted by the FCA or IOSCO. In my judgment, such alerts should automatically 
trigger alarm-bells  and lead to the payment being paused  pending further enquiries (and 
a possible scam warning) to the payer.
Ive noted regulators published warnings about Greenfields Capital as follows: 
On 13 March 2018 (more than a month before Mrs Bs payment), Superintendence of 
the Securities Market of the Republic of Panama published an alert on the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) investor alerts portal 
 warning  that Greenfields Capital was carrying out activities without authorisation 
related to the securities market, including business of intermediation, investment 
advice, intermediation in forex, securities investment manager, inside or from the 
Republic of Panama. 
On 14 April 2018 (again, before Mrs Bs payment, albeit not as much as a month 
before), an alert about Premium Peak Ltd trading as Greenfields Capital was 
published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) warning that it was offering 
financial services in its jurisdiction without authorisation. 
It is not unreasonable to expect Sainburys Bank to regularly updates its internal alerts to 
include information about payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without 
permission. I accept that it did not necessarily follow from the nature of the IOSCO warning 
in isolation that Greenfields Capital were fraudsters. But given the timing of the IOSCO alert 
relative to the payment, I think Sainsburys Bank ought to have automatically blocked it; as it 
had a fair chance to update and communicate its watch-list between the IOSCO warning 
being published and the payment being made.
Sainburys Bank had constructive if not actual notice that the payee might not be a legitimate
merchant  therefore, Im satisfied its reasonable to say Sainsburys Bank, in order to meet 
its obligations summarised above, reasonably ought to have spoken with Mrs B on 27 April 
2018 to check everything was in order before it processed the payment, to protect her from 
the possibility of financial harm. 
Since Sainburys Bank ought well to understand that an authorised scam (like this one, 
where Mrs B authorised the payment but was nonetheless scammed), is  by definition  
authorised by the customer, it ought to have understood that asking a customer to confirm whether a transaction was is genuine or not, without surrounding context and potential 
probing, would be insufficient, in a case like this, to fully protect a customer from the 
potential of financial harm. So I think here Sainsburys Bank reasonably ought to have asked 
Mrs B who the payment was intended for and for the basic surrounding context, and to have 
then proceeded appropriately from there  with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential 
fraud or scam. 
I have no reason to believe Mrs B wouldnt have been open and honest with Sainsburys 
Bank. Sainsburys Bank ought then to have quickly learned from its conversation with Mrs B 
the basic background to the intended payment  that the payment was for an investment 
with Greenfields Capital, following Mrs B responding to a Greenfields Capital advert. 
As Ive already stated, IOSCO published a warning about Greenfields Capital on 13 March 
2018. And whilst I think this ought reasonably to have been sufficient by itself, at the time of 
Mrs Bs payment and the conversation Sainburys Bank ought to have had with Mrs B on 27 
April 2018  the FCA warning would also have been visible.  Sainburys Bank reasonably 
ought to have been aware that at the time binary options/forex traders offering services in 
the UK were required to be regulated by the FCA. Greenfields Capital wasnt regulated by 
the FCA; nor was it licensed or regulated abroad as far as Im reasonably aware. 
In such circumstances, whilst Sainburys Bank had no duty to protect Mrs B from a bad 
bargain or give investment advice, it could have explained to her that there was a regulatory 
warning (or regulatory warnings) and invited her to look more closely into this trader. It could 
have also reasonably explained customer experiences with unregulated and unlicensed 
high-risk investment traders are that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing 
available balances, or from withdrawing them entirely until theyd been duped into making 
more and more payments. After all, at that time, there was information in the public domain  
which Sainsburys Bank really ought to have known about even if a lay consumer ought not 
 about the very high risks associated with binary options trading, including many warnings 
of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and 
Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper 
of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an 
unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City of London Polices October 2017 report 
noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options fraud; Visas Business News publication 
of October 2017 where it expanded its chargeback scheme rules to cover binary options and 
investment disputes arising from merchants often unlicensed and unregulated deploying 
deceptive practices; and so forth). 
So I think Sainburys Bank ought to have at least given Mrs B a stern warning about the 
risks. And ultimately, whilst I cant be certain, I think its most likely that Mrs B would have 
taken the warnings from Sainburys Bank seriously, and decided that the risk of continuing to 
invest with Greenfields Capital was too high to accept. So I think its most likely that had 
Sainburys Bank done what it reasonably ought to have done, Mrs B wouldnt have 
proceeded with this payment. 
Ive considered whether Mrs B should bear some responsibility for this payment by way of 
contributory negligence. However, I think Mrs B was still at this point totally in the dark and 
simply didnt appreciate what she was doing or the potential consequences of her actions. 
She thought she was simply investing with a legitimate merchant and, due to her 
inexperience and lack of information, didnt realise the potential risk of being scammed, or 
the prevalence of such scams. Sainburys Bank has argued that Mrs B should have, herself, 
carried out checks before investing with Greenfields Capital  and that had she done so, she 
would have seen the warnings referred to above. However, I dont think Mrs B would have 
been as aware here as Sainburys Bank ought to have been around scams like this, their 
rise in prevalence, or how to spot them. So whilst there may be cases where a reduction in compensation due to contributory negligence is warranted, in circumstances like this where I 
think it was Sainburys Banks failure to do what it reasonably ought to have done which was 
the salient reason (beyond the scam itself) why Mrs B lost this money, I dont think this case 
is one of them.    
Putting things right
If Mrs B hadnt made the payment, she wouldnt have lost the £4,999 to the scammers. She 
also wouldnt have incurred interest or charges on that amount on her credit card (if she 
indeed did). Mrs B has also been deprived of this money since she paid it. So to put things 
right, Sainsburys Bank should:
pay Mrs B £4,999 to reimburse the payment lost to the scam; and
refund Mrs B any interest and charges she incurred on her credit card account as a 
result of that payment; and 
pay Mrs B interest on those amounts, from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement, calculated at 8% simple per year.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Sainburys Bank Plc to:
pay Mrs B £4,999 to reimburse the payment lost to the scam; and
refund Mrs B any interest and charges she incurred on her credit card account as a 
result of that payment; and 
pay Mrs B interest on those amounts, from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement, calculated at 8% simple per year. If Sainburys Bank deducts tax from this 
interest, it should provide Mrs B with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman