DRN-2291801
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Amtrust Europe Limited hasnt returned an escrow paid 
when B took out a buildings warranty policy.
Where I refer to B within this decision, this includes its representatives who have brought the 
complaint to our service. And similarly, references to Amtrust includes its agents and 
representatives.
What happened
B is company which constructs properties. B took out a buildings warranty provided by 
Amtrust as part of their obligations as the developer on a number of properties it was 
constructing. 
In order to provide the policy, Amtrust required B to pay an escrow. A year later, B requested 
that Amtrust return the escrow as Bs finances had improved. Amtrust declined to return the 
escrow at that time. It said the terms and conditions of the escrow were that it would be 
returned 12 months after a defects period on the warranty had expired.
B said that when it had agreed to pay the escrow, it had been agreed that if its finances 
improved, it would be returned before the usual date. Amtrust agreed this was the case and 
carried out a review of Bs accounts. It said it didnt consider that the accounts showed 
sufficient improvement to allow it to return the escrow earlier.
A complaint was made to Amtrust, who rejected it. The complaint was referred to our 
service. Our investigator didnt think that Amtrust had done anything wrong. She thought that 
the terms and conditions of the warranty were clear that an escrow could be requested at 
Amtrusts discretion as a condition for selling the warranty. She also thought that Amtrusts 
actions in not returning the escrow when B requested it were reasonable, as the evidence 
was that the financial situation of B hadnt improved to a point where Amtrust considered the 
return of the escrow was suitable.
As B didnt accept this, the matter has been referred to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Amtrust requested the escrow because in the period before the warranty 
was purchased, Bs accounts showed it had made a loss. Its also clear that by the time B 
requested the return of the escrow, its accounts showed it had made a profit in the previous 
financial year. 
Looking at the guidance and other information available about the sale of the warranty 
product, this does say that Amtrust may require, at its discretion an amount held in 
escrow as security. Its also stated that escrow amounts are calculated based on the rating 
of the applicant developer and the number of units to be built.
B doesnt seem to raise a concern about the fact that an escrow was required on this 
occasion. In any event, it seems to me that Amtrust acted reasonably in requesting this. The 
information it was presented with was that B had made a loss in the period before taking out 
the warranty.
This is important as the way the warranty works is that relevant defects found in the first two 
years of the warranty fall to the developer to rectify, but if the developer is insolvent or 
liquidated, it falls to Amtrust to rectify. Its logical that where Amtrust was providing a 
warranty to B in a period after it had made a loss, it would assess the risk of B becoming 
insolvent in the first two years as being higher than if B had been profitable. And where the 
risk is higher, it becomes more likely and justifiable for additional security in the form of the 
escrow to be required as a condition for selling the warranty.
It seems to me to be entirely reasonable for Amtrust to request additional funds to be held as 
security in case of insolvency in these circumstances.
B does raise a different concern, which is that they observe that on other developments that 
theyve been part of, and where warranties have been purchased, an escrow hasnt been 
requested. Amtrust has explained that in those cases the circumstances were different.
I cant consider whether the actions taken on other occasions were fair and reasonable. I 
can only look at this warranty, and Amtrusts actions with this particular escrow. 
It does seem to me that the conditions of the warranty do state that Amtrust can require an 
amount to be held in escrow, at its discretion. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that its 
actions in requiring an escrow on this occasion were unreasonable.
Ive looked at whether B was assured that the escrow amount would be repaid if its financial 
position improved. I cant see that it was. There was an undertaking made that Amtrust 
would review Bs accounts to see whether this was possible. Its important to note here as 
well that this isnt the usual process, as the conditions set out are that the escrow would 
normally only be returned a year after the defect period expired.
The accounts referred to by B do show a significant improvement in its financial position. 
That isnt disputed. B made a significant profit in that financial year. But I can see that when 
the arrangements were being made around the escrow, it wasnt a return to profitability that 
would result in the money being returned to. An email sent to B said that the underwriting 
manager, who would make the decision, would need to see an increase in liquid assets. 
Theres no specific amount, or calculation, stated by Amtrust which would lead to the refund 
of the escrow. So I can understand why B queried whether it could be refunded. But equally, 
it had been told what Amtrust would be looking for when it came to assessing whether the 
escrow could be refunded before it was paid, so it could have asked for further guidance. 
Amtrusts position is that while the value of Bs assets had increased in the period between 
the escrow being paid and the refund request being made, this wasnt enough to cover the 
reconstruction cost of the properties in the event that this was required and B was insolvent. 
B hasnt disputed this from the evidence available to me. 
Amtrust was being asked to repay the escrow earlier than it was contractually obliged to, so 
it was entitled to ensure that its exposure to risk was reduced to a level it felt was acceptable. Evidently, it didnt consider this was the case, and so was unable to repay all or 
part of the escrow when B requested it.
So Im not persuaded that Amtrust acted unreasonably when it declined to repay the escrow 
earlier than it was obliged to. It carried out an assessment, as it said it would, and concluded 
that the risk of doing so was too high for it to accept. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman