DRN-4512080
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the valuation Ageas Insurance Limited offered when he made a 
claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr T was unfortunately involved in an accident involving another vehicle. 
He made a claim to his insurer, Ageas. 
In February 2023 Ageas said it would settle Mr Ts claim as a total loss as his car was a 
write off. Mr T was unhappy with the valuation settlement Ageas offered and raised a 
complaint. 
In February 2023 Ageas didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said the settlement it had reached 
was fair. 
Mr T asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator checked the valuation guides in line 
with our approach and found Ageas valuation settlement was reasonable. 
Mr T didnt agree. In summary he says Ageas refused to engage with him and reply to his 
questions as to how it reached its valuation. Hes unhappy with the mileage figure used by 
Ageas to decide a valuation for his car and he doesnt agree the optional extras his car had 
have been taken into account in the valuation. 
Mr T says he has been without funds to buy a replacement car since February 2023. He 
says he is unable to buy a similar replacement car for the valuation amount Ageas offered. 
So he asked for an ombudsman to decide.
When Ageas sent its final response letter to Mr T about the valuation, Mr T replied to query 
the mileage used by Ageas, asked for an update on his Personal Injury (PI) claim and asked 
about the storage of his car. Ageas responded to Mr T on 17 February 2023 and referred 
him to the final response letter it sent on 7 February 2023. However, this letter only 
responded to the valuation complaint. So I asked Ageas if it had answered Mr Ts additional 
questions, given it included them in what Mr T could refer to this service. I also asked for 
evidence of the mileage Ageas used when deciding a valuation by way of an engineer report 
and/or photos of Mr Ts car and odometer. I asked Ageas to provide a copy of the complaint 
call recording and to confirm it offered - or had paid - Mr T an interim total loss settlement. 
Ageas didnt respond.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 November 2023. As Ageas hadnt provided essential 
information for me to decide if the valuation it had decided was reached fairly, I reviewed the 
motor trade guides based on the fairest mileage taking into account the last recorded 
mileage from the MOT - and I included all of the modifications Mr T mentioned that were on 
his car. Having done so, I thought the average of the valuations came to more than Ageas 
had offered. So I intended to ask Ageas to pay the difference. 
I thought Ageas had acted unreasonably in failing to offer to pay Mr T an interim payment of 
the total loss settlement. For this, I intended to ask Ageas to pay interest on the total 
settlement at a rate of 8% simple interest from the date it was in a position to have paid - 7 
February 2023 - to the date it pays Mr T. I intended to ask Ageas to pay Mr T £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
Ageas accepted my provisional decision. Mr T doesnt agree the compensation amount of 
£300 reflects the distress and inconvenience Ageas has caused him. So as both parties 
have replied, the case has been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision is on the same lines as my provisional decision. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Im very sorry to read of the circumstances of the 
incident Mr T was involved in and the impact it has had. Its not for me to consider the impact 
the incident had on Mr T - outside of Ageas involvement in the handling of the settlement of 
his claim for his car. 
We dont decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Ts policy with Ageas says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value 
of the car. It defines the term market value as:
The cost of replacing the car with one of a similar age, type, mileage and condition, 
immediately before the loss or damage happened.
Our approach is to look at the main motor trade guides as we generally find they are a 
reliable way to decide a fair valuation. The guides provide a retail transacted valuation 
which is the amount a customer would likely pay for a similar car from a retail garage. 
The motor guides provide valuations based on research and data for likely selling prices in 
the period of loss for a car of the same make, model, condition, mileage and age. We look at 
all of the available guides - and if the settlement an insurer has reached is within the range 
of those guides, we wont ask it to increase the amount. 
Mr T says his car had a number of optional extras - and he questioned the mileage Ageas 
used when deciding a valuation for his car. Ageas used mileage of 69,239. Mr T says he 
believed the mileage under his car was around 66,000. 
As Ageas hasnt provided evidence that the mileage it used was correct, our Investigator 
checked the last MOT record for Mr Ts car and found that as of 21 November 2022, Mr Ts 
car had a recorded mileage of 65,922. 
So in the absence of evidence of the mileage, we have carried out revised valuations based 
on a mileage of 66,000. 
Mr T told us that his car had optional extras which he believes will make a difference to the 
value of his car. He told us that his car had an additional kit, with upgraded leather seats, 
upgraded alloys and an upgraded sound system. He also said that his car had a full service 
history and was in excellent condition. He has provided photos of his car which were taken 
before the accident. 
So in order to be as fair as possible to Mr T with the information available, we have carried 
out revised valuations to include the mentioned extras. 
This produced valuations which ranged from £12,595 to £13,039. Only one of the guides 
gave a second hand value which increased its valuation by £600 when adding the optional 
extras. This was the lowest of the guides, so this was originally £11,995 without the optional 
extras. 
On 7 February 2023 Ageas offered Mr T a market value of £12,290. Based on the 
information available to me, I cant say that this sum has been reached reasonably as Ageas 
hasnt provided evidence of the mileage, or that it included the extras for Mr Ts car. In line with our approach and my provisional decision, I therefore think Ageas should 
increase the valuation to the average of the valuations we obtained, being £12,817. 
We think its good practice for insurers to offer consumers an interim payment when they 
dispute the valuation placed on their vehicle. This is because at this stage, the insurer has 
accepted the policyholder has a valid claim, its just the value thats in dispute. 
I can see that Mr T rejected the valuation sum offered. But we dont think its fair if an insurer 
simply doesnt offer to pay the consumer an interim payment until the dispute is settled. 
When a consumer disputes the valuation an insurer places on the vehicle, we expect the 
insurer to let the consumer know they have a right to dispute the valuation, but offer to pay 
them an interim payment (usually the amount the insurer values the vehicle at) while that 
dispute is taking place. It should also let the consumer know that accepting the interim 
payment wont affect their rights to dispute it. Where it doesnt do this (even if its offer was 
fair),we will look at the impact this had and factor this in when recommending what the 
insurer needs to do to put things right.
Mr T has told us that hes been without funds to buy a similar replacement car since 
February 2023. As Ageas hasnt shown that it made any offer to pay Mr T an interim 
payment so that he had funds to enable him to buy a replacement car, I think it has acted 
unreasonably here. 
Ageas issued a final response to Mr T on 7 February 2023 and this dealt with his complaint 
about the valuation. However, Mr T replied to query the mileage used in its valuation - and 
asked where his car was being stored and about his PI claim. 
Ageas responded on 17 February 2023 to refer Mr T to this service in line with its final 
response letter dated 7 February 2023. But it didnt answer his questions. And we have 
asked Ageas for information about this, given it told Mr T he could bring these issues to this 
service, but Ageas hasnt provided a response. 
So I think Ageas has caused unnecessary delay and poor service to Mr T. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr T explained that he was unable to drive for three 
months due to the impact of the incident. He has described the circumstances of the 
incident, and the long term and serious impact it has had on his health. Mr T has reiterated 
that he sent several email messages to Ageas which it didnt respond to. 
I am upholding Mr Ts complaint. I think Ageas should increase the valuation to £12,817. It 
should pay interest on this sum from 7 February 2023 to the date it pays at a rate of 8% 
simple interest a year. I understand Mr T says he cannot buy a similar car for less than 
£15,000. Our role is to determine whether an insurer has acted reasonably and in this case, I 
find the valuation checks are the most reasonable way for me to reach a fair outcome in line 
with our long standing approach.
I appreciate that Mr T doesnt agree that £300 compensation is enough to resolve his 
complaint. However, in the context of its poor service, I think a fair outcome is for Ageas to 
pay Mr T £300 compensation for the avoidable distress and inconvenience caused in failing 
to offer an interim payment in February 2023. 
Mr T has mentioned that he sent Ageas emails in relation to a personal injury claim which it 
hasnt responded to. Mr T is entitled to raise a new complaint with Ageas about issues after 
17 February 2023. If hes unhappy with the outcome, he can bring such new complaints to 
this service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following: Pay Mr T a market value settlement for his car of £12,817.
 Pay interest on this sum at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from 7 February 2023 
to the date it pays him.
 Pay Mr T £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman