DRN-2703690
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the claim settlement and service from Assurant General Insurance 
Company. Mr W made a claim for his damaged phone under his mobile phone insurance 
which is included as part of his bank account.
What happened
Mr W made a claim when the glass on his phone was broken both front and back. He sent 
the phone off for repair and when it returned it seemed to have more faults and was 
unresponsive.
After delays with postage and some chasing up Assurant said the phone was damaged 
beyond economic repair. Mr W was sent two replacement refurbished phones the first of 
which he said was faulty. He said he had to accept the second phone even though it was a 
different colour or send the phone back and take £499.97 in cash. Mr W wants a brand new 
phone as a replacement. So, unhappy with the outcome Mr W brought his complaint to this 
service.
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr W wasnt happy with the customer service he received, the phones, or the cash offer.
Assurant said the initial repair of the phone was done within a day of receipt and sent back 
to Mr W 26 June and that Mr W didnt come back to say there was an issue with it until 7 
July. At this stage Assurant confirmed there was a warranty in place and the phone was 
returned. There were some delays with the return postage bag at this point. After four days 
of being in for repair Mr W chased for an update. On the same day Mr W was told that a 
replacement was on order due to the original phone being beyond economic repair. When 
the replacement was sent to Mr W there were further issues and an exchange took place. 
With the next replacement Mr W said he didnt like the colour as it was different to his 
original phone. At this point Assurant offered £499.97 in cash instead, which Mr W didnt 
accept. Assurant said the amount was enough for Mr W to buy a like for like replacement. It 
confirmed colour was cosmetic and not included within the terms and conditions.
Assurant also confirmed it had reviewed calls between Mr W and different members of staff 
and uncovered no issues. It didnt accept that there had been service issues during 
discussions. Despite this Assurant reconsidered the issue around faulty devices being 
provided to Mr W and agreed to partially uphold Mr Ws complaint. It offered him sincere 
apologies and £150 in compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
The policy wording confirms
If your mobile phone is damaged or breaks down we will either: repair the mobile phone 
(where possible) or replace it with a mobile phone of the same make and model.
Replacements
Where we replace the mobile phone the replacement may be a remanufactured (not brand 
new) device,
We will attempt to replace your phone with one of the same colour but we cant guarantee to 
do this or replace any limited or special edition mobile phones.
Looking at the wording of the policy I think Assurant has acted in line with this and I dont 
think its acted unreasonably.
Mr W also said he was losing money from work due to not having the phone, but Assurant 
referred to the policy wording here too:
What you are NOT covered for:
Other losses:
Any cost or losses that cant be resolved by the repair or replacement of your mobile phone. 
We dont cover any loss or profit, opportunity, goodwill or similar losses. We just cover the 
mobile phone, unauthorised network charges and accessories.
In relation to work costs I think Assurant acted reasonably when it referred to the policy as to 
why it wouldnt be paying these costs for Mr W. It also said this wasnt a business policy.
Assurant said the terms of the policy were like for like rather than new for old. And made an 
offer of cash in case this would be more acceptable to Mr W. I think this shows Assurant was 
trying to come up with a suitable outcome in line with its policy terms for Mr W.
When Mr W informed Assurant that the replacement phone was now faulty Assurant agreed 
to a doorstep exchange and said it would quality check the returned phone once it was back 
at their repair centre. Assurant said this was a further service beyond the usual processes it 
would follow to try and resolve the matter to Mr Ws satisfaction. Assurant said on the 
returned phone no faults could be found. I think this shows Assurant made fair and 
reasonable offers to try and resolve Mr Ws phone claim issues.
Assurant did accept the first repair was faulty and delays with the return postage bags. But 
didnt agree the call service had been a problem. Despite Mr W saying hed been told hed 
get a new phone Assurant found no record of this within the calls Mr W referred to. But it did 
pay £150 as compensation. I think this was a fair and reasonable offer given the details and 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Assurant didnt respond to the provisional decision.
Mr W came back and said this service had sided with the insurance company. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the response to my provisional decision I see no reason to change it. So, my 
provisional decision is now my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.I make no award against Assurant General Insurance Company.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman