The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs J and Mr J bought a regular premium MPPI policy in August 1993. They purchased the 
policy during a meeting with an advisor from Halifax in one of its branches. The mortgage 
ended in December 2000.
Mrs J and Mr J say the information was not made clear either verbally, in the meeting or in 
writing at any time. They add that Halifax failed to give facts that the policy was optional.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs J and Mr Js complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs J and Mr Js case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold   
Mrs J and Mr Js complaint because of the following reasons:
Mrs J and Mr J say Halifax failed to give facts that the policy was optional.
I acknowledge what Mrs J and Mr J have said. I cant be sure exactly what was
discussed between Mrs J and Mr J and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also
mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections of
what happened can fade over time.
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats
not surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive
seen. It has though, provided a letter from August 1993 that it sent to Mrs J and Mr J.
I can see in this letter that the MPPI policy is presented as an optional requirement
and Halifax has provided clear costs for it too.
DRN-1724104Without anything else to support what Mrs J and Mr J have told me, and based on 
what I know of sales conducted by Halifax during that time and the letter that I have 
seen, I cant safely conclude that Halifax didnt make them aware that the policy was 
optional. 
 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mrs J and Mr J during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed 
that this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mrs J and Mr J, it had to 
ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for their needs. 
 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mrs J and Mr J based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. Mrs J and Mr J say they would have both been entitled to sick pay (both at least 
3 months full pay). So the benefit would have been of use to Mrs J and Mr J during a 
difficult time as she could have used their provisions to pay for other expenses. I 
think, on balance, Mrs J and Mr J had a need for this cover based on their 
circumstances at the date of sale, for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term 
that would make the policy unsuitable for them either.
 
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mrs J and Mr J took out (within the letter sent to them in August 1993) but even 
though it has provided information detailing the cover and how much it cost, I cannot 
be sure that these costs were disclosed to Mrs J and Mr J in a clear and fair way in 
the meeting. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I dont think Mrs J and Mr 
J would have done anything different and decided against having the policy for the 
reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs J and Mr J wouldve been affected by any of these.
 
Finally, Mrs J and Mr J have said that their concerns regarding commission and an unfair 
relationship be reconsidered. They have mentioned a case where they say a judge ruled in 
favour of the complainant rather than follow the FCAs rules and guidance. I agree with our 
adjudicator when they say the judgement in that instance was based on the circumstances 
of that particular case. 
I can see that Mrs J and Mr Js mortgage ended in December 2000 and when I consider this 
and the particular details in their complaint, I dont think the rules and guidance on 
commission and unfair relationships applies. So it follows that I dont think this needs to be 
reconsidered.
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mrs J and 
Mr Js complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs J and Mr Js complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 27July2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman