DRN-3977305
The complaint
Mrs A and Mrs R are unhappy with the decision made by AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) 
following a claim for escape of water under their home insurance policy. 
Mrs A and Mr R are both parties to this complaint. Mrs A has primarily dealt with AXA. For 
ease of reference I have referred to Mrs A throughout this final decision. 
AXA are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
agents, company G and company D. As AXA have accepted they are accountable for the 
these companies, in my decision, any reference to AXA includes the actions of company G 
and company D.
What happened
On 10 August 2022 Mrs A noticed a leak in the living room ceiling that had started from an 
escape of water in the bathroom. Mrs A contacted AXA and was told they couldnt arrange 
for someone to attend to the call out that same night. Mrs A arranged for her own builder 
(company H) to come and repair the damage.
 
Mrs A says that the leak was identified and repair work was completed mostly during the 
evening of 10 August, until around 3am the following morning. This included finding the 
leak, fixing the leak, re-fitting a toilet, a shower tray, a bath and the bottom of a sink, 
replacing floor tiles, adding new plasterboards and decorating on the wall and ceiling in the 
living room. 
Mrs A contacted AXA to register a claim for escape of water. She confirmed repair work had 
already been completed. AXA instructed third parties (company G), and (company D) to 
validate Mrs As claim. 
 
As part of company Ds validation of Mrs As claim, Mrs A was asked to provide evidence of 
the repair costs paid to company H. Mrs A provided an invoice dated 11 August for £8,350, 
and she explained that this was paid in cash on 11 August. 
Company D also asked for details for company H, including a registered address, contact 
number and email. Mrs A provided the contact information requested for company H. She 
also explained that family members had provided cash to pay company H on the day. 
Company D asked Mrs A for images of the damage caused to the bathroom and living room 
(where the leak had come from, and where it was first visible). Mrs A sent images but 
explained she didnt take photos of all the repair work, and particularly the bathroom where 
the leak had started before repairs were completed. 
Company D tried to contact company H but the emergency number provided for them wasnt 
responded to. Company D also found that the address provided for company H didnt match 
details for a building company. Company D tried to contact company H by email but 
company H didnt want to engage with company D about the work completed for Mrs A. 
Mrs A had explained that a relative had made the initial call instructing company H on 10 
August. Company D asked Mrs A to provide a call log to evidence the calls with company H 
in respect of the repairs completed. Mrs A explained she wasnt able to get hold of a call log 
as [her relative] feels his privacy is being invaded If you want to seek clarification of calls 
can you speak to the builder and ask him for that information. Company D said that 
company H were not willing to engage with them. 
Mrs A complained to AXA about the handling of her claim, including the interrogation of 
questions to her. 
AXA told Mrs A that they wouldnt be paying out on her claim because there wasnt enough 
evidence to determine that an insured event had taken place. Mrs A was unhappy with this 
response, and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator found that AXA had acted reasonably in reaching their decision to decline 
Mrs As claim, and didnt ask AXA to do anything in settlement of Mrs As complaint. Mrs A 
rejected these findings. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Mrs A feels strongly that AXA have not dealt with her claim properly. I thank Mrs A for taking 
the time to explain her personal circumstances and everything thats happened since the 
incident in her home around August 2022. I understand it has been a difficult time for Mrs A. 
Having reviewed the evidence I dont think AXA need to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs A but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether AXA have acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their decision on Mrs As claim.    
Mrs A says that she has provided proof in support of the damage following the escape of 
water in her bathroom, and that AXA have acted unreasonably in failing to make payment for 
her claim. AXA say that the evidence provided by Mrs A doesnt support a valid claim. 
When evidence is contradictory or inconclusive (or both) I have to make a finding on the 
balance of probabilities. That is what I find is most likely to have happened in view of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. Ive considered the claim history, and the evidence provided by Mrs A in support of her 
claim. In doing so I think the requests for information from company D have been 
reasonable, and in line with what wed expect for a claim of this type. 
Because of the value of Mrs As claim, and the unusual circumstances reported about 
contractors working overnight to get the repairs completed, and cash being paid without any 
audit trail of where this money came from, I dont think it was unreasonable for company D to 
ask further questions about the claim details. 
Mrs A says she instructed company H to get work done as the repairs needed to be 
completed right away due to Mrs As disability. I can appreciate that Mrs A had a need for 
the work to be done right away and therefore she felt that instructing her own contractor 
would be the best course of action. 
Ive looked at the invoice provided by company H. There are 20 repair items listed on this 
invoice, excluding plumbing work. Mrs A says this work was mainly completed overnight, 
and some of the painting work completed in the days that followed. 
Its not usual practice for any business to work overnight until 3am. I think it was reasonable 
for company D to question work completed at these hours. Mrs A also said more contractors 
returned the following morning. Its unclear whether these were the same people that had 
already spent time working overnight. I think it was fair for company D to ask Mrs A further 
questions about the company shed instructed, and where shed found their details from. 
Mrs A said theyd used company H before. And that their details were found online. 
Company Ds own search showed that the postal address for the company didnt indicate a 
business address for a property management company. Company H appeared to have no 
online presence. The attempts made by company D to reach company H by phone were 
unsuccessful. 
I have seen the email exchange between company D and company H. Company D were 
concerned with the lack of official information about company H, including an invalid web 
address, a postal address that didnt show a property management company, and an invoice 
being generated by company H (and paid) before work was fully completed for Mrs A. 
We would expect a reputable business to respond reasonably to a request for information 
about work completed, and their business contact information. Company H did not want to 
engage with company D about Mrs As claim-  despite Mrs A advising that company H would 
be best placed to answer questions about the work theyd completed on her home. 
I think it was fair for company D to reach out to company H to find out more about their 
business, and the work theyd completed for Mrs A. Especially in this case where payment 
was made to company H by cash, and there was no other way of collaborating what Mrs A 
had explained about the repairs completed as part of her claim.  
Mrs A says its unreasonable for company D to ask for her relative to provide details of his 
call logs to evidence the call made to company H on 10 August. Given the claim 
circumstances, including the lack of response from company H, and the difficulty in 
collaborating the version of events provide by Mrs A about her claim, I think company Ds 
request for this further evidence was reasonable. 
Mrs A also explained that the cash paid to company H was provided by family members. Ive 
considered the time of the incident (late evening 10 August), and the short space between 
the work being completed and company H being paid (11 August according to the invoice). I can appreciate what Mrs A has explained about family and friends helping to pay company 
Hs costs. But as this was an unusual method of payment for such a large amount of money, 
I think company Ds questions about this were reasonable.
Company D have also questioned the lack of photographic evidence of the damage claimed 
for. Ive reviewed the invoice showing the damage repaired by company H. This shows 
substantial repair work completed to the sum of £8,000- excluding plumbing. But the photos 
provided by Mrs A dont support this. These images shows some areas of damage, but dont 
reflect the full scope of work shown in the invoice prepared by company H. As AXA would be 
paying Mrs As claim based on the damage caused by the escape of water, I think company 
Ds request for clear and full images evidencing the damage claimed for was reasonable. 
Mrs A has expressed disappointment with the general handling of her claim, including the 
lack of proper communication with her, and interrogation of the claim details. Ive considered 
Mrs As comments. But I dont think company D have mishandled Mrs As claim in the way 
that she has described. 
The steps followed to investigate the claim, and the timescales in which these were 
completed, were reasonable. Requests for further information, although frustrating, were 
made in order to fully validate the claim. Overall the claim was progressed in line with the 
way wed expect.
I appreciate Mrs As disappointment with this outcome. This situation has clearly left Mrs A 
feeling stressed, upset, and financially out of pocket. But I cant ask AXA to pay for the claim, 
given the evidence thats been provided, and uncertainty surrounding the claim details. I 
havent seen any evidence to persuade me that AXA actions were wrong, or unfair. So I 
wont be asking AXA to take any further action in response to this complaint.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman