DRN-4307693
The complaint
Ms M complains Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) did not identify a carbon 
monoxide leak on her boiler after it attended to the home emergency call outs covered on 
her home insurance policy. She said the leak had caused her health concerns. 
RSA are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the intermediary. As RSA have accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
intermediary, in my decision, any reference to RSA includes the actions of the intermediary.
There are several parties and representatives of RSA involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to RSA.
What happened
Ms M made a number of home emergency call outs when her boiler stopped working. Each 
time an RSA engineer attended, and her heating was left in working order. 
Ms M was unhappy with the service received from RSA and said its engineers didnt do the 
jobs properly. She said she called in her own engineer who identified a carbon monoxide 
leak which she said has caused her exhaustion and breathlessness. She said this should 
have been found by the RSA engineers who attended to her home emergency call outs. 
RSA did not agree it had been negligent. It said its engineers had done all they could on the 
emergency call out appointments.
As Ms M was not happy with RSA, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold her complaint. They looked into the case and said there was 
insufficient evidence to safely say that RSAs action  or inaction  was the cause of any
carbon monoxide leak or its effects. They said there was no evidence to say there was a 
carbon monoxide leak that RSAs engineers missed and therefore they could not conclude 
Ms Ms health concerns were related to any error on the part of RSA.
As Ms M is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the terms of Ms Ms home insurance policy. I saw she had added home 
emergency cover as an additional extra. 
I looked at the terms of the policy to see what this included and on page seven of the terms 
and conditions booklet it says;
Home emergency cover
In a home emergency situation, such as a burst pipe or breakdown of your boiler, well give 
you immediate advice and assistance.
I saw Ms M made a number of emergency call outs when her boiler was not working, and 
RSA sent an engineer each time.
I looked at the records of the call outs. The issues found included low pressure and issues 
with the thermostat. It was noted that the boiler was in a poor condition and needed 
replacing. Ms M was made aware of this at the first emergency call out. I saw that at each of 
these appointments the boiler was working when the engineer left.
I saw that Ms M obtained an assessment of her boiler by her own engineer. Ms M said 
during this assessment a cupboard around the boiler was removed to allow access inside 
the casing of the boiler and it was deemed there was a carbon monoxide leak. She said if 
RSAs engineers had removed the casing to the boiler when it came out to attend her 
emergency call outs it would have found the leak. 
I have considered if RSA should have removed the cupboard and boiler casing when it 
attended the emergency call outs made by Ms M. The purpose of an emergency call out is to 
deal with the emergency. As it was able to get the boiler working each time without removing 
the case to the boiler there would be no reason for it to do this on an emergency call out 
appointment.
There was no evidence from the reports completed by the engineers that Ms Ms boiler was 
found to be unsafe or that a carbon monoxide leak was identified. The cover provided under 
the terms of the policy does not include gas safety checks, servicing, or detailed diagnostic 
assessments. I would not expect RSAs engineers to do anything further to the boiler during 
the emergency call outs than it did.
There is no evidence to show the work completed was not carried out properly or that a leak 
was caused by RSAs engineers. And no evidence has been provided that shows when a 
carbon monoxide leak started. 
I therefore do not think RSA were negligent whilst dealing with Ms Ms boiler and I cannot 
hold it responsible for Ms Ms health concerns. I think it did all it could on the emergency call 
out appointments. It attended all the emergency call outs and left her boiler in working order 
each time. And it made her aware the boiler was in poor condition and would need replacing 
from its first attendance to her emergencies. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint and do not require RSA to do anything further in 
this case.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman