DRN-4388849
The complaint
Miss G complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim on her
commercial vehicle insurance policy and cancelled that policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a commercial vehicle, first registered in
late September 2018.
Miss G was living with her partner, Mr H and she was looking after children of school age. In
April 2021, the mother of Ms Gs partner - Ms H - became the registered keeper of the
vehicle. The owner of the vehicle was a leasing company.
For the year from late July 2021, Miss G used a broker associated with Haven to arrange
insurance for the vehicle on her behalf. According to a statement of fact document, the
owner of the vehicle was a leasing company and that the registered keeper of the vehicle
was a parent of Miss G.
Miss G got a policy to cover her as policyholder and Mr H as a named driver. Haven was the
insurance company that was responsible for dealing with any claim or for cancelling the
policy.
Unfortunately, in November 2021, Miss G reported an accident. Haven dealt with that claim
by arranging repair.
Miss G, through the broker, renewed the policy for the year from late July 2022.
Unfortunately, in mid-October 2022, Miss G reported that that someone had stolen the
vehicle (and its contents).
Where I refer to Haven, I refer to the above-named insurance company. Much of the
complaint is about communications with the broker after it started acting as a claims-hander
on behalf of Haven. Insofar as I hold Haven responsible for such communications, I may
refer to them as being with Haven.
By a letter dated mid-November 2022, Haven said that, when Miss G took out the policy, she
had given incorrect information about the ownership of the vehicle. Haven said that it
wouldnt have issued cover. Haven said it had cancelled the policy and declined the claim.
Miss G complained to Haven that it should pay that claim.
By a final response dated late November 2022, Haven referred to Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Haven said that, under CIDRA, it
could avoid the policy, refuse any claims and need not return any premium. Haven turned
down the complaint.
Miss G brought her complaint to us in mid-January 2023.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that Haven
hadnt dealt with matters correctly as per CIDRA. She said that Haven shouldve voided the
policy, but instead chose to cancel it, acknowledging that the policy existed at the point that 
Miss G made the theft claim.
The investigator recommended that Haven should:
1. deal with the claim in line with the remaining policy terms; and
2. pay £200.00 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience; and
3. remove the record of cancellation.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss G 
and to Haven on 19 September 2023. I summarise my findings:
Miss G made a qualifying misrepresentation and Haven avoided the policy in line 
with CIDRA. So I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Haven to deal 
with the theft claim, or to pay compensation for distress and inconvenience, or to 
change its records. 
As the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate, Haven didnt have to return the 
premium.
Subject to any further information from Miss G or from Haven, my provisional decision was 
not to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Haven Insurance Company Limited to do 
any more in response to this complaint.
Miss G disagreed with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
She told the broker it was her partners mum who was the owner.
All the letters say cancellation not voidance. 
Haven hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIDRA obliges a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when
taking out or varying an insurance policy. If the consumer doesnt take such care, and if the
consumer makes a qualifying misrepresentation, then the insurer has certain remedies
under CIDRA.
Where the qualifying misrepresentation has led an insurer to issue a policy that it wouldnt
otherwise have issued, then the remedies under CIDRA include allowing the insurer to
avoid the policy and to refuse any claim.
Unfortunately, I havent seen much evidence of what happened when Miss G took out the
policy in July 2021 and when she renewed it in July 2022.But from the statement of fact document in July 2021, I find that Miss G had told Haven that
one of her parents was the registered keeper of the vehicle. That was incorrect. Ms H was
the registered keeper. Miss G was in a relationship with Ms Hs son. So Ms H wasnt the
mother or parent of Miss G.
So I dont accept that Miss G took reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation.
And since Miss G mustve known Ms H wasnt her parent, I consider that she made a
misrepresentation that was not merely careless but was either reckless as to the truth or
deliberate. 
When she renewed the policy in July 2022, Miss G made a change to the policy so that she 
was no longer covered for carriage of her own goods. So I find it likely that she said that she 
no longer needed that cover. In any event, I havent seen any evidence that Miss G was 
involved in any business.
From the policy schedule for 2022, I find that Miss G told Haven that one of her parents was 
still the registered keeper of the vehicle. That was incorrect. Ms H was still the registered 
keeper.
So, for the same reasons as before, I consider that Miss G made a misrepresentation that
was not merely careless but was either reckless as to the truth or deliberate.
As Miss G mustve been faced with a question whether she, her partner or a parent was the
registered keeper, I consider that Miss G ought reasonably to have known that it was
relevant to Haven.
I accept Havens underwriting evidence that if, rather than Miss G describing the registered
keeper as her parent, Miss G had described her as other, Haven wouldnt have issued or
renewed the policy. So Miss Gs misrepresentation made that difference to Haven. So I find
that Miss G made a qualifying misrepresentation.
So, under CIDRA, Haven was entitled to avoid the policy and refuse the claim (and, as the
misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate, keep the premium).
The investigators opinion was correct that CIDRA gives a remedy of avoidance, but it
doesnt give a remedy of cancellation (without retrospective effect).
In response to the investigators opinion, Haven referred to the following policy term:
Cancellation with immediate effect / voidance
At Our option, We or Your Broker may cancel Your policy with immediate effect or
void Your policy from inception at any time where; there is evidence of fraud or a
valid reason for doing so, including but not limited to:
1. Deliberately or recklessly telling Us something which is untrue or misleading in
response to any question We ask You when applying for, amending or renewing
Your policy.
2. Carelessly misrepresenting relevant information which, if correctly represented at
the time of applying for, amending or renewing Your policy would have caused Us to
decline You for cover.
3. Where We have evidence of fraud or dishonesty
Where fraud is identified, We may retain all premiums paid.
However, I note that CIDRA (Section 4) says that an insurers only remedies for
misrepresentation are those set out in CIDRA. Also, CIDRA (Section 10) prohibitscontracting out of CIDRA. So I wouldnt find it fair and reasonable for Haven to rely on
policy terms putting Miss G in a worse position than CIDRA.
Nevertheless, the word avoid is a difficult word for a difficult concept. Its proper meaning in
this context is to treat the policy as though it never existed. But, in ordinary use, the word
avoid might suggest a shirking of responsibility. So many in the insurance industry prefer to
use other wording including treat as void or cancel.
Miss Gs response to the provisional decision
Miss G has maintained that she told the broker it was Ms H who was the owner of the 
vehicle. 
However, from the brokers terms of business, I find that the broker was acting on Miss Gs 
behalf in setting up and renewing the policy. So it was on her behalf that the broker told 
Haven that a parent of Miss G was the registered keeper of the vehicle. So I hold Miss G  
responsible for the misrepresentation to Haven.
I understand that Miss G is pursuing a complaint against the broker that she gave it correct 
information which it didnt pass on to Haven. That will require investigation and I make no 
comment on it at this stage.
Miss G has said that all the letters mention cancellation rather than voidance. So Ive looked 
closely at the letters Haven sent in November 2022. The letter of mid-November said that 
Haven wouldnt have accepted the risk and had cancelled the policy.
However, Havens final response included the following:
Unfortunately, had we known the correct details of the insured vehicles Registered 
Keeper at policy inception and the subsequent renewals we would not have been in a 
position to offer you a policy of insurance on any terms. As such, under the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, we are entitled to 
avoid the contract of insurance, refute any claims made and need not return 
premiums paid.
So I find that the final response made clear that because of the misrepresentation, Haven 
was exercising the remedy to avoid the policy and refuse the claim (and, as the 
misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate, keep the premium).
So I dont agree that Haven cancelled the policy rather than avoiding it. And I dont agree 
that cancelling wouldve been worse for Miss G than avoiding the policy.
Conclusion
Overall, I conclude that Miss G made a qualifying misrepresentation and Haven avoided the 
policy in line with CIDRA. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Haven to deal with 
the theft claim, or to pay compensation for distress and inconvenience, or to change its 
records. Also, as the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate, Haven doesnt have to 
return the premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Haven Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman