DRN-4354992
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of a claim made under his 
static caravan insurance.
What happened
Mr M owns a static caravan and has insurance underwritten by Aviva.
After not using the static caravan for several months, Mr M discovered a leak which had 
caused damage, so he made a claim to Aviva.
Mr M was unhappy with the level of repairs proposed by Avivas contractor, which resulted in 
them withdrawing their involvement in the claim. So, Aviva asked Mr M for quotes for repair 
and cash settled the claim.
Aviva apologised for the poor service and communication Mr M had received and paid £100 
compensation. Mr M remained unhappy and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the 
compensation offered by Aviva was fair, so she didnt recommend this be increased.
Mr M didnt agree, and the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Both parties are already aware of what happened during the claim, and as this isnt in 
dispute, I dont intend on commenting on every event or communication that occurred. I dont 
mean this as a discourtesy to either party, instead it reflects the informal nature of this 
service, and my role in it. But Id like to assure both parties that Ive considered all the 
information theyve provided when reaching my final decision.
Aviva accepts there was poor communication during Mr Ms claim, including during calls 
Mr M had with them, that he wasnt kept updated, and he wasnt called back on several 
occasions. Aviva apologised for this. They also changed contractor due to the service Mr M 
received in the early stages of the claim.
Mr M was later unhappy with the repairs that were proposed by the new contractor, and 
ultimately, they withdrew from the claim and carrying out repairs. I acknowledge why Mr M 
was unhappy with the repairs proposed as this was to patch repair rather than fully replace 
the flooring. As that contractor then refused to complete works due to the dispute, Mr M was 
asked to obtain repair quotes instead. The claim was cash settled, and Mr M was able to 
have the repairs completed shortly after.
It took around seven weeks to get to that point of cash settlement. I appreciate Mr M says 
that he could have been offered a cash settlement and had works completed sooner. But 
until the point Mr M was unhappy with the proposed repairs, he was happy Avivas 
contractor was intending to carry out works so there wouldnt have been a necessity to 
discuss a cash settlement alternative. Overall, whilst this added to the timescale due to the 
dispute around the works, I dont think seven weeks from the claim being raised to cash 
settled is an unreasonable timescale in these specific circumstances.
Aviva has apologised for communication and service failings. They also paid £100 
compensation. Having considered all the information provided, I think this is reasonable in 
the circumstances, so Im not going to direct Aviva to increase this or do anything else.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman