DRN-3352615
The complaint
Mr P complains U K Insurance Limited provided poor customer service for a motor 
insurance claim.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr Ps car was involved in a collision with another vehicle. He claimed on his 
UKI motor insurance policy. Initially UKI thought the claim may be settled as split liability with 
the third-party. However it changed its position and decided to defend Mr P as being free of 
any liability. 
Mr P was unhappy with the progress of the claim against the third-party insurer and UKIs 
customer service. In November 2021 it responded to his complaint. It accepted it had 
delayed referral of the liability claim to its solicitors by at least five weeks. It accepted it had 
provided Mr P with incorrect information about progress of the claim. To recognise the 
impact of this UKI paid him £150 compensation.  
In January 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. She said UKI had provided poor 
customer service and had failed to progress the claim as it should have. She added this had 
caused Mr P inconvenience and distress, recommending it pay him an additional £100 
compensation. UKI didnt agree to do so. Mr P felt £1,000 would be more appropriate. So the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Mr Ps also complained about UKIs decisions to initially consider him partially at fault for the 
collision and its refusal to cover damage to some bikes. Those points have been considered 
by this service in separate complaints. This one considers only his concern about UKIs 
failure to progress the claim against the third-party insurer efficiently.  
In May 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In it I gave my reasons for not intending to 
require UKI to pay any further compensation or do anything differently. As they form part of 
this final decision Ive copied them in below. I also invited Mr P and UKI to provide any 
further information they would like me to consider before issuing a final decision.   
what Ive provisionally decided and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKIs accepted it caused about five-weeks delay in the progress of the claim against 
the third-party insurer. Having looked at the available evidence that seems to be 
about right. Some steps in the process were only initiated after Mr P had called UKI 
to enquire about progress. UKI certainly could have been more proactive at points. I 
also note Mr P was given misleading information on at least one occasion. 
Unfortunately motor insurance claims, by their nature, can involve some distress and 
inconvenience. However, I can only reasonably require UKI to pay compensation for 
any additional and unnecessary distress or inconvenience its responsible for. I 
accept the poor service did result in some for Mr P  including him feeling the need to 
chase UKI to ensure movement, frustration and a loss of confidence in the insurer. 
However, I feel the £150 already paid is enough to recognise the impact on him. So I 
dont intend to require it to pay him any additional compensation. 
Mr Ps referred to a medical condition. I note what he says about medical opinion 
being it was likely to have been caused by stress. However, Im not persuaded the 
events considered in this complaint can fairly be attributed as the cause.     
I cant see the five week or so delay caused Mr P to lose out financially. As far as Ive 
seen the primary cause of delay to the claim has been the third-party insurers failure 
to respond to UKI. Thats not something I can say its responsible for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither UKI nor Mr P provided anything new for me to consider. As a result I dont see any 
reason to come to a different outcome to that set out in my provisional decision. So for the 
reasons given above, I wont be requiring UKI to pay Mr P any additional compensation or 
do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require UK Insurance Limited to pay any further 
compensation or do anything differently.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman