DRN-1713724
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) refused to let 
him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr A acquired a second-hand car costing £30,280, funded by a deposit of 
£13,501 and the balance with hire purchase finance. It was some three years old and had 
done 26,480 miles.
Mr A says that two weeks later he noticed there was a problem with the reverse gear. He 
took it to the dealer and he says it couldnt find a fault. The problem persisted and he took it 
back a month later but no problem could be found. He took it back third time and the dealer 
identified a fault. 
He complained to MBFS, but it said that due to the time which had elapsed it was unbale to 
assist. Mr A brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He asked for the dealers records and 
these showed the following:
May 2018 - Issues with gear changes - Replaced gear box body valve and re-
adapted the gears
June 2018 - Issues with the gearbox - Found snap ring broken which may have 
caused the issues on the first visit - snap ring replaced.
February 2019 - Satellite navigation issue.
 
Our investigator noted Mr A had said he still had gearbox problems although it had been fine 
for a period of time. He said the MOT records showed that in little over a year Mr A had 
covered over 20,000 miles in the car and this didnt suggest the car wasnt fit for purpose.
He also thought that the more recent issue had happened some18 months after the earlier 
repair and the car had been used extensively that didnt suggest rejection was appropriate. 
Mr A didnt agree and said he hadnt signed for any repairs and he had not been supported 
by our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MBFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Mr A and it is clear the car had a fault with the gear change, but I 
dont consider I can uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
When Mr A first discovered the car had an issue with the reverse gear he took it the dealer. I 
can see from its records that it carried out repairs. I appreciate Mr A doesnt believe the car 
was repaired, but I have seen the records and I am satisfied a repair was carried out. The 
car was ok for a short period and was then taken back when, after taking advice from 
Mercedes, a further repair was undertaken. 
It seems that this was satisfactory for quite some time, but Mr A says that problems 
reoccurred over a year later. Given the use Mr A made of the car and the time which had 
elapsed I cannot say that there were present at the point of sale. I would add that taking into 
account the high mileage Mr A has covered since acquiring the car it seems that it was 
satisfactory for much of the time he has had it.
If Mr A had chosen to reject it initially I may have come to a different conclusion, but he 
accepted a repair and he has had considerable use of the car. It is a fact that cars do suffer 
wear and tear and heavy use can accelerate that process. Overall, I do not consider I can 
uphold Mr As complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman