DRN-3279851
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly redeemed their residential 
mortgage instead of their buy to let mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a residential mortgage and a buy to let mortgage with Barclays. They re-
mortgaged their buy to let property. There was an error which resulted in Barclays 
redeeming their residential mortgage instead of the buy to let mortgage. 
This resulted in problems over several months, including mortgage arrears and adverse data 
on Mr and Mrs Ds credit files. Mr and Mrs D say this affected their ability to get credit and 
caused embarrassment with business associates and volunteer organisations. They were 
chased by Barclays for arrears. Mr and Mrs D say Barclays took too long to sort this out.
Barclays corrected the mortgage accounts and removed adverse data from Mr and Mrs Ds 
credit files. It offered £1,000 compensation. Our investigator said this was fair.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. They say this isnt enough for all the time they spent trying to sort 
the matter out. They said they felt all Barclays cared about was collecting arrears and getting 
its charge back in place on their house.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays says the error (the wrong account number used for the redemption) was made by 
the solicitor. In its response to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint the solicitor said theyd relied on 
Barclays to provide the account number and for Mr and Mrs D to check it was correct. I can 
understand Mr and Mrs Ds frustration about this. 
Barclays says it could have spotted the error sooner. The redemption funds didnt match the 
residential mortgage balance. And the charge release request didnt match the property 
details. This ought to have alerted it to there being an error. However, it carried on and 
redeemed the wrong mortgage. 
Regardless of who was originally responsible for the error that resulted in the wrong account 
being redeemed, it was perfectly reasonable for Mr and Mrs D to want it put right. 
By the time the complaint came to this service, Barclays had redeemed Mr and Mrs Ds buy 
to let mortgage and refunded overpayments. It had re-instated Mr and Mrs Ds residential 
mortgage and the direct debit. And Barclays said it had removed adverse data from Mr and 
Mrs Ds credit files. So I think Barclays had corrected the error. What remains in dispute is 
whether the compensation offered by Barclays was fair and reasonable.
When considering this, Ive taken the following into account:
This matter went on for some time. The re-financing of the buy to let mortgage happened 
in mid-2020. It appears from Barclays notes that Mr and Mrs D raised concerns about 
what had happened in January 2020. Barclays wrote to confirm the problems had been 
resolved and offer compensation in May 2020. 
Arrears were recorded on Mr and Mrs Ds credit files. This would have been upsetting in 
itself. Their records have been corrected. 
Mr D says an application for credit related to his business was declined due to the impact 
on his credit score. His credit card provider said his card wouldnt be renewed on expiry. 
Mr D felt he had to disclose the problems with his credit rating to business colleagues 
and volunteer organisations, which caused him embarrassment. He would have been 
able to explain how the problem came about when disclosing it.
Mr and Mrs D had to sign a new charge and pay the arrears (Barclays didnt collect 
payments while the account was closed). Mr and Mrs D felt this was Barclays priority and 
I appreciate they found this upsetting. At the same time, I need to take into account that 
this was a necessary part of putting matters right. 
Paying the arrears that built up while their residential mortgage account was closed 
didnt cause Mr and Mrs D financial loss, as these were payments that were owed. But it 
did cause inconvenience, especially as Mr and Mrs D experienced further problems 
when making the payment and when direct debits were re-instated. They received calls 
from Barclays about the arrears while this was going on. 
Mr and Mrs D said they called Barclays almost on a daily basis in an effort to sort the 
matter out. I agree that Barclays ought to have put matters right sooner.
This matter caused considerable upset and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs D. They contacted 
Barclays many times over several months. I can appreciate their frustration when the matter 
wasnt fixed  and new problems emerged. Mr D says he felt anxiety and embarrassment 
about the adverse data on his credit record. Mr and Mrs D say £1,000 is an insult for what 
they had to deal with. Its difficult to find an amount of money that Mr and Mrs D will feel 
compensates them for this and which is fair to both parties. Having taken all of the above 
into account, I think Barclays offer of £1,000 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £1,000 to Mr and Mrs D, if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman