DRN-2245875
The complaint
Mr M makes a number of complaints about American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL) following his account upgrade application.
What happened
Mr M says he applied for an upgrade to his account in January 2020 and paid £195 but 
AESEL didnt send him a new account card despite a number of requests. He also says he 
was told he would receive an introductory offer of promotional points with a business I will 
call A but was later told he wasnt eligible. Mr M says AESEL staff were rude when he 
called it and that he didnt receive promised call backs. He says he didnt receive the 
account cards and cancelled the account but only received part of the annual fee back. He 
also says he was told he would receive 5,000 points with A but didnt and didnt receive a 
new account card until May 2020. Mr M says he has not received appropriate compensation 
and would like an apology.
AESEL upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. It accepts there was a problem in sending the new 
account cards and has apologised. AESEL has refunded the full account fee and paid £150 
compensation and credited Mr Ms account with A with 5,000 points. It says it made clear 
that introductory promotional points are not available to existing customers and tried to 
speak to Mr M. It also says it assumed Mr M could have used his existing account card when 
he cancelled the upgrade and sent him a new card when it became aware in May 2020 that 
he didnt have an account card.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought AESEL had dealt fairly with 
the complaint and paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. The investigator 
thought the 5,000 points were on Mr Ms February 2020 account statement and thought the 
application process made clear welcome points and offers were only available to new 
customers. The investigator thought AESEL had sent a new card when told about that issue 
in May 2020.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says he should be paid a further £450 compensation. He 
says AESEL should have explained the position with the 5,000 points and says it has wasted 
his time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that AESEL has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I dont require it to increase its compensation offer. I realise Mr M will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about what has taken 
place.
There is no question here that AESEL made a mistake about the sending of the new account 
cards to Mr M. I can see that AESEL has explained what the issue was and has fairly 
apologised for what took place. I have no doubt that caused Mr M inconvenience and 
frustration and that he spent some time trying to find out where his account cards were. But 
Im satisfied that Mr M didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of this mistake and that 
AESEL paid what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of £150 compensation. I think that 
award fairly reflects what took place and also think that AESEL acted fairly by awarding Mr 
M 5,000 points with A.
I appreciate Mr M says he didnt receive the points, but Im satisfied they are recorded on his 
February 2020 account statement. I appreciate Mr M may not have realised that, but I cant 
fairly hold AESEL responsible for that. And I wouldnt I have expected AESEL to have 
provided any further explanation as its reasonable to assume Mr M would have noticed the 
adjustment on the statement.
I have looked at the information Mr M would have seen when he applied for the account 
upgrade and Im satisfied AESEL makes it clear that any promotional offers are only 
available for new and not existing customers. So, I dont think AESEL made a mistake by not 
adding the welcome points with A to Mr Ms account. I can see that AESEL has fairly 
refunded the full annual fee in any event and dont think Mr M was misled or suffered any 
loss. 
I have looked at AESEL records and I think it tried to speak to Mr M about what was going 
on. I have made clear that I think AESEL didnt handle the upgrade of Mr Ms account 
appropriately but without listening to the telephone calls between the parties (which are no 
longer kept) I cant fairly conclude it acted inappropriately during those calls.
Overall, I accept there were problems here in sending Mr M the new account cards, but Im 
satisfied AESEL has provided an explanation and dealt fairly with the complaint. I dont think 
AESEL ought to have realised Mr M was waiting for a new account card from March 2020 
onwards as I think it was entitled to conclude Mr M had the previous account card and had 
now cancelled the upgrade account. I also think AESEL acted quickly when told by Mr M that 
he wanted a new account card when it was told that in May 2020.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman