DRN-3344937
The complaint
Mr H complains that a CB Payments Ltd account was set up fraudulently in his name as part 
of a scam.
 
What happened
CB Payments are an FCA-authorised electronic money institution. Coinbase UK are an 
unregulated entity providing cryptocurrency accounts and services. When a customer 
opened an account with Coinbase, they actually entered into an agreement with the two 
different entities. 
For clarity where I refer to Coinbase, rather than CB Payments or Coinbase UK, Im referring 
to the overall services and customer account provided to Mr H by both CB Payments Ltd and 
Coinbase UK, services which, I understand, are accessed through the same portal, using the 
same login details. 
In early 2019, Mr H expressed an interest in investing in cryptocurrency. He was contacted 
by a broker who claimed they could help Mr H make money through trading. Unfortunately 
for him, he was actually communicating with a fraudster.
In order to convert his euro into cryptocurrency, a Coinbase account was opened in Mr Hs 
name. Funds were deposited into the CB Payments account and cryptocurrency was 
subsequently purchased and credited to a Coinbase UK cryptocurrency account. From there 
the cryptocurrency was sent off the Coinbase platform to the fraudsters.
Mr H appears to suggest he knew his funds had been paid to Coinbase but didnt open or 
operate any account with them.
When Mr H was unable to withdraw his money from the fraudulent trading platform he 
became suspicious and reported the matter to his bank and Coinbase.
Its unclear exactly what the nature of Mr Hs initial complaint was, but Coinbase didnt 
uphold it. It said it had carried out identity checks on Mr H, the payments he sent from his 
Coinbase UK account were irreversible and it had no connection with the fraudulent 
beneficiary. 
CB Payments didnt think that we could consider Mr Hs complaint because it was outside of 
this services jurisdiction. It said it didnt relate to any activities that it had carried out. Our 
investigator initially wrote to both sides to say that we could consider the complaint. CB 
Payments didnt agree and, after reviewing its further submissions, our investigator was of 
the view that Mr Hs complaint wasnt about CB Payments, but rather the unregulated entity 
 Coinbase UK. 
In response, Mr H clarified that his complaint was actually that he hadnt opened a Coinbase 
account and the money that passed through it should be refunded. Our investigator thought 
that we could consider the part of that complaint that related to Mr Hs CB Payments 
account. However, they were satisfied that Mr H had opened the CB Payments account, so 
didnt uphold his complaint. CB Payments didnt provide any further submissions.
Mr H disagreed, he explained that he had to provide identity documents to the scammers  
which explained why CB Payments had a copy. And, though he knew of the account, he 
didnt have any control over it.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sympathetic to Mr H, who has clearly been the victim of a cruel scam. However, I dont 
think CB Payments are responsible for his loss. Ill explain why. 
CB Payments say that Mr H would have been sent both an email confirmation to his email 
address and a code to his mobile phone to verify his ownership of the email address and 
phone. Ive seen evidence that Mr Hs phone was verified in the way CB Payments has 
described and that the verification took place from an I.P. address that links to the same 
area as Mr H lives. 
I can also see that the email address hes used to contact our service is the same as that 
provided to CB Payments. It follows that any email confirmation, as well as any other emails 
Coinbase might have sent would have been received by Mr H. He has also confirmed that 
the phone number used to receive the code is the same as the phone number he was using 
at the time. 
It seems unlikely that a fraudster who wished to conceal the existence of the Coinbase 
account or deny Mr H access to it, would use his genuine email address and phone number. 
Theres also no suggestion anyone else had access to his email account or phone, so it 
seems very likely he clicked on the link in the email and either entered the code himself or 
provided it to the fraudsters. This indicates Mr H was, at the very least, aware of and 
consenting to a Coinbase account being opened in his name.
Messages supplied by Mr H also show that the fraudsters asked him on several occasions to 
check his Coinbase account, which I think contradicts Mr Hs claim that he could see the 
account but never had access to it.
Its possible that Mr H didnt actually operate the account himself  I do note that two-factor 
authentication was turned off after the account had been verified  so the subsequent 
transactions could have been done without any further input from Mr H. But, for the reasons 
Ive explained, I cant reasonably conclude that the account was opened and operated 
without his knowledge or consent. Even if it wasnt opened by him, it doesnt necessarily 
follow that CB Payments have made a mistake. Im satisfied with the identity checks it has 
carried out  including receiving a copy of Mr Hs photographic identification. So, theres no 
reasonable way it would have known anyone other than Mr H opened the account. And, 
given my conclusion above, had it taken further steps to check whether it was Mr H that was 
operating the account, I think its likely he would have confirmed that he was  given that he 
was willingly paying money to what he believed was a genuine investment. 
Finally, for completeness, Ive also reviewed Mr Hs original complaint letter to our service. In 
essence he argues that by facilitating payments to the fraudsters, CB Payments should be 
responsible for his loss. Im afraid I dont agree.  Ive seen nothing to suggest that, when Mr Hs funds were deposited into the CB Payments account and cryptocurrency was purchased, 
CB Payments would have known that the ultimate destination of those funds was controlled 
by fraudsters. Neither, considering how accounts of this nature are typically used (to 
purchase cryptocurrency) and the lack of previous account activity to compare his actions 
against, should CB Payments have reasonably believed that the account holder was at risk 
of financial harm from fraud.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, but Im satisfied the evidence suggests he either opened the 
CB Payments account himself or consented to another person opening it on his behalf. In 
either case, I dont think CB Payments made a mistake in opening the account or allowing 
his money to be moved through it, as I think the identity checks it carried out were sufficient 
and proportionate in the circumstances. And, I havent found any other reason CB Payments 
should be responsible for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman