DRN-2779781
The complaint
Mr S says Oakam Ltd lent to him irresponsibly. He says he had a significant amount of other 
debt when he took the loans from Oakam and this meant that he couldnt afford the 
repayments. He thinks Oakam shouldve seen this and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Oakam provided to Mr S between August and 
November 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about these loans can be 
found in the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedweekly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 21/08/2019 £270.00 26 11/10/2019
2 11/10/2019 £442.31 26 15/12/2019
3 15/12/2019 £805.37 52 05/06/2020
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the checks Oakam made before 
approving loans 1 and 2 were proportionate. He also thought Oakam couldve done more 
before approving loan 3, but he hadnt seen enough to say that Oakam wouldnt have lent if 
it had made better checks. 
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that he was up to his credit card limit 
and he was frequently overdrawn. He had a number of other short-term loans outstanding 
when he took the Oakam loans. So, he still thought that Oakam shouldnt have lent to him.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint and I have explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr S provided when he completed his loan applications. 
Mr S said he had a monthly income of around £1,500 for loans 1 and 3, and £1,800 for loan 
2. He said he had regular monthly outgoings of around £350. So, in the first instance, it 
wouldve been reasonable for Oakam to have thought that Mr S could afford the loan 
repayments. 
In respect of loans 1 and 2, I havent seen any further information that shows its likely 
Oakam was made aware of any financial problems Mr S mightve been having at the time. 
Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate his circumstances further. I think it was 
reasonable for Oakam to rely on the information it obtained for this lending. 
So, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Oakam did for loans 1 and 2 were 
proportionate. And I think its decisions to approve these loans were reasonable.
From the information Oakam recorded it seems fair to say that Mr S financial situation was 
worsening at loan 3. He was clearly repaying more on debt than before he took loans 1 and 
2. So I agree with the adjudicator that Oakam shouldve done more before approving this 
loan. 
Oakam looked at some information that it obtained from a credit reference agency and it has 
provided this. Mr S has also provided some excerpts from his credit report. These do show 
that he had some other outstanding credit, but it wasnt a great amount. And Oakam did 
adjust the expenditure figure Mr S provided to account for this when it made its lending 
decision. It added an additional £400 to the expenditure Mr S declared, but even with this 
added amount the loan still looked affordable. There was no recent evidence of repayment 
problems in either set of credit reports. 
Mr S has also provided his bank statements. I can see he was overdrawn on one of his 
accounts and I can also see one other short-term loan at the time he took loan 3. But I dont 
think his bank statements show he had a large amount of other debt. And, again, there is no 
apparent evidence of repayment problems. 
So, I dont think this further information shows that Mr S wouldnt be able to sustainably 
repay loan 3. I think that its reasonable to say that if Oakam had looked further into Mr S 
circumstances then it would still have lent to him. 
So, overall, I think Oakams decisions to lend for loans 1 to 3 were reasonable and Im not 
upholding Mr S complaint about them. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman