DRN-2539649
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is about a mortgage they held with Atom Bank PLC and their 
application for another one.  They said:
they are unhappy the application for a new mortgage, and porting of the product, to a 
new property was rejected; 
the early repayment charge (ERC) was not a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to 
Atom of the mortgage being repaid early; and
the ERC was unfair as it didnt decrease with the term and didnt model any break costs 
for Atom. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage of around £120,000, over 20 years on a 
repayment basis. The mortgage had a fixed interest rate product linked to it until June 2022. 
In section 8 of the document it detailed that an ERC would be payable if the mortgage was 
repaid before the end of the product and the percentage of the amount repaid that would be 
charged. The percentage depended on how far through the product term the repayment 
happened.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs D decided they wanted to move home. They found a property they 
wanted to move to. However, having looked at Atoms website, their broker concluded Atom 
wouldnt allow them to take out a new mortgage on that property, and port the interest rate 
product to it. As a result, no mortgage application was made.  Mr and Mrs D considered the 
lending criteria were restrictive.
Atom said that it understood that Mr and Mrs D were concerned that the house they wanted 
to buy wouldnt meet Atoms lending criteria. It said this was not something it was able to 
provide advice on and so recommended they consult their mortgage broker. In relation to the 
ERC, it said that this had been clearly set out in the mortgage offer theyd accepted. 
Mr and Mrs D werent satisfied with Atoms response and asked us to look at their complaint. 
They subsequently completed their move to their new home. When they did so they were 
charged an ERC of slightly over £2,300. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She highlighted to Mr and Mrs D that 
Atom hadnt declined to provide them with a new mortgage, as they hadnt made an 
application. Rather they had decided not to do so having been told by a third party that it 
wouldnt be granted. As such, Mr and Mrs D said they didnt want to pursue the first part of 
their complaint. She didnt recommend the complaint about the ERC be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said, for example, the ERC 
at five years was almost double the amount of the interest that wouldnt be paid over the 
remaining term of the product. In addition, they believe that Atom wouldnt lose all the 
income it would have expected from the money, as it would be available to re-lend, reducing 
the marginal borrowing or the deposits in their Bank of England account. They repeated that 
they believe the tranche of mortgages that shared the interest rate product they had, were 
loss leaders. As such, they asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Mr and Mrs D confirmed they didnt want to proceed with their concerns about porting 
being refused by Atom as they hadnt actually completed an application, for completeness 
I will briefly comment. A lender is able to decide what risks it is willing to take and, as part of 
that risk assessment, it can decide what types of properties it is willing to lend on. We 
wouldnt interfere with those decisions as long as the lenders criteria was applied fairly to all 
its customers. As such, even had Mr and Mrs D made an application that had been declined, 
any complaint about that issue would have been unlikely to succeed.
The ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage offer that was sent to Mr and Mrs D 
before the mortgage was advanced. It was detailed as being payable for the five years of the 
product at 5%, 4%, 3%, 3% and 2% respectively. Mr and Mrs D accepted the mortgage that 
was on offer and the ERC that was associated with it.
As for Mr and Mrs Ds concern that the amount of the ERC is unfair, I would explain that in 
order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with loans 
made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that money. 
When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money for, it 
has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included in 
those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains 
liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing 
early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to it of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. 
The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way.
Mr and Mrs D consider the ERC is unfair because it doesnt decrease each year and they 
dont think it models the breakage costs Atom will experience if the mortgage is repaid early. 
As I have explained above there are many factors that can be taken into account when an 
ERC is calculated and Atom has detailed to us how it estimated the ERC. Under the rules, 
provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss suffered by Atom if the 
mortgage is paid early, it can make the charge. The evidence of the calculations I have 
seen, although it cant be made publicly available as its commercially sensitive and 
confidential, satisfies me the amount charged in this case was a reasonable pre-estimate of 
loss. I dont think the charge should be refunded.
I have noted Mr and Mrs Ds opinions about the mortgage they held with Atom and the 
resultant losses Atom would suffer, based on their reading of Atoms annual report 
2017/2018. Whilst Mr and Mrs D are entitled to their opinions about the losses that would be 
incurred, as I have explained above, the evidence that has been provided shows that the 
ERC they were charged was a reasonable pre-estimate of Atoms costs. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 10 June 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman