DRN-2632125
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in connection with a 
mortgage that Mr and Mrs B arranged in 1989. Nationwides records indicate the policy was 
taken out in 1991.The policy provided cover for Mr B if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
From the evidence I have seen I dont think that Nationwide recommended the policy to 
Mr and Mrs B, so the key question I need to consider is:
Did Nationwide give Mr and Mrs B information that was clear, fair and not misleading in 
order to put them in a position where they could make an informed choice about the 
insurance they were buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs B are worse 
off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  such as not taking out 
the policy  if there had been no problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
I can see that Mr and Mrs B have put time and effort into their complaint and have strong 
views about the way in which the PPI was added to their account. Theyve said throughout 
the complaint that they didnt know anything about the PPI and didnt agree to take it out. 
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs B that Ive noted everything theyve said. And I dont doubt 
that what theyve told me is their honest recollection of what happened.
At the same time, Im mindful that these events took place nearly thirty years ago. Mr and 
Mrs Bs mortgage account has been closed since 1996. As a result, there is very little 
documentary evidence from the time the policy was put in place. Thats not unusual for older 
cases where accounts have been closed for some time, and we wouldnt expect a business 
to retain documentary evidence indefinitely.
As Ive already said, where there is limited evidence we assess cases on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what we think is most likely to have happened.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr and Mrs B were given a choice about buying the 
PPI. Mr and Mrs B have made a number of points to support their case that they didnt know 
anything about the policy. Theyve told me that Mr B was made redundant in 1992, but he 
didnt claim on the policy because he didnt know about it. Theyve also mentioned a private 
income protection policy Mr B arranged in December 1992, and say it wouldnt have made 
sense to take this cover if he knew he had PPI in place.
Mr B hasnt provided many details about his redundancy in 1992. I accept its possible that 
he didnt claim because he didnt know about the PPI. But the policy had a ninety day waiting 
period before any claim could be made. So I think its also possible that Mr B didnt claim 
because he found alternative employment before the end of the waiting period. As such, I 
dont think I can safely say that the lack of an unemployment claim meant Nationwide hadnt 
made Mr and Mrs B aware of the PPI. 
Ive looked at the schedule for the income protection policy Mr B arranged in December 
1992, after hed taken out the PPI in 1991. The schedule Mr B provided is headed living 
income and looks like it provided a yearly benefit. Im not persuaded it covered the same 
thing as the mortgage PPI put in place in 1991. I accept it was taken out relatively soon after 
the PPI, but this suggests to me that it wasnt put in place to cover Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
repayments. I dont think it likely duplicated the PPI, so I dont think it follows that just 
because Mr B took out another policy some time later means Mr and Mrs B didnt know 
about the PPI when it was added to their mortgage account.
Nationwide has provided a sample of a mortgage statement it says is in a format that 
wouldve been sent to Mr and Mrs B. I think its reasonable to accept that Mr and Mrs Bs 
statements wouldve been in the same format. This shows the PPI premiums as a separate 
item on the schedule of charges. So I dont think it wouldve been unreasonable for Mr and 
Mrs B to have realised that they were paying for the PPI.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was in joint names, although I appreciate Nationwides records 
and its initial response to their complaint suggest it was in Mr Bs sole name. I can see why 
Mr and Mrs B might consider this casts doubt on Nationwides overall assessment of their 
case. But Im not persuaded that the discrepancy in Nationwides records meant the policy 
was mis-sold. The policy was in Mr Bs sole name. It wasnt unusual for PPI to be held in the 
name of one account holder, even if the borrowing was in joint names. Cover was often 
provided for the party with the highest earnings.
The fact that the policy was in Mr Bs sole name (rather than joint names) suggests to me 
that there may have been some discussion, and a decision made, about which person 
should take the cover.
Nationwides records indicate the policy was added to Mr and Mrs Bs account a couple of 
years after their mortgage was arranged, so it wasnt a condition of the borrowing. Again, 
this suggests to me that some sort of decision wouldve been made about taking the cover 
after the mortgage was already in place.Im also mindful that if I accept that Mr and Mrs B didnt know anything about the PPI being 
added to their account, this would mean Nationwide added the PPI and took premiums for it 
without their knowledge or consent. I realise that Mr and Mrs B consider this is exactly what 
happened. But keeping in mind the points Ive made above, and taking everything into 
account, on balance I think its unlikely this wouldve happened. Overall, Im not persuaded 
that Nationwide wouldve added PPI to Mr and Mrs Bs account without some discussion and 
without obtaining their consent.
So without anything else to support what theyve told me, on balance I dont consider it 
would be fair or reasonable to find that Nationwide didnt make them aware of the PPI or 
give them a choice about buying it.
I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs B before 
they agreed to take it. But the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So 
I think it unlikely they would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
Mr B satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. And his circumstances 
dont suggest he would have been caught by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits (such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions). As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and 
Mrs B needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr B says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because of 
sickness or accident. But as Ive already said, I dont think Nationwide advised Mr and Mrs B 
on whether or not to take the PPI. So it wouldnt have had to check whether their existing 
arrangements meant the policy was suitable for them. Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded 
that Mr Bs sick pay meant the PPI policy was mis-sold.
In summary, on balance I think Mr and Mrs B agreed to take out the cover, knowing they 
didnt have to. And given it provided broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to 
it, I dont think they would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) 
if they had been better informed.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman