DRN-3276371
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs K complain about the sale of two mortgages by Curo Advisers Limited.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs K took mortgage advice from Curo, a mortgage broker, in 2020. They wanted 
to buy a new property using a residential mortgage, while keeping their old property.
Curo advised them to take a residential mortgage with one lender Ill call S, and an interest 
only let to buy mortgage with another lender Ill call B. Both mortgage applications went 
through, and in due course completed.
Mr B and Mrs K complained. They said that they hadnt realised that the let to buy mortgage 
was interest only, and they would have wanted to take one on repayment terms. And they 
said there had been problems and delays in the advice and application process.
In particular, Mr B and Mrs K said, there had been delays caused by Curo. The solicitor Mr B 
and Mrs K chose was not on the panel of one of the lenders, so they changed solicitor. But 
Curo only notified one of the lenders of the change, meaning the other lender sent its 
mortgage offer to the wrong solicitor.
The purchase price of the new property increased during the process. Curo says it thought 
Mr B and Mrs K would pay the additional £3,000 themselves, but they said they needed 
additional borrowing. 
This meant a new mortgage application to S. By this time, Mrs K was on furlough and her 
income had reduced. That meant that S offered less than before, meaning Mr B and Mrs K 
were now around £10,000 short. Their daughter agreed to gift them the funds they needed.
Mr B and Mrs K say that Curo didnt advise them that it was part of Ss terms and conditions 
that a person gifting part of a deposit could not go on to live in the property. That meant that 
once theyd bought the new property, their daughter could no longer live with them  which 
has caused difficulties in their relationship with her. 
Our investigator thought that for the most part Curo had handled things appropriately. The 
interest only let to buy mortgage was suitable for Mr B and Mrs K, and Curo was not 
responsible for the change in what S would lend or its terms and conditions. But she said 
that Curo had caused some delay in not telling both lenders of the change of solicitors, and 
recommended £150 compensation for that. 
Mr B and Mrs K didnt think that was a fair outcome, and asked for an ombudsman to review 
their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a let to buy mortgage is not regulated, Im satisfied that I can consider the entirety 
of this complaint, since the let to buy mortgage was sold alongside a regulated residential 
mortgage as one part of a single transaction. Its therefore, to put this in terms of our rules, 
ancillary to the regulated advice  and so a matter that I can consider.
Having done so, I dont think the let to buy mortgage was mis-sold. Mr B and Mrs K say they 
would have preferred a repayment mortgage and werent told until the last minute that it was 
interest only. But I think the advice was clear, that this was always intended to be interest 
only. Thats not unusual for a non-residential mortgage. And it keeps the monthly payments 
down  which was important in this case. 
In respect of the residential mortgage, I dont think Curo wrongly applied for a mortgage for 
the wrong amount. The evidence suggests that it applied for the maximum S would lend 
based on Mr B and Mrs Ks circumstances at the time. And the purchase price included in 
the first offer was the price the property was valued at  it was only later that Mr B and Mrs K 
told Curo that a further £3,000 would be needed.
Ive looked at the communication between Curo and Mrs K in particular, and I dont think it 
was clear until relatively late on that Mr B and Mrs K wanted further borrowing to raise the 
additional £3,000. Once it knew this, Curo made a further application to S. But by this time, 
their financial situation had changed  Mrs K had been furloughed by her employer due to 
the covid-19 pandemic.
This meant that the lender reduced rather than increased the amount it was prepared to 
lend. I can understand why this was upsetting and frustrating for Mr B and Mrs K. But it 
wasnt Curos fault  this was a decision made by the lender. The lender took into account 
that Mrs K was on reduced income and that there was uncertainty over how long that would 
continue. These were exceptional times, and many lenders took a similar approach. And 
there was nothing Curo could do about this  indeed, it seems it worked with the lender to 
maximise the loan amount.
Ive reviewed the communication overall, and I think Curo kept Mr B and Mrs K up to date 
with everything that was happening. The application process did take some time, but as 
Curo explained at the time, lenders were under pressure at this time  their own operations 
were affected by the pandemic and related staffing difficulties, while at the same time the 
mortgage market was booming and demand very high. Im aware from my knowledge of the 
industry and what Ive seen in other cases that many mortgage applications took longer than 
had been the case in the past around this time.
However, there was some unnecessary delay, when Curo told only one of the lenders that 
Mr B and Mrs K had changed solicitors. Curo says this was a misunderstanding, and that 
seems most likely to me  but I do think Curo had a responsibility to make sure it was clear 
about exactly what Mr B and Mrs K wanted.
Im satisfied that £150 compensation is fair for the delay this caused. I dont think it would be 
fair to require Curo to pay more than that, since overall it provided the service Mr B and 
Mrs K wanted, and  given the unprecedented circumstances of 2020  within a reasonable 
time.
Finally, Ive seen no evidence that Curo was aware until the last minute that the additional 
£10,000 needed to make up the reduction in Ss mortgage offer was to be a gift from Mr B 
and Mrs Ks daughter, or that she would be living in the property. Had Curo known that, I 
think it would have been reasonable for it to have drawn to Mr B and Mrs Ks attention that it 
might not be possible under Ss terms and conditions. But as it didnt know that, there was 
no reason for it to have told them about this particular issue. Putting things right
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied £150 is fair compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Curo 
Advisers Limited to pay Mr B and Mrs K £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman