DRN-4163012
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G complain that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox) has unfairly 
refused a claim they made on their home insurance, and also cancelled their policy and 
treated it as never existing. They want Hiscox to reinstate the insurance and pay the claim, 
and compensate them for the trouble theyve experienced.
What happened
Mrs and Mr G approached Hiscox in August 2022 to make a claim related to a water leak in 
their home. Hiscox agreed to assess the claim. As part of that, Hiscox checked Mrs and Mr 
Gs financial records and found that Mrs G had a county court judgement registered against 
her in 2016.
Hiscox told Mrs and Mr G that if it had known about this it would never have provided cover 
as this was against its underwriting policy. It pointed out that there had been a clear question 
about CCJs in the information collected when the policy was sold in 2020 and this was 
answered incorrectly. Hiscox said that it was going to apply the rules covering the provision 
of information by customers (CIDRA), which meant it would cancel the policy back to the 
date it was first purchased and treat it as if it never existed. It said it would refund any 
premiums Mrs and Mr G had paid, but would not meet the claim.
Mrs and Mr G complained, saying that the CCJ had been settled after a court hearing in 
2018 but that this hadnt been updated properly in their financial records.
Hiscox didnt change its position, so Mrs and Mr G asked us to review the complaint.
Our investigator concluded that Hiscox had taken appropriate steps. He said hed checked 
Hiscoxs underwriting conditions and that they said that if there was a CCJ recorded  
whether satisfied or not  Hiscox wouldnt have offered cover. He thought the actions taken 
were in line with the provisions contained in CIDRA. He didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld.
Mrs and Mr G remain dissatisfied with this so Ive been asked to decide the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator gave. 
But I will comment on how Ive come to this decision.
Insurers rely on customers providing accurate information when they both buy or renew an 
insurance policy. They use that information to decide whether to provide cover and if so on 
what terms. Each insurer will have a different risk appetite, laid down in a set of underwriting 
rules.
In this complaint, Hiscox says its underwriting rules say that it will not provide cover to 
anyone who has a CCJ registered against them  whether that CCJ has been settled or not. 
Thats a commercial decision Hiscox is entitled to make, and as such I cant say its unfair, 
even if other insurers might provide cover in Mrs and Mr Gs circumstances.
When an insurer finds that its been given incorrect information, CIDRA provides a number of 
options it can select, depending upon whether it finds that a customer deliberately withheld 
or provided false information, or whether this was a careless mistake.
In this complaint, Hiscox has taken the steps laid out in CIDRA for someone making a 
careless mistake. 
Ive thought carefully about the question Hiscox asked about CCJs in its paperwork  which 
Mr G completed through his broker. The question clearly asks if Mrs or Mr G  as the people 
covered by the policy  have ever been the subject of a CCJ. From what Ive seen and heard 
in phone calls the broker said at the time that hed found a CCJ against Mrs G, which Mr G 
said must be a mistake. He went on to answer the question as no, when in fact there was a 
CCJ recorded.
I appreciate that Mr G argues that the settlement of the CCJ hadnt been correctly recorded 
when it was settled in late 2018 after a court hearing. But I dont think this affects my 
decision. 
I accept that Mr G misinterpreted the question at the time. But theres nothing in the question 
that suggests its acceptable to answer no if a CCJ has been settled. I think that Mr G was 
told that the CCJ existed by his broker, and he could have taken the time to check out what 
the latest position was regarding this. Instead he answered the question as no. I think that 
Hiscox has fairly interpreted this as a careless mistake.
The remedies available to Hiscox in these circumstances say that if Hiscox would never 
have provided cover it can avoid the policy. Thats cancelling it back to inception, treating 
Mrs and Mr G as never being insured and refunding any premiums paid. Thats what Hiscox 
has done, and Im satisfied its applied the rules fairly. 
Mr G says that refusing cover to anyone who has a dispute with a business that results in a 
CCJ is being unfairly treated if the CCJ is settled after a court hearing. I dont know the exact 
details of Mrs Gs CCJ, but I cant say this affects my decision. This complaint isnt about 
whether CCJs are recorded and/or settled or removed, and I cant comment on issues that 
dont form part of this complaint. I can say that Hiscoxs underwriting rules mean it wont 
insure anybody who has had a CCJ, and Ive not seen anything that says a settled CCJ will 
be disregarded.
Taking everything into account Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman