DRN-3879248
The complaint
Mr P complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund payments he made as part of a scam.
What happened
Mr P fell victim to an investment scam. As part of the scam he was persuaded to open an 
account with Revolut. He moved money from an account he held with another financial 
business to Revolut and then onto a genuine cryptocurrency provider. I understand his 
money was then converted into cryptocurrency and sent to a fraudster. 
Mr P sent the fraudsters around £14,000 over about six weeks. He complained to Revolut 
through a representative. It said that it hadnt made a mistake in processing the transactions 
as there was nothing to indicate that Mr P was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
The matter was referred to our service but one of our Investigators agreed with Revolut. 
They were satisfied that there was no reason for Revolut to be concerned or question the 
payments.
Mr Ps representatives disagreed. They were of the view that the activity on Mr Ps account 
was suspicious because it involved a known fraud pattern  a new account, a significant 
deposit of funds and payments being made to a cryptocurrency platform. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017  
is that Mr P is responsible for payments hes authorised himself. But, taking into account the 
relevant rules and guidance and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I think Revolut ought, fairly and reasonably, to have been on the lookout for unusual 
and out of character transactions that might indicate its customer was at risk of financial 
harm from fraud.
Where a firm like Revolut does have grounds to be concerned about a payment, I think it 
should reasonably take steps to warn its customer about the risk of proceeding. Whether a 
warning should be provided (and, if it should, the nature and extent of that warning) should 
be proportionate to the risk the payment presents and strike a balance between trying to 
protect customers and not unduly inconveniencing them. I must also take into account that 
applying significant friction to all payments would be very onerous and would likely be 
impractical for Revolut.
Ive thought about what Revolut did know about Mr P when he came to make the first 
payment. That information was fairly limited. It knew his personal details, that he stated the 
reason for opening the account as spend or save money, that his account was new and that 
he was paying a well-known and FCA authorised Electronic Money Institution linked to a 
cryptocurrency provider.
Revolut did not have a previous customer relationship with Mr P. It did not know his typical 
spending patterns. But that doesnt mean it wasnt in a position to recognise suspicious 
activity  only that the information it had on which to make that assessment was more 
limited.
Mr Ps representatives argue that the activity Mr P carried out was, in and of itself, typical of 
fraud: the opening of a new account, the deposit of funds and the movement of those funds 
to a cryptocurrency provider.  But I dont find it surprising that a customer would open a 
Revolut account and use it immediately for a specific purpose. And, as customers of Revolut 
have the ability to purchase and trade cryptocurrency through its application, its likely that 
many customers will open Revolut accounts in order to purchase cryptocurrency. So, I dont 
find that this pattern of activity is necessarily indicative of fraud. And when considering 
whether a payment should trigger an intervention, at the time these payments were made, I 
think it was fair for Revolut to take into account a range of factors, not just that the payments 
were going to a cryptocurrency provider.
The first payment was for £4,000. Revolut says it provides a general warning when a 
payment is made to a new payee. The warning reads:
"Do you know and trust this payee? If youre unsure, dont pay them, as we may not be able 
to help you get your money back. Remember, fraudsters can impersonate others, and we 
will never ask you to make a payment."
While not specific to investment or cryptocurrency scams, the warning was not entirely 
irrelevant. It prompts the payer to consider how well they know and trust the payee and sets 
out the risk of funds not being recoverable. That said, assuming this warning was displayed 
as Revolut say it was, I recognise that such a general warning is unlikely to have had a 
significant impact on Mr Ps decision making in the context of a sophisticated investment 
scam.
I cant see any reason for Revolut to be particularly concerned about Mr Ps account when 
the first payment was being attempted. The reason he gave for opening the account appears 
to be broadly consistent with the activity he would go on to undertake. Ive also thought 
about Mr Ps age. While I accept that it put him into a group which is considered to be more 
likely to be vulnerable, again, I consider this to be just one of a number of factors that 
Revolut should fairly take into account when deciding whether a payment presents 
heightened risk. The amount of that first payment, though clearly not insignificant, doesnt 
strike me as so concerning that Revolut ought to have done more here  whether that be 
provide a more specific warning or have a human interaction with Mr P. 
The second and third payments were significantly lower in value than the first  amounting to 
a little over £1,500. The fourth payment was for £5,000, but it happened over a month after 
the first payment. And, while I understand that scams of this nature can take place over 
several months  no clear fraud pattern had emerged  there was no significant increase in 
the number, amount or frequency of the payments. Im afraid thats also the case for the 
penultimate payment of £3070. Although it took place around a week after the fourth 
payment, it was for a significantly lower amount. The final payment was for just over £200 
and I cant see it would have been a cause for any concern.
Overall, while I understand this will be very disappointing for Mr P, I dont think the payments 
were sufficiently concerning for Revolut to intervene and question their purpose, or the 
surrounding circumstances, before they were allowed to proceed. Finally, its undisputed that the payments went to an account held in Mr Ps name before 
being sent to the fraudsters, so I cant see that Revolut would have reasonably been able to 
recover the money lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman