DRN-3099561
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Share Centre Limited deducted fees from his share account without 
properly notifying him or letting him know there was a charge for the service it was offering. 
What happened
In 2018 Mr F held his share account and ISA with a firm Ill refer to as B. B had gone into 
administration, and the administrators wrote to all of Bs clients, including Mr F, explaining 
that accounts had been transferred to a new broker  The Share Centre Limited (the Share 
Centre). A few weeks later Bs administrators also sent Mr F the Share Centres welcome 
letter, a tariff sheet and its terms of business  Mr F has explained that he never received 
these emails. 
On 20 September 2018 the Share Centre sent Mr F an email confirming his account had 
been successfully transferred  but here too Mr F has said he didnt receive this email. 
Mr F said he didnt access or know what had happened to his account until 5 February 2020 
when he first accessed it. He said he found it difficult to navigate the website and wasnt sure 
what information he needed to access. He said that he didnt discover the fees being 
deducted from his account until November 2020 when he complained. 
I issued some provisional findings in September 2021. I said that I acknowledged the Share 
Centres position that the emails it had sent about the account were sent to Mr Fs registered 
email address. And I also acknowledged that it did outline what fees Mr F would be charged 
for. However, I explained that given the circumstances of Mr Fs case, I thought the Share 
Centre ought to have made more efforts to get in touch with Mr F through other means  for 
example by post and by telephone. I explained that I thought Mr F was, for all intents and 
purposes, a new client with whom the Share Centre did not have a pre-existing relationship. 
Given that Mr F would now be charged a fee that he had never had to pay before, I was 
persuaded that the Share Centre ought to have done far more to get in touch with him and 
explain the cost of the service it would be providing him.
I also explained that the regulator had been clear about ensuring that processes were in 
place to identify unresponsive clients in circumstances such as Mr Fs  and I didnt 
consider that the Share Centre had identified Mr F as an unresponsive client or that it had 
done everything possible to ensure that he was made aware and accepted the new terms 
which applied to his account. 
I said that given the value of the investments Mr F held in this account, I was persuaded Mr 
F would not have wanted to continue paying the fees had he known about them  and so if 
the Share Centre had telephoned or written to him at the time, I was persuaded Mr F 
wouldve either liquidated his account or transferred it somewhere else. 
I therefore concluded that fees ought to be refunded until February 2020  because that was 
the first date Mr F logged into his account with the Share Centre and ought to have 
familiarised himself with the account, the terms and the fees he was being charged. 
The Share Centre disagreed with my findings, but agreed to pay compensation. Mr F initially 
agreed with the outcome, but subsequently said he thought he should be refunded all the 
fees  not just those charged to February 2020. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been minded to change my provisional findings. 
I understand why Mr F believes he is entitled to a full refund of the fees, but I dont agree 
that would be fair. The basis of my provisional findings was my conclusion that the Share 
Centre ought to have been more proactive in contacting Mr F and raising with him the new 
service it was offering, and how much it would be charging for that. 
Im satisfied Mr F wasnt made fully aware, as he shouldve been, about the charges the 
Share Centre would be applying to his account. 
But when Mr F managed to log into his account in February 2020, I consider it wouldve 
been reasonable and expected that he would familiarise himself with the terms of the service 
he was now receiving from the Share Centre. At this point he had evidently found some 
information to allow him to log-in, and was clearly able to appreciate that his account was no 
longer with B. Given these circumstances, Im persuaded that it was for Mr F to take 
responsibility for his account at this point and find out what was happening to it. 
By logging in online, he wouldve had access to his statements, the account balance, and 
any previous transactions as well the fact that he wouldve had the opportunity to read the 
terms and conditions himself, as well as the tariff sheet. In addition, if he had struggled to 
access this information, he knew enough to contact the Share Centre and enquire about it, 
as he did in November 2020. In my view, by this point, he knew or shouldve known that the 
new service he was receiving had a fee  and he had the information he needed to see that 
the fee had been deducted for several months. 
Mr F says that even if he had known this and complained about it, he would not have been 
able to move his investments away or liquidate them given his complaint  but I dont agree. 
In fact Mr F wouldve had ample time to close his account and make it clear that he did not 
accept the terms of the new service. He wouldve been in position to refer his complaint to 
this service regardless of his account being closed or transferred. But most importantly, 
would then have avoided the additional fees he was charged from March 2020 onwards. 
For all these reasons, Im not persuaded a refund for charges after February would be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
If it hasnt already done so, The Share Centre Limited must, within 28 days of when we tell it 
Mr F has accepted this final decision, refund to Mr F all the fees charged from the date it 
took over his account until (and including) the month of February.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint, and direct The Share Centre Limited to pay the compensation Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman