DRN-4213121
The complaint
Miss R has complained that NewDay Ltd, trading as Debenhams, didnt assist her in getting 
a refund, after she tried to cancel a hotel booking.
What happened
Miss R booked a hotel through a third party website, which Ill refer to as A, using her 
Debenhams credit card. But, because of the Covid pandemic, she decided to cancel. 
Accordingly, she emailed A, but it needed her booking confirmation. But Miss R has 
explained shed never received this, so couldnt cancel. However, she assumed the booking 
was cancelled, because of lockdown.
Then, in September 2021, Miss R found shed been charged. She contacted Debenhams on 
28 September 2021 and again on 2 November to raise a chargeback, but it didnt do so. 
When she contacted it again in March 2022, she was told she was out of time, despite 
having sent her supporting documents in January 2022. Nor did it consider her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. She looked at the three complaint points in turn: chargeback, section 75 
and customer service.
chargeback
Our investigator explained that the chargeback scheme is voluntary, and the rules are set 
by, in this case, Mastercard. These include a deadline of 120 days to raise a chargeback  
meaning Miss R would have had to have a chargeback raised by 7 December 2021. But this 
didnt happen, as Debenhams didnt receive the supporting documents from Miss R until late 
January 2022.
However, she also said that, even if a chargeback had been raised in time, it would likely 
have failed. This was because Covid restrictions had been lifted, and the booking hadnt 
been cancelled, either directly with the hotel, or through A. And theres no evidence Miss R 
responded to an email from A to further explain the situation.
section 75
For a section 75 claim to be successful, a number of conditions need to be satisfied, 
including for there to have been a breach of contract, or a misrepresentation. Our 
investigator was satisfied there were neither of these things here, as the accommodation 
was available to Miss R, and there were no issues with the accommodation itself.
customer service
Miss R feels Debenhams provided her with poor customer service, because on one call she 
was kept waiting for 40 minutes, and on another, the call was disrupted due to a bad line. 
Further, she was passed between call representatives, and had to go through security and 
explain her situation each time. A call representative also gave her incorrect information.
Our investigator agreed that it must have been frustrating for Miss R, but didnt think shed 
received poor service. She thought it reasonable that Debenhams followed its security 
policy, and thought the call disruption was a technical issue. Also, although a representative 
did give incorrect information, this was quickly put right.
Miss R disagreed. She explained that Debenhams had told her she could send her 
supporting documents by post, and had also asked for an extension, which she was granted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, and for the same reasons she gave. A 
chargeback couldnt be raised, as it was out of time. I appreciate that Miss R says she was 
granted an extension, but it wouldnt be in Debenhams power to do this, as the timescales 
are out of its control. But in any event, Im satisfied, on balance, that a chargeback would 
have failed, because the booking wasnt cancelled. Nor are the conditions met for a section 
75 claim. And while I agree that the calls would have been frustrating, I dont think they 
amount to poor customer service such that compensation should be awarded.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman