DRN-3339311
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the result of The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds 
(Prudential) review of the sale of his annuity in 2008.
What happened
I set out the background and my provisional findings to this complaint on 17 January 2022, 
this is set out below and forms part of this decision.
In 2008 Mr P took out an annuity with Prudential. More recently, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), decided to conduct an industry wide review of non-advised annuity sales made after 1 July 
2008. This was generally known as the Thematic Review.
The review examined whether customers were given enough information about the availability of, and 
their potential eligibility for, enhanced annuities. The review also examined if customers were made 
aware of the Open Market Option (OMO), where they could get an annuity from another provider.
Mr Ps annuity sale was reviewed and Prudential concluded that Mr P was made aware of the options 
available to him when he chose to take out an annuity with Prudential.
Mr P and his wife, representing him, didnt agree. They said they dont recall receiving the Key 
Features Document (KFD), that Prudential has relied upon. And even if they did receive it, they didnt 
agree that the information was clear and not misleading. They said Mr P had hypertension with organ 
damage and he was a smoker. But none of the information Prudential said it had given them made it 
clear Mr P could get an enhanced annuity for this. Theyve pointed to the fact the KFD only referred to 
serious illnesses and it had a caveat that the fund had to be over £20,000 after taking tax free cash  
which Mr Ps wasnt. Theyve also said whilst lifestyle conditions were mentioned (in a separate part of 
the KFD)  it wasnt clear that this was linked to getting an enhanced annuity. Mr P says he was never 
asked about his lifestyle or medical conditions.
Prudential says its KFD was deemed complaint by the FCA. And in a call at the time with Mr P when 
he asked whether he could cash in his annuity  it asked if he had any medical conditions and he said 
no. Mr P has said that this was at a point when hed made his mind up and was in relation to 
cashing in his annuity  he didnt realise he could claim an enhanced annuity for his hypertension and 
or lifestyle factors such as smoking  so he didnt want to tell Prudential about his medical condition.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt uphold the complaint, he said that the OMO had been 
made clear. And whilst the enhanced annuity was caveated by the £20,000 limit  the fact that Mr P 
could look on the open market for other providers had also been explained. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree 
 citing the reasons theyd previously given.
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to uphold this complaint and tell Prudential it needs to calculate whether 
Mr P couldve received a higher annuity if his health and/or lifestyle circumstances at the time had 
been taken into account. Ill explain why Ive reached this position, based on the evidence Ive 
received so far.
Prudential itself  when writing to Mr P to invite him to have his annuity reviewed said:
The FCA wanted to establish if customers were provided with sufficient information about enhanced 
annuities before they purchased their annuity. In particular the FCA wanted to establish if customers 
were made aware:
That they could receive a higher income if they had certain medical or lifestyle conditions. 
This is known as an enhanced annuity.
If they were eligible for an enhanced annuity with Prudential that they could shop around for 
an enhanced annuity from another provider in order to potentially get a higher income; and
That even if they were not eligible for an enhanced annuity with Prudential that they may still 
be eligible for an enhanced annuity from another provider.
As an aside, Mr and Mrs P have said they doubt they received the KFD and didnt recognise it  after 
it was sent to them as part of the complaint process. But the covering letter and retirement forms they 
did receive made numerous mentions of the KFD and it being enclosed, so I think on the balance of 
probabilities it was received. Ive looked carefully at the information Prudential says it supplied Mr P at 
the time and in particular the KFD.
Below is page 6  which is the first time an enhanced annuity is mentioned, and the only mention of 
lifestyle factors linked to health.
The page directs those with a serious illness to another part of the KFD  page 11. Which is included 
below:
I dont think someone of Mr Ps circumstances would necessarily have even thought to read this page 
given it says this is only for those with serious illness.
But if they did, the first criteria stated is the requirement of £20,000. Mr Ps fund didnt meet this 
requirement  so its plausible if he did read this that he wouldve stopped here as he didnt meet this 
requirement. Concluding he wouldnt qualify for an enhanced annuity with Prudential. Beyond this  
the description of qualifying conditions is again serious illness such as a stroke or cancer. And it 
goes on to say if you think you are eligible please tell us.
Prudential says that Mr P didnt tell them about his medical conditions  but with Mr Ps circumstances 
I dont think he wouldve thought he was eligible  he wasnt  and so why would Mr P have told 
Prudential about his conditions at this point? His fund wasnt large enough to qualify (minus tax free 
cash amount  and a lump sum was his motivation for taking his benefits) and his medical conditions 
at the time didnt fit Prudentials description of what qualified a person for an enhanced annuity.
So I think someone of Mr Ps circumstances wouldnt have spent too long thinking about the 
opportunity of an enhanced annuity. Prudentials KFD set out conditions that meant he wasnt eligible 
for one.
The FCA set out as part of the thematic review that in the event customers werent eligible for an 
enhanced annuity with the provider, they should be given sufficient information to understand 
they could still qualify for an enhanced annuity with another provider. Someone of Mr Ps 
circumstances reading the KFD wouldve likely concluded that enhanced annuities were for 
serious illness only  and that they werent eligible for it with Prudential due to the fund size 
requirement. There was no direct mention of enhanced annuities being available elsewhere  or 
there being enhanced annuities available for less serious conditions or lifestyle factors without 
serious illness. The information provided needs to be clear, fair and not misleading. I dont think it 
wouldve been clear to Mr P on this point.
Prudentials reasoning that Mr P was given sufficient information, relies on the individual to link 
the enhanced annuity to the OMO explanation elsewhere in the document. The OMO parts of the 
document make no mention of enhanced annuities  and Mr Ps wouldve thought an enhanced 
annuity was only available to those with serious illness.
In terms of lifestyle factors such as smoking  this is mentioned only the once in the document (as 
shown above) and directly after the explanation that an enhanced annuity required serious illness. 
It leads on from the enhanced annuity explanation to say health factors such as smoking may also 
be taken into account. There is nothing to say smoking without serious illness could qualify for an 
enhanced annuity. Given how it is worded and its positioning in the document - I think someone of 
Mr Ps circumstances would likely conclude that they didnt have a serious illness, and only if they 
did, would smoking play a factor in the annuity.
So I dont agree with Prudential, in the circumstances of this case, that the KFD (and the covering 
information supplied with it) meant that Mr P wouldve been aware of all the options available to 
him. Because of the way it was explained in the KFD and in relationship to his circumstances  I 
dont think he wouldve thought he was eligible for an enhanced annuity.
Furthermore, the Association of British Insurers (ABI), which I believe Prudential were a member 
of at the time, published in July 2008 a Good Practice Guide to Improving customers retirement 
experiences. The Guide stressed the importance of providing adequate information to customers 
in relation to enhanced annuities, encouraging providers to draw the customers attention to 
product features and terms and conditions that may significantly affect benefits. Under the Guide 
the provider should In quoting all available options draw the customers attention in good time to 
particular options that may be to their advantage. The Good Practice Guide also provided a 
template cover letter for insurers to use in their packs. The suggested wording in relation to 
Enhanced Annuities was:Do you have a recognised medical condition? Are you a smoker? If so, you may be able to buy 
an annuity that pays more because of these factors. They are known as enhanced or 
impaired annuities.
In the specific KFD Prudential says Mr P was sent  it only referred to enhanced annuities 
alongside the qualification of serious illness. I dont think the information Prudential provided Mr P 
met the standards set out by the ABI  and which I think represented good practice at the time.
I recognise that Mr P was asked in a call later in the process whether he had any medical 
conditions and he said no. However, this was in relation to receiving a cash value in special 
circumstances  and Mr P likely would have thought he wouldnt qualify, given what the KFD said 
about enhanced annuities. The same point stands for why, when he was offered the opportunity to 
hear all the options available to him, he said he didnt need to hear them. And I cant be sure in any 
event (given what we know about Prudentials explanation of enhanced annuities in its written 
documentation) that it wouldve been explained to Mr P that his conditions could qualify for an 
enhanced annuity. And that whilst he didnt qualify for a Prudential enhanced annuity, he may 
qualify for an enhanced annuity elsewhere.
Therefore, unless I receive information or evidence that changes my mind, I intend to uphold 
this complaint and require Prudential to review the annuity sale based on what we now know 
about Mr Ps health and lifestyle at the time. I think had Mr P known he could potentially 
receive a higher annuity  he wouldve explored this option.
I think the fairest and most practical way to consider whether Mr P has suffered a loss, is to use 
the redress methodology from the FCAs thematic review process. This will show whether Mr Ps 
medical conditions and/or smoking couldve secured a higher annuity than he did with Prudential.
Im aware that as part of this methodology, the FCA has an interest rate built into the calculator for 
past loss. In the circumstances of this case  where Mr P (if there is a loss found) has been 
deprived of money he otherwise shouldve received and couldve enjoyed  Prudential should 
substitute the in-built interest rate with an award of 8% simple interest per year. This will reflect the 
cost to Mr P of being deprived of this money.
In response to the provisional decision Prudential said, in summary:
The FSA agreed their retirement packs were compliant with their requirements
Its retirement pack made clear the option of the Open Market Option (OMO) and 
that Mr P should seek independent financial advice. 
Its retirement pack clearly suggested Mr P should shop around and could get a 
better rate elsewhere.
It re-iterated that its retirement pack mentioned Enhanced Annuities and lifestyle 
factors
These were separate and the lifestyle factors didnt mention serious ill-health but 
Mr P chose not to tell it of any health factors
Two of the serious ill-health conditions mentioned in the Key Features Document 
(KFD) were diabetes and kidney disease  both of which were health conditions 
listed by Mr P as part of its review. It cannot therefore agree Mr P wouldnt have 
thought these applied to him
It is surprised that I made the assumption that Mr P wouldve been misled by the 
Key Features document as hed argued he didnt receive it.
Mr P in response to the provisional decision added him and his wife had found the 
process very stressful and a compensatory element should be added to any award.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision.
Ive thought about what Prudential has said but for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision, I think in these circumstances, the way its information was presented likely misled 
Mr P.
Prudential has argued that the FSA deemed their retirement pack compliant but what I have 
to decide is whether Mr P has been treated fairly in the circumstances of this complaint. And 
more specifically was Mr P given clear and not misleading information that he could get an 
enhanced annuity elsewhere. I dont think he was. 
Part of the reason for the review was the regulator was concerned that individuals werent 
being told they could get enhanced annuities elsewhere. Prudential believes the information 
presented about the OMO was enough to achieve this. But I disagree. As Ive already 
explained, I think Mr P wouldve likely thought he wouldnt be eligible for an enhanced 
annuity as Prudential set out in its documentation that this required a serious illness and a 
fund larger than what he had. Whilst this was specific to Prudential, there was nothing to 
suggest he would be eligible elsewhere. 
Prudential has pointed out, that on its questionnaire Mr P listed medical conditions that were 
referred to in its KFD. And so it said it doesnt agree Mr P wouldnt have thought these 
applied to him. The medical conditions referred to in the KFD were on a page that readers 
were directed to if they had serious illness. And within that page again the qualification was 
made of serious illness.
As Ive said, I dont think its likely based on the evidence Ive seen that Mr P wouldve 
viewed himself as having a serious illness at the time. Mr and Mrs P said in their response to 
Prudential after it presented the KFD as evidence it had told Mr P about his options, said that 
Mr P didnt have a serious illness, just an everyday illness (hypertension). And I think the 
supporting evidence corroborates this as their likely thought process at the time. 
That said, the KFD did refer to disease of the kidney in its examples of serious illness. It was 
explained that the illness needed to be one that could shorten your life expectancy. It 
appears Mr P did have kidney issues around the time of taking out the annuity. However, its 
not clear how serious Mr Ps kidney issues were at the time.
Hed been referred to, and seen, a specialist and it was recorded there was hypertension 
with end organ damage. And Mr P said in his questionnaire as part of Prudentials review 
that he had been diagnosed at the time with CKD, or Chronic Kidney Disease. But it appears 
this condition can have a wide range of seriousness and is often mild and many people live 
long lives with it. And from the evidence I have from the time, I dont think its likely Mr P 
wouldve thought of this as a serious illness. I say this because the notes from the 2008 
appointment with the specialist only refer to him losing weight and reducing his blood 
pressure  there is no mention of any serious consequences or complications with his 
kidneys.
In any event, I think someone of Mr Ps circumstances wouldnt have spent too long thinking 
about the opportunity of an enhanced annuity based on the information presented to him by 
Prudential. Prudentials KFD set out conditions that meant he wasnt eligible for one  even 
before the mention of example conditions. The first requirement was a fund size larger than 
Mr P had.Prudential also said that the KFD listed diabetes and Mr P included that condition in the 
review form he completed. But Mr P stated he is unsure of when he was diagnosed with 
diabetes and it isnt mentioned on the clinicians notes from 2008  so it appears this 
diagnosis came after taking out the annuity.
Mr P had disputed whether hed received the KFD. He hasnt categorically said he didnt, but 
he doesnt remember it. But this isnt surprising given the time that has passed, and I have to 
make a decision on the balance of probabilities. As Prudentials pack refers a number of 
times to the KFD  and this was a standard part of its retirement pack  I think Mr P more 
than likely received it. And had he done so, I dont think the information within the pack and 
the KFD was sufficient to let him know he could qualify for an enhanced annuity with another 
provider. Had he known he could get an enhanced annuity elsewhere based on his health 
and lifestyle factors I think he wouldve looked into this.
Finally, Mr and Mrs P have said that they believe there should be a compensatory element 
added to my award to recognise the distress and inconvenience of going through this 
process. And the potential pension lost out on. I appreciate raising this complaint has been 
time consuming, I can see that a lot of time and effort has been spent. But there will always 
be a level of inconvenience and stress in bringing any complaint, so I dont think an award 
should be made on that basis. Furthermore, it wasnt until Prudential contacted Mr P about 
the review that he was aware that there may have been an issue with his sale, so prior to 
this there wouldnt have been any knowledge that something might be wrong. 
Whilst I think Prudential couldve given Mr P clearer information and having done so he 
wouldve looked into alternatives elsewhere, this doesnt necessarily mean Mr P has 
suffered a financial loss. Its possible Prudentials annuity rate might have exceeded what Mr 
P couldve got elsewhere. So I dont think there are sufficient grounds to make an award for 
trouble and upset in relation to Prudentials error.
Putting things right
Prudential should review the annuity sale based on what we now know about Mr Ps 
health and lifestyle at the time. I think had Mr P known he could potentially receive a 
higher annuity  he wouldve explored this option.
I think the fairest and most practical way to consider whether Mr P has suffered a loss, is 
to use the redress methodology from the FCAs thematic review process. This will show 
whether Mr Ps medical conditions and/or smoking couldve secured a higher annuity 
than he did with Prudential.
Im aware that as part of this methodology, the FCA has an interest rate built into the 
calculator for past loss. In the circumstances of this case  where Mr P (if there is a loss 
found) has been deprived of money he otherwise shouldve received and couldve 
enjoyed  Prudential should substitute the in-built interest rate with an award of 8% simple 
interest per year. This will reflect the cost to Mr P of being deprived of this money.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint against The Prudential Assurance Company Limited and direct it 
to put matters right as explained above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman