DRN-2973663
The complaint
Mr P says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr P took out two instalment loans from ELL. A summary of his borrowing follows.
loan takenvalue, 
£term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 21/11/2011 1,500 24 152.84 3,668.16
2 29/02/2016 2,500 24 245.08 5,881.92
Mr P says ELL did not carry out sufficient affordability checks to assess whether he could 
afford the loans.
Our investigator found that ELL had done nothing wrong when it lent to Mr P. She said the 
lenders checks were proportionate and whilst there was evidence Mr P was using payday 
loans ELLs loans were to break this cycle. 
Mr P disagreed. In summary, he said it was clear from his credit report he would be unable 
to consolidate all his debt and break his cycle of high-cost borrowing. He was facing financial 
difficulties and his income was insufficient to meet his expenses. He borrowed over £34,000 
between loan 1 and 2 so was clearly not in a stable financial position. And as ELL had 
access to his credit report and could see this it should have declined his applications. 
He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so the case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr P required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability
check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr P. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr P. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ps
loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did ELL make fair lending decisions?
- did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr P before it approved the loans. It asked 
for details of his income and checked this on copies of his bank statements. It estimated
his living costs using national statistics. It asked about his residential status  he was living 
with his parents in both years. It checked Mr Ps credit file to understand his existing monthly 
credit commitments (and checked his bank statements for any additional commitments) and 
credit history. And finally it asked about the purpose of the loans, the first was for driving 
lessons and to settle some payday lending, the second was all for debt consolidation. From 
these checks combined ELL concluded Mr P had enough monthly disposable income to take 
on the loans.
I think ELLs checks were proportionate given the term and value of the loans and I think it 
made fair lending decisions based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why. 
Loan 1
ELL could see from Mr Ps bank statements that his income was £1591.70. It used his 
declared cost of housing, a national average for his living expenses and took the cost of his 
existing credit commitments from the credit check it completed. From this it calculated he 
had disposable income of £570.06 and so could afford to take on the £152.84 loan 
repayment. As ELL had copies of Mr Ps recent bank statements it may have been more 
prudent to use Mr Ps actual living costs, but I cant see this would have changed its lending 
decision as the statements show Mr P had very few monthly fixed costs and so using the 
national average over-estimated his living costs. As he lived with his parents I find this to be  
plausible. The lenders credit check showed Mr P had very little debt  just £485 on one mail 
order account, but it could see from his bank statements he was repaying two payday loans 
and had taken out a third recently. However I dont think this was a reason not to lend to Mr P as he had disclosed that this loan was in part to repay payday loans. 
Overall, I dont think there were indications in the checks that the loan might not be 
sustainably affordable for Mr P.
It follows I dont think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr P.
Loan 2
Mr P returned to ELL several years later. Mr P says he had borrowed over £34,000 since 
loan 1 and as ELL had access to his credit report it should have declined his application. But 
I have reviewed the results of the credit check the lender carried out. These show Mr P had 
borrowed around £8,000 since loan 1. All accounts had been settled except one that 
defaulted in January 2014. At the time of this application the credit check showed Mr P owed 
£209 current debt, plus the balance on the defaulted account which was around £1,467. So 
whilst there was one adverse entry I dont find this alone was a reason for ELL to decide not 
to lend to Mr P. The report did not show him to be heavily indebted.
ELL did know from Mr Ps application he had payday loans that were not showing on the 
credit check, but that was why Mr P was taking out this loan. And, as it could see from the 
credit check he had been using payday loans each month for at least the last six months, I 
think it was reasonable for ELL to accept Mr Ps testimony that this loan was to repay his 
payday loans and break his reliance on them. ELLs Go Live Audit document shows Mr P 
was settling six payday loans and would only be left with the defaulted debt that he was 
reducing each month. So given the cost of payday lending and the fact Mr P seemed to be 
trapped in a cycle of borrowing one payday loan to repay another, I dont think it was 
financially harmful for ELL to give this lower-cost loan to allow Mr P to clear them all. 
The lender had verified that Mr Ps monthly salary was £1,769.31 and it used the same 
approach as at the time of loan 1 to calculate Mr P would have disposable income of 
£395.96 if he took out this loan to repay his outstanding payday loans. Again I have 
reviewed Mr Ps bank statements as ELL had this information. It is hard to fully understand 
Mr Ps financial situation as he used cash frequently and made regular transfers to and from 
a second account, but again he had low fixed living costs. I can only see direct debits for a 
phone and streaming service and some grocery costs. He was still living with his parents 
though so this is plausible. And, besides, ELL relied on a higher figure as it used a national 
average.  So again I think ELLs lending decision was reasonable and I dont think there 
were sufficient signs to concern ELL that the loan might not be sustainably affordable for 
Mr P. 
I dont doubt his testimony that he was struggling financially. But I think the lender completed 
proportionate checks given the term and value of the loan, and I can only fairly expect it to 
respond to the information it gathered. I would explain here that often an applicant sees 
different information in their full credit report compared to the results of a lenders check. 
This can be for a number of reasons  there can be timing differences and also not all 
lenders report to all of the credit reference agencies. 
It follows I dont think ELL was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr P.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman