DRN-1222453
The complaint
Mrs T and her representative are unhappy about the way Virgin Money plc dealt with the 
interest on her matured cash ISA.
What happened
Mrs T had a two year fixed rate cash ISA with Virgin Money which matured at the end of 
March 2019. They say that at the end of the first year the accrued interest was paid into a 
bank account shed nominated. But at the end of the second year on maturity when she 
arranged to transfer the money to another provider, Virgin Money added the accrued interest 
to the ISA account and transferred everything in it to the other provider. Mrs T is unhappy 
about this and that the accrued interest wasnt paid on maturity into her nominated bank 
account in accordance with her instructions. She says she has lost the opportunity to invest 
the interest elsewhere.
Virgin Money said in its final response that the new provider requested the full balance and 
both the closing interest and remaining funds were all transferred over to the new provider. 
Its website contained information about what would happen to interest and what Mrs T would 
need to do if she wanted to retain the accrued interest on maturity.
Our investigator felt this complaint should be upheld. She said Virgin Money hadnt acted 
fairly. It had gone against Mrs Ts instruction to credit interest to her nominated account. It 
didnt make clear that maturity interest wouldnt be applied to her nominated account in line 
with her previous instruction. She noted Mrs T hadnt lost any money and thought Virgin 
Money should pay her £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs Ts representative says whilst the money is now with another provider and hasnt been 
lost, he feels £100 compensation isnt enough. Virgin Money hasnt carried out the correct 
accounting function or communicated effectively throughout.
Virgin Money doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money says when Mrs Ts ISA product matured all accumulated interest was 
automatically added to her ISA account. And unlike annual interest it wouldnt be paid into 
the nominated external bank account. It says its website clearly sets that out and there was 
a link to this on the maturity mailing it sent her. When explaining things Virgin Money has 
also referred to the difference in the way it treats annual and maturity interest. 
But taking everything into account Im not persuaded Virgin Money made all this sufficiently 
clear to Mrs T from the outset.
When Mrs T took out the Virgin Money ISA product she was sent some Key Facts 
information. That said, amongst other things, that if she wanted to transfer money shed subscribed to the ISA in the current tax year she would have to transfer all of it. But it didnt 
explain what would happen when the ISA product matured or highlight the different way it 
treated annual and maturity interest. When she opened the account Mrs T gave instructions 
for interest to be paid into a nominated account with another bank. Virgin Money did this in 
August 2018. So, I can understand why Mrs T wouldve reasonably thought this would also 
happen when the account matured in 2019.
I accept Virgin Money sent a maturity mailing to Mrs T which had a link to its website which 
contained instructions about how to withdraw the interest on maturity. But even here the 
difference in how the maturity interest would be treated and recognition that any previous 
instruction for the paying of annual interest into an external bank account wouldnt be applied 
to the maturity interest wasnt prominently brought to Mrs Ts attention.
Even so the fact remains that Mrs T didnt lose any money as the entire balance in her ISA, 
including the accumulated interest, was transferred to her new provider. In addition although 
I understand Mrs T was deprived of the use of the interest to finance a family holiday and 
had to find the money elsewhere, Ive seen nothing to suggest she incurred any extra 
finance expense in doing so.
Overall I think Virgin Money couldve explained things better both at the outset and 
subsequently when the ISA matured. In addition its explanations for what happened have 
also been confused and unclear at times. 
Putting things right
I think on balance that Virgin Money couldve dealt with Mrs T better and this has 
understandably caused her some distress and inconvenience which warrants a payment of 
some compensation. Taking everything into account, including the level of awards we make, 
I agree with the investigator that a payment of £100 is fair and reasonable for this. And I 
dont see any compelling reason to increase this amount as Mrs Ts representative would 
like. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right Virgin Money plc should pay Mrs T £100 
compensation.
Virgin Money must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs T 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Virgin Money to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman