DRN-3214208
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a home insurance policy by British Gas Services 
Limited.
What happened
Mr M bought a HomeCare 2 policy with British Gas Services (BG) in July 2018. This covers 
problems with his boiler, boiler controls and central heating system. Mr M tells us bought this 
policy because he was keen to ensure a hot water supply for his home given that he has 
children.
He made a claim in September 2019 because he was having issues with his water tank. He 
says there were problems with the ballcock, which was causing the tank to overflow through 
the overflow pipe.
BGs engineer told Mr M the issue wasnt covered by his policy. BG offered to carry out 
repairs if Mr M upgraded his policy  to HomeCare 3 or 4  both of which cover plumbing 
and drains in addition to boilers and central heating.
Mr M wasnt happy about this and made a complaint to BG. He said hed been sold the 
policy as covering his heating system. And he said that the water tank served no other 
purpose than to feed water into his boiler and central heating system and so should be 
considered part of the heating system.
BG didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said the water tank was part of the plumbing at 
Mr Ms property and wasnt covered by the policy. And they said this was clear in the terms 
and conditions booklet which theyd sent to Mr M when he purchased the policy and at 
renewal.
Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He maintains that the 
water tank can only properly be considered to be a part of the heating system. And he told 
us hed never seen the policy booklet. He wants BG to refund his premiums back to 
inception in July 2018 given that the policy was mis-sold to him and he hasnt benefitted from 
it.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think BG had done anything wrong. She thought the 
terms of the policy would have been clear to Mr M  through the policy documentation and/or 
BGs website. And she thought it was clear that the overflow from the water tank would not 
be covered.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be very clear at the outset that Mr Ms complaint to BG  and then to us  is that the 
policy was mis-sold to him. Its not about BGs decision to decline the claim he made in 
September 2019. Hes saying, in essence, that if the policy doesnt cover that issue, then it 
was mis-sold to him because it was sold as providing cover for any problems with his 
heating system.
Thats the complaint Im looking at here  the alleged mis-sale. I will offer some comment on 
the September 2019 claim itself later, but I have to be clear that isnt part of this, my current 
decision. It cant be, because Mr M hasnt complained about that to BG or to us  and the 
rules which govern our service dictate that BG should have a chance to resolve a complaint 
before the matter can be brought to us.
When Mr M brought his complaint to us, he sent us various screenshots from BGs on-line 
website. His purpose in doing so was, I think, to demonstrate that the HomeCare 2 policy 
was sold as covering a propertys heating system.
Our assumption, on that basis, was that Mr M had bought his policy on-line. And our 
investigator said that the policy terms and conditions were also available on-line. And would 
have been sent to Mr M in any case. And she thought the terms were clear about what was 
and was not covered.
After hed heard our investigators view, Mr M told us he now recalled buying the policy over 
the phone after a cold call from a BG agent or someone acting on BGs behalf. He said he 
couldnt remember the date or time  or which number he was called on  but that he was 
advised during the call that the policy would cover the whole of his heating system.
BG cant find any record of any such call in their systems. And theyve sent us a copy of their 
system notes which record the policy as being bought on-line by Mr M as part of a home 
move.
Taking all of that into account, Im satisfied that on balance its more likely Mr M bought the 
policy on-line. All of the available evidence points that way. And there is no evidence of the 
supposed phone call. 
It is of course possible that Mr M received a call and bought the policy on the callers advice, 
but on balance its unlikely given the degree of planning and coordination BG would have 
had to deploy to create a false record of the sale.
In any case, however the policy as bought, Im also satisfied that its very likely BG sent the 
policy documents to Mr M at the point of sale and at renewal. There would be no reason for 
them not to do so. 
Mr M says hes never seen the policy documents  either on-line or having been sent them. 
Its slightly surprising to me that hed buy a policy without knowing  or wanting to know - 
what exactly he was getting for his money. And I would imagine most customers who didnt 
receive terms and conditions immediately after purchase might follow that up and make 
enquiries.
If I take Mr Ms assertions at face value though, I have to stress that my decision is about 
whether BG acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M. It is possible Mr M didnt receive the 
policy documentation, but its extraordinarily unlikely that BG didnt send it. And I cant hold 
BG responsible if they sent the relevant communications, but Mr M didnt get them due to 
some fault in the mail or delivery systems.The policy documents are reasonably clear. They cover all of BGs HomeCare policy range, 
but they set out what each policy covers reasonably straightforwardly. Its entirely clear that 
HomeCare 2 covers boilers and central heating, but not drains and plumbing (which are 
covered by the slightly more expensive policies).
Theres a very helpful diagram of a house and its various constituent parts included in the 
policy document. And the clear colour coding sets out what elements are considered boiler 
and controls (colour coded orange), or central heating (green) or plumbing (purple).
So, I dont think it could usually be suggested that anyone who had access to the policy 
documents was mis-sold any of the HomeCare policies on the basis that it wasnt reasonably 
clear which policies covered which elements of the home. And, as I say, I think BG very 
likely took all reasonable steps to ensure Mr M had access to the policy documents.
I should be very clear too that I dont agree with Mr Ms assertion that he should get all his 
premiums back because he hasnt benefitted from the policy at all. I can see from BGs work 
records that Mr M had had two annual services by May 2021. Mr M has also confirmed this.
And I can also see that hes called out BG to deal with different issues with his heating 
systems on at least five or six other occasions. On most of those occasions, it appears BG 
did carry out work on Mr Ms behalf. The records dont show whether Mr M had to make any 
contribution to pay for the work or pay a call out fee. But clearly, BG visited the property on 
several occasions to fulfil their obligations under the policy. 
So, in summary, Im not going to uphold Mr Ms complaint that he was mis-sold the policy. 
Im satisfied its very likely BG did all they could reasonably do to make Mr M aware of the 
terms of the policy. And Mr M has clearly benefitted from having the policy.
I said at the outset that Id come back to BGs decision to decline the claim itself. I should 
emphasise  again  that this is not something I can formally address as part of my decision, 
but it would be entirely unfair not to mention my thoughts on it so that Mr M is clear about 
where he stands.
In his complaint to us, Mr M refers to the water tank in question as an expansion and feeder 
tank. In a vented central heating system, the expansion tank is where water goes when it 
expands  when its heated  and so more than fills the capacity of the boiler, pipes and 
radiators in a typical central heating system.
In their final response to Mr Ms complaint, BG refer to the tank as a cold water tank. This 
would typically be a tank which holds water from an outside source, fed by cold water pipes, 
and then feeds it into the boiler or cylinder.
A cold water tank might properly be seen as part of the plumbing of the house  even if it 
only feeds the heating system. Its essentially no more than a part of the pipework / plumbing 
which brings water into the house. Hence BGs assertion that Mr Ms tank is part of the 
drains and plumbing rather than part of the heating system.
An expansion tank is a different thing. And its arguable that it is in fact a part of the heating 
system. I can see that the diagram in BGs policy document acknowledges this. The 
expansion tank in that diagram is split colour coded  both green and purple (central heating 
and plumbing).
Importantly, in BGs work / contact notes, which record interactions with the customer, BGs 
engineers report refers to Mr Ms tank as the f and e water tank. In the context, I think f 
and e must stand for feeder and expansion.So, I can only assume Mr Ms problem tank (he has two tanks apparently) is an expansion 
tank and not a simple cold water supply tank. We have asked for further evidence or 
information from both BG and Mr M to confirm or deny my suspicion, but it seems none is 
available, so I will have to go with the information on BGs system, supplied by their own 
engineer.
I believe Mr M has now had the problem with the ballcock fixed. If he paid for that work to be 
done  and he can evidence that for BG  I would expect that BG will consider covering 
Mr Ms costs as the proper response to his original claim (given that their policy documents 
suggest an expansion tank may be part of the central heating system). Though they may 
wish to make further enquiries and/or inspect the tank before they do so.
As I say, this is not part of my formal final decision on this case. If Mr M submits evidence of 
the relevant payment to BG and they decide not to pay the claim, he would be entitled to 
make a complaint to them  and then to us, if hes not satisfied with the outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman