DRN-2838811
The complaint
Mr D complains to IG Index Limited about his spread betting account  he doesnt think he 
should have been allowed to continue trading and is concerned about errors that could have 
exacerbated his significant losses. 
What happened
Mr D opened a spread betting account with IG in 2008. In June 2020, he suffered a 36 point 
slippage on a trade. When he contacted IG about it, they gave him a 28 point rebate. But 
despite this, Mr D says what happened had led him to lose trust in IG  he went on to lose 
£110,000 that week. 
Mr D decided to make a complaint to IG  he said the firm should have questioned his 
behaviour and account activity, and should have offered him support as he felt his trading 
was erratic, that he probably lost more money than most people and because he had a habit 
of making withdrawal requests, only to then cancel them. He felt IG had failed to protect him 
as a retail client and had profited from his losses. Over the years, he said hed lost more 
than £1 million, so he thought someone ought to have had a conversation with him about his 
best interests. He also felt IG were wrong to have reactivated his account in 2015 without 
reconsidering his appropriateness for this sort of trading. As he was in financial hardship, he 
asked for compensation and for his account to be restricted. 
Mr D later added three more points to his complaint  he asked why IG advertised trading to 
be tax free despite most people losing money, whether IG profited from him losing money 
and whether his account was treated differently given how much hed lost. 
IG looked into his concerns and sent a final response letter in July 2020. They confirmed 
hed received the retail client protection hed referred to, but didnt agree his trading history 
meant he ought to have been prevented from trading. Though they noted Mr D had lost a lot 
of money, they had asked him about his finances from time to time and based on that theyd 
considered the losses to be affordable. They acknowledged Mr D had asked to suspend his 
account in 2015, but noted hed then changed his mind  they said hed been reminded 
about the risks before he was allowed to start trading again. 
IG also answered Mr Ds three questions  they confirmed that spread betting was generally 
tax free, that they didnt trade against clients but only balanced positions and hedged 
themselves where necessary, and that his account hadnt been treated any differently.
Mr D says his slippage concerns were resolved but as he remained unhappy with IG he 
asked for our help. When making his complaint to us, he said his activity on the account 
ought to have raised concerns about appropriateness  in his own words, he felt hed 
demonstrated recklessness and incompetence  and as hed placed so many trades over 
the years, any other wrongdoing that might have happened on IGs part had the scope to 
have had significant financial consequences. 
Mr D also recalled trying to close the account in 2015, so he thought IG had fallen short of 
whats expected of them then too. Mr D cited some court cases he felt were relevant and told 
us hes taken loans against his business and home, but is now having trouble repaying 
these. 
Mr D wanted our confirmation that the tens of thousands of trades hed placed over the 
years were settled in a fair way. He also wanted to know if IG knew he had issues and 
asked if they ought to have intervened. To resolve things, Mr D asked for his financial 
situation to be restored, or failing that, for a gesture payment given he felt IG had profited 
from him over the years. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. But from what shed seen, she 
didnt agree IG had done anything wrong. She didnt think IG were wrong to allow Mr D to 
have opened the account in 2008, nor to have allowed Mr D to reactivate his account in 
2015. She couldnt see IG had been made aware of the difficulties Mr D had shared with us 
and given his account was execution only, IG wouldnt have been monitoring it. She 
explained how IG can make money out of spreads, so it wouldnt have mattered to them as 
to whether Mr D made money or lost money. And she explained that Mr D hadnt shared 
examples of trades where things had gone wrong, but if he had these he could raise them 
with IG. 
Mr D didnt agree. He felt that the regulator ought to protect consumers and enhance the 
integrity of the UK financial system. He was concerned about the investigatory work too but 
as our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind and an agreement wasnt reached, 
the case was referred for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its very clear to me just how distressed Mr D is about whats happened. Hes shared some 
very sensitive, personal information with us and I recognise it will have been tough for Mr D 
to confront the situation he is in. But I am grateful for what hes told us and I must assure him 
I have taken it into account as far as I can. 
The crux of Mr Ds complaint is that he feels IG could, or should, have done more to protect 
him as hes lost a lot of money trading over the years. Hes also asked us to consider 
whether IG have been fair in their dealings with him, as if they havent, it could have led to 
him losing money  rather like last years slippage that prompted this complaint. Mr D also 
has a number of more specific related points which Ive considered. 
But before I get on to those, I do feel there are elements of Mr Ds complaint that are rather 
broad. He believes that IG may have done something wrong with any number of the trades 
hes placed over the last decade. Hes concerned that perhaps prices havent been right, or 
perhaps that there might have been other examples of slippage like what he felt last year. 
But hes not pointed to any examples for us to review. 
While I appreciate that any other instances of slippage or price manipulation might have 
contributed to his losses, our role here  as an informal service  isnt to carry out a forensic 
investigation of each and every trade Mr D has placed just in case an error may be 
discovered. Having considered Mr Ds trading history, hes placed almost 11,000 trades and 
it wouldnt be appropriate for us to review each one, nor would there be the underling pricing 
data to do this, given the time thats passed.The initial account opening
Given everything Mr D has told us, Ive thought about the wider circumstances and how he 
began his relationship with IG. As IG are a regulated firm theyre subject to the rules set out 
in the regulators handbook  the conduct of business (COBS) section is whats relevant 
here. 
IG werent required to assess the suitability of Mr Ds upcoming trading given they werent 
going to be giving him any advice  his account was opened on an execution only basis so it 
was for him to decide which trades to make. 
However, to trade as he did COBS 10 required IG to assess Mr Ds appropriateness for 
doing so. In other words, this required them to gather relevant information from Mr D in order 
to decide whether he had the necessary knowledge and experience to understand the risks 
involved. An excerpt of the relevant rules in force at the time is as follows:
COBS 10.2.1
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client 
to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment 
field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to 
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for 
the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm:
(a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge 
in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered 
or demanded;

COBS 10.2.2
The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment field 
includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and extent of 
the service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including 
their complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client 
is familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated 
investments and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client.
Ive reviewed the account opening questions and the answers Mr D gave  given what he 
told them, IG determined that the account to be appropriate. When asked about his trading 
experience within the last three years, Mr D told them hed traded shares and bonds 
frequently, exchange traded derivatives rarely or never and over the counter derivatives 
sometimes. He also said hed traded independently or with advice. And he said he had an 
investment portfolio worth more than €500,000. 
Although Mr D didnt declare any relevant employment or qualifications, as hed told IG hed 
had some experience with the sorts of products they offered, I see why they considered him 
an appropriate candidate for their account and why a specific warning in line with COBS 10.3 
wasnt required. 
Mr D has told us that some of the information hes shared with IG over the years hasnt been 
accurate  for example, that portfolio wasnt worth as much as hed said, that he hadnt 
traded derivatives before despite saying he had and that his income wasnt as much as hed 
said. But even if this is the case, COBS 10.2.4 said [a] firm is entitled to rely on the 
information provided by a client unless it is aware that the information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or incomplete. So even though Mr D now says he didnt have the required 
knowledge or experience with this sort of trading, he indicated to IG that he did, and they 
were entitled to rely on what hed told them. So from everything Ive seen, I dont think there 
were shortcomings in IGs appropriateness assessment and instead feel that it was 
reasonable for Mr Ds account to have been opened. 
The suspension and reactivation in 2015 
A few years after Mr Ds account was opened, he asked for it to be closed. Ive listened to 
the call Mr D made to IG in March 2015  he asked how to close his account and that the 
situation was really, really bad. The member of staff understood and said Mr D could close 
the account or suspend it. Mr D chose to suspend the account. The call was only short, just 
under a minute and a half, and it was clear Mr D has been losing money and wanted to take 
a break. 
IG followed up with another call to Mr D  they explained the reason for calling was because 
of their duty of care and they offered Mr D the chance to self-exclude himself from future 
trading either indefinitely, or for a minimum of six months. Mr D agreed to not trading for six 
months. Mr D asked whether anything could be done given hed been a customer for a 
number of years but had lost a lot of money, so IG re-iterated the option to self-exclude for 
more than six months, but Mr D didnt opt to do this. 
Four working days later Mr D emailed IG  he said hed had time to reflect and wanted the 
account to be reopened. He asked if it could be un-suspended and said he was glad he 
didnt close it. IG called Mr D about this and he referred to the suspension having been a 
knee-jerk reaction. Before reopening the account IG explained some of the margin related 
risks which Mr D acknowledged.
Its clear from the first call that Mr D had lost money and wanted to stop trading. But its also 
clear he changed his mind about this shortly afterwards. I dont think it was wrong for IG to 
have allowed him to trade again  I cant see Mr D made IG aware of the severity or extent 
of his circumstances, so they werent to know that they ought to be protecting or supporting 
him in the way he alleges now. 
Mr D made an informed decision about continuing to trade despite having lost a lot of 
money. He also had a number of years trading experience, so he knew what to expect and 
how it worked. So from what I have seen, Im not concerned that IGs actions in allowing the 
reactivation of the account were unreasonable. 
Awareness of Mr Ds personal circumstances
As I mentioned before, Mr D has made us aware of some very serious personal 
circumstances. Hes told us hes spent everything hes earned and saved, sold assets, re-
mortgaged his home, re-mortgaged his wifes assets and taken out loans against his 
business which has suffered as a result of the pandemic. He also says he considers himself 
to be addicted to gambling. I am very sorry to hear about what Mr D is going through. It must 
be a very worrying time for him and his young family.  
Mr D has suggested IG ought to have known about this, and ought to have intervened in 
some way  perhaps then hed have lost less money. But IG couldnt have helped if they 
didnt know what was happening. So long as Mr D continued to add money to his account 
and continue trading, it wouldnt be for IG to have suspicions or concerns about his wider 
personal and financial circumstances. I also wouldnt expect IG to know Mr D was addicted 
to trading without him making them aware. Quite often, this sort of trading is high frequency and high volume, so I dont think IG would necessarily have been concerned by the number 
or continuation of Mr Ds trades either.
Mr D told us that the income and savings information he shared with IG wasnt accurate. And 
hes said he used loans to fund his deposits. But again, it wouldnt be fair for me to say IG 
ought to have known that, they were entitled to rely on the information Mr D provided and 
werent given a reason to question it.
Mr D says his behaviour around requesting withdrawals and then cancelling them ought to 
have concerned IG too. But I dont agree. As I said before, how Mr D chose to run his 
account was up to him. I wouldnt expect IG to interfere in what may have just been a clients 
indecisiveness.
Had Mr D have got in touch with IG to ask for help or to make them aware of his financial 
situation, Id have expected them take some sort of action or do something to help him like 
restrict him from trading. But I cant see he did, so I cant fairly say they should have 
intervened when they didnt know an intervention might have been required. 
IG treating Mr Ds account differently or making money from his misfortune 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that IG identified Mr D as someone who lost money and 
decided to treat him differently because of this. As noted on IGs website, this sort of trading 
is high risk and it will be common for IG to have clients who lose money. So I dont think that 
in itself would have been something to have drawn their attention. 
I also dont think how IG make their money affects the outcome of Mr Ds complaint. Firms 
like IG make their money in a variety of different ways, but often that can be by putting a 
spread across a market price which includes a fee. IG may well have traded against Mr D or 
other clients with similar positions from time to time, but that wont have affected him  that 
will have just mitigated IGs exposure in the market. Importantly, I havent seen anything to 
show any wrongdoing on IGs part here.
Misleading marketing and retail categorisation 
Mr D says IGs marketing shouldnt mention the fact that this sort of trading is tax-free given 
that most people lose money  and there arent any tax advantages from losing money. 
While I see what Mr D means in terms of loss making positions, I dont agree IGs mention of 
tax-free trading was misleading  generally speaking, for UK residents spread bets dont 
attract stamp duty or capital gains tax on profits. 
Mr D has made a numerous of comments about his categorisation as a retail investor and 
the protections afforded as a result of this. But this doesnt change my decision here  from 
everything Ive seen IG did indeed treat Mr D as a retail customer but it doesnt follow that he 
should be compensated for his losses or that IG ought to have intervened without knowing 
to.
In summary 
I do sympathise with Mr Ds situation as I can see hes lost a lot of money. But from 
everything Ive seen and for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant say IG have done 
anything wrong. Though Mr D says he didnt have the knowledge and experience to have 
traded, and that he wasnt as wealthy as hed said, IG were entitled to rely on what he told 
them. Without knowing Mr D was struggling or addicted to trading, I cant say its fair for us to 
find IG at fault. Ultimately while this sort of trading can be high risk, this in itself cannot absolve Mr D of his 
own responsibility for his actions and decisions over the decade  he chose to trade in the 
way he did, as frequently as he did, for as long as he did and to fund the account as he did. 
So it follows that Mr Ds losses are not something for which IG ought fairly and reasonably to 
be held responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman