DRN-3421447
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) has lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr H opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in 2005. The credit limit on Mr Hs card 
was increased eight times between April 2007 and February 2017. The last of these 
increases took Mr Hs credit limit to £9,800.
In 2020, Mr H complained to Barclaycard about these credit limit increases. In summary, 
Mr H said:
- the credit card was mis-sold to him in 2005;
- Barclaycard increased his credit limit without him asking for, or agreeing to, the 
increases;
- he was in persistent debt for an extended period of time and so it was irresponsible 
for Barclaycard to have increased his credit limit; and
- due to a diagnosed mental health condition, Mr H was subject to periods of 
compulsive spending and the increases to his credit limit had encouraged that 
spending.
Barclaycard didnt accept it had treated Mr H unfairly, so he referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs concerns. He explained any complaint about the 
mis-sale of the credit card was not something we could look at, given the time that has 
passed since the card was sold to Mr H. He also noted most of the increases in Mr Hs credit 
limit took place more than six years ago, but he was satisfied we were nonetheless able to 
consider these credit limit increases as Mr H had not become aware he had cause to 
complain until more recently. 
And ultimately, having considered all the evidence, the investigator didnt think Barclaycard 
had treated Mr H unfairly. But Mr H disagreed, and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision will not be looking at whether Mr Hs credit card was mis-sold, as we have 
already explained why that is not something we can consider. Instead it will focus on the 
credit limit increases that then took place and Barclaycards actions regarding any signs of 
financial difficulties or persistent debt.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs account explain Barclaycard can increase his credit limit 
as long as Mr H has either requested the increase himself or Barclaycard has given 30 days 
notice of its intention to increase the credit limit. Ive seen evidence to show a letter was sent 
to Mr H in 2017, when the most recent limit increase took place, and I understand that letter 
would have clearly explained that Mr H could reject the limit increase if he didnt want it. 
Theres no evidence to show exactly what was sent to Mr H regarding the limit increases 
prior to 2017. This isnt unusual given the time that has passed. But Im satisfied on the 
balance of probabilities its most likely Barclaycard would also have sent the appropriate 
notice to Mr H for those increases. And given theres nothing to suggest Mr H told 
Barclaycard not to increase his limit on any of these occasions, Im satisfied Barclaycard 
acted within the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account when it increased his credit limit. 
But even with this in mind, Barclaycard wont have treated Mr H fairly if it increased his credit 
limit when it should have been aware that he might struggle to repay that additional 
borrowing or that it was otherwise unaffordable to him. Having thought carefully about whats 
happened here though, I dont think Barclaycard has treated Mr H unfairly.
Ive seen the checks Barclaycard carried out when it increased Mr Hs limit in 2017, and I 
think its most likely similar checks were carried out for the earlier limit increases too. Ive 
also seen Mr Hs credit card statements from 2013 onwards, and current account statements 
from 2014 onwards. Mr H has also given us copies of his credit file. Although I dont have 
evidence to show exactly what happened for many of the earlier limit increases, Im satisfied 
what I have seen suggests Barclaycard didnt do anything wrong in increasing Mr Hs limit 
when it did.
I say this because Im satisfied Barclaycard carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
to satisfy itself that any lending offered to Mr H was sustainable. Mr Hs statements and 
credit file dont show any clear signs he might be struggling financially or he wouldnt be able 
to continue to manage his credit card well. The credit card statements Ive seen show at the 
time of the 2013 and 2017 limit increases Mr H was making regular payments to his credit 
card above the minimum payment required, and his current account statements show he 
was maintaining the account in credit. His credit file also doesnt show anything I think would 
have given Barclaycard cause for concern. I appreciate Mr H says he went through periods 
where he was spending compulsively, but I cant see anything on his statements that would 
have suggested to Barclaycard his spending was a problem. In general on both his credit 
card and current account the spending is unremarkable  with transactions for restaurants, 
bars, shops and other day to day spending. So until it was told about Mr Hs mental health 
condition in 2020 I dont think there was anything to put Barclaycard on notice Mr H might 
need additional support.
I do note what Mr H has said about the persistent debt on his account, and lenders are 
required to take a series of escalating steps to help borrowers break the cycle of persistent 
debt and ensure those whom cant afford to repay more quickly are given help. So 
Barclaycard did have an obligation to step in when it started to see signs of persistent debt 
on Mr Hs account after September 2018  when these new regulations regarding persistent 
debt were introduced. But I can see that, in line with its obligations, Barclaycard sent Mr H 
the appropriate letters offering him advice and assistance with his persistent debt. And when 
it became clear that Mr H would not be able to repay the debt going forward  as a result of 
a change in his circumstances  Barclaycard took steps to stop interest and charges from 
being applied and ultimately to suspend the account to prevent the outstanding balance from 
increasing. With all this in mind, Im satisfied Barclaycard has taken the steps I would expect it to take in 
these circumstances and that it has treated Mr H fairly. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr H, but I hope he will understand the reasons for my decision and will at 
least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman