DRN-2911550
The complaint
Mrs M says Swinton Group Ltd gave her incorrect information about a legal expenses
insurance policy in 2014 and wrongly told her the following year a claim she wanted to make
under that policy wouldnt be covered.  
What happened
Swinton acted as an insurance broker and says it dealt with Mrs M on a non-advised basis.
Mrs M has bought her household insurance through Swinton over many years. She held its
separate Household Legal Protection (HLP) policy from 2010.
In August 2014 the policies renewed; her home contents policy schedule from the time
shows legal expenses insurance was included with that. Following that Swinton contacted
Mrs M as there was an issue with her address. During those calls Mrs M queried the cost of
her home contents policy and agreed to take out a cheaper policy with a different provider.
That policy didnt include legal expenses insurance but Mrs M continued with the HLP policy.
The adviser confirmed she still had legal cover so thats the same.
The following year Mrs M contacted Swinton as shed sold a horse and the buyer was taking
legal action against her for misrepresentation. Mrs M wanted to use her legal expenses
policy to defend that claim. Swinton said her HLP policy didnt cover the defence of claims
arising from the sale of private goods. Mrs M accepted this advice and instructed her own
solicitors.
Having later reviewed matters Mrs M complained to Swinton. She said the advice shed
been given in 2015 was wrong as she now believed her policy would cover the defence of
this claim. She also raised concerns about what she was told at and following the 2014
renewal. She said the policy she held as part of her home contents insurance would have
covered the defence of a claim.
I set out my initial thoughts on the complaint in a number of emails to Mrs M. I then set out a 
provisional decision to both parties. In summary I said:
Im satisfied Swinton didnt provide advice to Mrs M about these policies. That means it
didnt need to assess whether they were suitable for her. But it did need to ensure she was
provided with clear, fair and not misleading information so she could make an informed
choice about whether they were right for her.
As Ive already said, I dont think Swinton did give Mrs M clear information about the policies
when she discussed them with her in 2014. The adviser told her the legal cover under the
new policy was the same. But she should have made clear that was a reference to the
cover provided under the HLP policy not the legal expenses policy that was included as part
of Mrs Ms home contents insurance.
However, having established that a business got something wrong I do then need to
consider what the impact of that has been  and whether Mrs M would have acted differently
but for that failing. And the test we apply here is that used in the civil court; based on the
available evidence is the occurrence of an event more likely than not. I explained in my
emails to Mrs M why, while I accepted it was possible shed have acted differently, I didnt
think it was likely.
Ive thought about whether the further evidence shes provided makes a difference here. I do
accept Mrs M appears to have had legal expenses cover through her home contents
provider since 2010. So that wasnt simply something that was included at renewal. Its
disappointing Swinton provided inaccurate information to me about this. But that doesnt
change the fact that Mrs M had cover in place through the HLP policy for a number of years.
And she would have been aware from the documentation she was provided with what this
covered. She didnt raise any concerns about that.
I recognise that contact about the renewal of her policy in 2014 was initiated by Swinton but
Mrs M raised the issue of cost in response to that. So I think its reasonable to conclude this
was something that was important to her. And while I appreciate what Mrs M says about the
difference in cost of these policies, the new policy nevertheless offered a reasonably
significant annual saving.
To conclude shed have retained her existing cover Id need to be satisfied that shed have
paid more for an element of that cover she didnt have any specific reason to think shed
need. And while I accept Mrs M was interested in general terms in legal expenses insurance
the main reason she was taking out this policy was for the protection it offered her home
contents. So I dont see there are grounds on which I could reach that conclusion.
I think its most likely that even if shed been given clearer information (or had been directed
to look herself at the policy terms) shed still have gone ahead with the new policy and the
HLP cover offered by Swinton. As a result she wouldnt have had cover in place for the claim
that was subsequently made against her.
But I do think Swinton should have realised when selling Mrs M the HLP policy in the first
place that she already had legal expenses cover in place through her home contents
insurance. I accept it wasnt providing her with advice but given it arranged the home
contents policy I think it should have been aware of what it provided and taken that into
account prior to offering the HLP policy to Mrs M.
And the HLP policy says We will not pay any claim covered by any other policy of insurance
or by trade union membership or any claim that would have been covered by any other
policy of insurance or by trade union membership if this HLP did not exist. If Swinton had
made the position clear to Mrs M I dont see why shed have chosen to take out the HLP
policy given its unlikely she could have claimed on this while she also had insurance through
her home contents policy.
I dont think that makes a difference to the conclusion Ive already reached about what
happened in 2014; even if Mrs M didnt have the HLP policy in place at that time shed then
have needed to take it out to ensure she had legal expenses cover going forward. And for
the reasons Ive explained I think its most likely thats what shed have done. But I think
Swinton should refund her the cost of the HLP policy between 2010 and 2014 (the period
when she also had legal expenses cover through her home insurance). It will also need to
pay simple interest at 8% on those payments to reflect Mrs Ms loss of use of that money.Finally. Mrs M has questioned the wording of her HLP policy. However, I remain satisfied
that Swinton didnt give her incorrect advice about what this covered when she contacted it
in 2015. I agree the term pursue isnt defined in the document and I understand why she
had to take action when proceedings were taken against her. But theres no suggestion in
the terms that the policy covers the defence of a claim and I dont see how the wording to
pursue a civil claim could reasonably be said to cover a claim that had been made against
the policyholder.
Swinton will need to refund the payments Mrs M made for her HLP policy from 2010 until
she took out home contents insurance that didnt include legal expenses cover in November
2014. It will also need to pay interest at 8% simple on those amounts from the date of
payment until the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Swinton said it wasnt responsible for covering Mrs Ms legal costs and noted her policy 
would have provided cover for a number of legal issues. So it queried whether the cost of 
this should be refunded. 
Mrs M provided detailed comments. In summary she said:
She disputed that cost was a key driver in her decision making and said at renewal she 
initially accepted the higher quote that was offered her. And she hadnt previously sought 
cheaper quotes for her insurance;
During her subsequent call with the adviser the difference in cover wasnt drawn to her 
attention and that should mean Swinton were liable for what then happened. And she 
disputed that during the recording shed queried the cost of her home insurance and said 
her focus was on whether there was any significant difference in cover;
She had an interest in every aspect of the cover being provided including legal expenses 
and if the differences had been made clear to her shed have known the HLP policy was 
of no use and wouldnt have gone ahead; 
She said shed have retained her existing policy (and the legal expenses cover it 
provided) and only went ahead with the change following the reassurance that this cover 
was like for like
It was unfair to base a decision on a presumption as to what shed have done and in any 
case, on the balance of probabilities, she would have acted differently if given clearer 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M is of course right that at renewal she accepted the higher quote offered by Swinton. 
And I recognise the subsequent contact with Swinton was initiated by it (because of a query 
over her address). Ive already concluded in that call the adviser should have given her 
clearer information about the legal expenses cover provided alongside her existing policy.  But that doesnt in itself mean Swinton is liable for the legal costs she subsequently incurred. 
To conclude that Id need to be satisfied that, if given correct information, Mrs M would have 
had a policy in place that would have covered the claim she subsequently needed to make. 
So rather than taking out cover with the alternative provider (with the HLP policy covering 
her legal expenses) shed have retained her existing cover. 
Mrs M says she would have done. I accept thats possible but I dont think its likely. I do 
think cost was something that mattered to her. During the conversation with the adviser (and 
after the address issue had been resolved) it was Mrs M who raised the issue of cost, saying 
at renewal one of the quotes shed been sent was significantly cheaper than the other and 
querying the reasons for this. It was in response to that the adviser offered to look at matters 
again and see if she could find a cheaper quote. Mrs M agreed to that. 
I appreciate that was on the basis the cover would be the same and I accept Mrs M was 
interested in the different aspects of cover the policy provided including legal expenses. But 
the HLP policy did provide legal expenses cover. So, in general terms, it met her need for 
that. I appreciate the specific terms of this policy didnt cover the claim she subsequently 
wanted to make but that isnt something which could have influenced Mrs Ms decision 
making at the time she took it out (as it hadnt happened at that point). 
As I said in my provisional decision, to conclude Mrs M would have retained her existing 
cover Id need to be satisfied shed have paid a reasonably significant amount more to obtain 
an element of legal expenses cover she didnt, at that point, have any specific reason to 
think shed need. As Mrs M has said the test here is the balance of probabilities. For the 
reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision I dont think it likely she would 
have done that. So I agree Swinton doesnt need to cover the legal costs she subsequently 
incurred. 
But I do think Swinton should refund the cost of the HLP policy between 2010 and 2014. I 
appreciate this policy did provide cover for a number of legal issues but during this time 
Mrs M also had legal expenses cover in place through her home insurance. I think thats 
something Swinton should have explained to her and, if it had done, I think it unlikely shed 
have taken the HLP policy during that period. 
Putting things right
Swinton will need to refund the payments Mrs M made for her HLP policy from 2010 until
she took out home contents insurance that didnt include legal expenses cover in November
2014. It will also need to pay interest at 8% simple on those amounts from the date of
payment until the date of settlement.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Swinton Group Ltd will need to put things right 
by doing what Ive said in this decision.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman