DRN-4232776
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) was responsible for 
cancelling a direct debit payment instruction to his sons pension scheme.
What happened
In early November 2022 Mr G received a letter from the administrator of his sons pension 
scheme advising him that a direct debit instruction, whereby he paid monthly payments into 
the scheme, had been cancelled. The administrator had said it was not responsible for the  
cancellation.
NatWest said that the November payment was shown as unpaid, though this was not related 
to a cancellation on its part. It noted that a new direct debit instruction had been set up. It 
further said there was no evidence that the instruction had ever been cancelled through 
NatWest.
Mr G was unhappy and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. On 
review, our Investigator said that he hadnt seen anything to suggest NatWest had acted 
unfairly in the context of this complaint.
Mr G was not satisfied and said that if we looked at the overall picture we should be able to 
identify which business was responsible. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From NatWests point of view it's produced the list of payments made under the old direct 
debit instruction, the November payment showing as unpaid. It said this is not related to any 
cancellation. It has also showed us the audit record for Mr Gs account over the entire 
period, which again shows no evidence of any cancellation transaction taking place. 
Where a direct debit is cancelled this can be done by the paying bank or the customer or the 
receiver of the payment. And I do note that Mr G had around that time cancelled a direct 
debit payment related to another sons pension scheme. But though that might be the source 
of the error, I cant say from the evidence that Ive seen, that NatWest was responsible. 
I have also considered the overall picture, as Mr G has requested. That is, Ive considered 
both Mr Gs complaints, about the administrator and NatWest whilst knowing the facts 
related to both complaints. But there hasnt been any liaison between the two businesses 
and the complaints about each can, and must, be looked at separately.
The direct debit has been replaced with a new one and Mr G hasnt made any financial loss. 
So though we do try to identify where a business has done something wrong, if on the 
evidence I cant say whether it is likely that NatWest did do something wrong, I cant uphold 
the complaint.
As an alternative dispute resolution service, our function is to try to resolve complaints 
between the parties informally.  As far as I know the new direct debit instruction is working 
well, so though it would be helpful to know exactly what happened there is no further 
complaint to resolve. 
So as Im not satisfied that NatWest made any error here, I cant uphold the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman