DRN-4151400
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the service they received from Yorkshire Building 
Society when they wanted to apply for a new preferential rate product in May 2022.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage with Yorkshire that was split into two parts. Yorkshire allowed 
customers to apply for new preferential rate products 120 days before the end of the existing 
rate so Mr and Mrs C made an appointment for 4 May 2022 so they could have a discussion 
about the new rates that were available for the first part of their mortgage. The second part 
couldnt be reviewed until 2 August 2022 unless Mr and Mrs C paid an early repayment 
charge (ERC).
Unfortunately Yorkshire had some delays with releasing the details of the products it had 
available, with those not being released until 6 May 2022. As an announcement from the 
Bank of England was due on 5 May about any change in the base rate, Yorkshire confirmed 
the rates had been priced the week before and would be honoured for all customers 
affected. It said it wouldnt re-price the products if the base rate increased on 5 May.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy about the delay in the products being announced, saying it 
meant they were unable to compare Yorkshires rates to those from other lenders before the 
Bank of England announcement on 5 May.
I understand Mr and Mrs C could see the rates online on 6 May, and they had a follow up 
appointment on 7 May to discuss the rates, but in that call they said they were going to wait 
until six months before part two was due to end, and then start the process of remortgaging 
to a different provider with the aim of that completing as soon as the ERC period ended with 
Yorkshire. The call handler confirmed the new mortgage would need to start on 1 December 
if an ERC was to be avoided.
Later that month Mr and Mrs C applied to transfer part one onto the rate that was available 
on 4 May (albeit they werent able to see it for a few days), and they opted to pay the ERC 
for part two so they could also select a new rate for that part. That rate was different to the 
rate for part one, as the rate for part one was only available for mortgages that had a rate 
ending at a certain time, whereas the rate they selected for part two was available for 
customers that paid the ERC to come out of a rate early (or were already on the standard 
variable rate).
Yorkshire responded to the complaint on 27 June 2022. It apologised for any distress and 
inconvenience caused and said it would like to offer £135 compensation. It said whilst it 
agreed Mr and Mrs C had a poor experience, it didnt feel their request for £10,000 
compensation was warranted.
Unhappy with Yorkshires response Mr and Mrs C referred the complaint to our service. In 
their complaint form they said £135 didnt reflect the severity of the matter, and it also didnt 
reflect the fact theyd been given incorrect information in the first call. They said they felt 
£2,000 would be sufficient compensation.
The complaint was looked at by one of our Investigators. He said whilst things had gone 
wrong he felt the £135 offered by Yorkshire was fair. He said there was no financial loss as 
Mr and Mrs C had got the same rate when they eventually applied as they would have got 
on 4 May, and as they hadnt got any formal offers from any other lenders we couldnt 
evidence any loss there either.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They said this wasnt a single error, it was multiple errors around 
an incredibly stressful time. Mr C said he had to take the rest of the day off on the 4 May to 
escalate matters with Yorkshire, and £135 was only £62.50 [sic] each. They said it wasnt a 
one-off incident as the rates were unavailable for days, and they were given incorrect 
information that a glitch was responsible and that Bank of England wouldnt be reviewing 
rates for another two weeks. 
Mr and Mrs C said they were caused substantial distress, upset and worry (which had a 
knock on effect for their children), and Mr C was humiliated by having to ask his employer for 
a day off on the day because of financial matters. They felt compensation warrants 
consideration in at least the £750 bracket, potentially the £1,500 bracket.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Mr and Mrs C have said that they were given incorrect information about when the next Bank 
of England announcement about the base rate would be. This is what we call a 
misrepresentation; that is, Yorkshire gave incorrect information to Mr and Mrs C on that 
point. 
When were looking at complaints about misrepresentation we consider the appropriate 
remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information 
hadnt been given. Mr and Mrs C are already back in the position they would have been in 
had they been told in the 9am call on 4 May that the Bank of England announcement would 
be the following day because Mr C said, in a later call that same day, hed already checked 
the information so knew the announcement would be the following day.
As Mr C said in a later call, people can make mistakes. I dont think there is anything sinister 
in that misrepresentation or that the call handler intended to mislead Mr and Mrs C. It seems 
it was an honest mistake, and there was no loss caused by it as Mr and Mrs C had the 
correct information that same day. Yorkshire apologised for the misrepresentation in the third 
call of 4 May and Im satisfied that is enough to resolve this part of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have also made reference to the different ways the delay was explained, with 
it being called a glitch, an IT issue and the full explanation that it was due to the new rates 
not being fully tested in time. Mr and Mrs C may think otherwise but I dont think those 
explanations are completely at odds with each other, as at the heart of the delay was that 
the computer system wasnt ready to display the rates. 
The full explanation was provided to Mr and Mrs C in the third call of 4 May, but that 
explanation wasnt contrary to what either of the earlier two call handlers had said (that it was a glitch, and that a department was behind schedule). Earlier in the first conversation of 
4 May the call handler provided a more detailed explanation in that the department that sets 
the products were having an issue with their system which is why the products werent 
available yet, with the word glitch only being used to reassure Mr and Mrs C that there were 
no sinister reasons for the delay, such as Yorkshire awaiting the Bank of England 
announcement the following day before setting the rates as Mr C had asked.
The third call handler explained that the delay was due to the product development team 
(the department the first call handler had referred to) not having completed the product 
testing that is required before a product is launched (the system issue the first call handler 
had referred to). It may be the first call handler was slightly wrong in his explanation, but that 
doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint as irrespective of the reason, Mr and Mrs C 
were told in each call that the rates would be released on 6 May. They were also reassured 
that the rates had already been priced and set and wouldnt be changed if the base rate 
changed the following day.
Its unfortunate there was a delay but I must keep in mind the delay was only two days and 
Mr and Mrs C had been told from the start how long the delay would be and they were 
assured the same rate would be available as they could have obtained that day.
Mr and Mrs C have referred to this not being a one-off incident as the rates were unavailable 
for days. But that doesnt mean it wasnt a one-off incident. It was one incident that led to a 
delay of two days before Mr and Mrs C were able to discuss the products in a follow up 
appointment, albeit Mr and Mrs C chose not to do so as they werent happy and said they 
would be remortgaging elsewhere. 
It is unfortunate that Mr and Mrs C didnt know the Yorkshire rates on 4 May so they could 
compare them to other providers before the Bank of England announcement on 5 May but, 
as our Investigator explained, we cant award compensation for any potential financial loss 
because weve nothing to compare it with. Mr and Mrs C havent provided us with any 
evidence of a rate they would have been able to successfully apply for on 4 May for a 
remortgage to a different lender. 
Mr and Mrs C obtained a rate fixed at 2.35% until 31 August 2027 for part 1 of their 
mortgage, and that is the same rate they would have been able to book on 4 May if nothing 
had gone wrong. And, I think, that rate is broadly in line with the rates that would have been 
available with other lenders for remortgages on 4 May if Mr and Mrs C had been able to 
compare.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C havent shown any financial loss 
and so I make no award for that.
I now turn to their request for a higher sum for the distress and inconvenience caused. I 
dont consider any additional payment is due for the inadvertent misinformation that was 
given in call one about when the next Bank of England announcement would be, nor for the 
explanations about what the issue is. So that just leaves the underlying issue, the delay in 
the new rates being published. As Ive said, this was a one-off incident that was resolved 
within days.
Mr C has said he had to book the day off work in an attempt to rectify the issue. But in the 
third call of 4 May Mrs C answered the phone and said she needed to check if Mr C was on 
a call. When the call handler referenced that later in the call and asked if Mr C was working 
from home (whilst arranging what would happen next) Mr C said Yes Im working from 
home. In any event there was nothing that could be rectified or that required time off work 
that day. Yorkshire had been clear that the rates werent ready and wouldnt be available until 6 May. All that needed to be done was for Mr and Mrs C to wait until then to see the 
rates, and then they could apply if they wanted to.
The award of compensation is on a joint basis, so it is one award of £135 overall, rather than 
it being £67.50 each. That puts the award in our band An award  of up to £300 which our 
website explains as
If an error has caused the consumer more than the levels of frustration and annoyance 
you might reasonably expect from day-to-day life, and the impact has been more than just 
minimal, then an apology wont be enough to remedy the mistake.
An award between £100 and £300 might be fair where there have been repeated small 
errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. These typically 
result in an impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and cause either some distress, 
inconvenience, disappointment or loss of expectation.
That describes this situation well as it was an error that caused more frustration and 
annoyance than you might reasonably expect from day-to-day life, and the error resulted in 
an impact that lasted a few days.
Whilst Yorkshire couldnt tell Mr and Mrs C what rates they were eligible for, it did assure 
them that the rates had been set before the May Bank of England announcement and would 
be honoured, regardless of what happened with the base rate on 5 May. It released the rates 
as soon as it could, and Mr and Mrs C werent treated any differently to any other customer 
who wanted to book a rate at that time.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Cs frustration, but this was a two-day delay that had no 
financial impact on them. Had Yorkshire not already made that offer I wouldnt have awarded 
any more. Having considered everything Im satisfied Yorkshires offer is fair.
My final decision
Yorkshire Building Society has already made an offer to pay £135 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Yorkshire Building 
Society should pay £135 (less any amounts already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman