DRN-2042265
The complaint
Miss O complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax closed her account and 
authorised a payment out of her account that she asked it to cancel.
What happened
Miss O says she bought an airline ticket but called Halifax to cancel the payment. She says 
she was told that would take place but later found out the money left her account and took 
her into an unarranged overdraft. Miss O says Halifax then told her it was closing all her 
accounts which she says is unfair. She says the payment shouldnt have left her account 
and would like Halifax to refund the money as well as reinstate her accounts. Miss O says 
shes been cause stress as a result of what took place and would like an explanation. 
Halifax says its entitled to close an account by giving 60 days notice in writing which it says 
its done here. It says Miss O authorised the payment and it had no choice but to authorise 
the payment and couldnt cancel it. Halifax says it has no record of a call Miss O says she 
made to it.
Miss O brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
thought Halifax was entitled to close an account in line with account terms and conditions by 
giving notice which it did. The investigator thought Halifax had no choice but to process the 
transaction which Miss O authorised. But thought Halifax could have told Miss O that and 
thought it likely Miss O would have made sure there was money in the account as she had 
money in a different Halifax account. The investigator recommended Halifax pay Miss O 
£150 compensation for that part of the complaint.
Halifax has agreed with that recommendation and has sent Miss O a cheque for that 
amount.
Miss O doesnt accept that view and says the accounts shouldnt have been closed and a 
payment shouldnt have been made when she didnt have enough money in her account. 
She would like an explanation about both of those issues and says she will not accept the 
cheque.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont require Halifax to do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise Miss O will be disappointed by my 
decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Miss O would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that Halifax can close an 
account by giving 60 days notice in writing. Im satisfied that is what took place here and so I 
dont think Halifax made a mistake or acted unfairly by making that decision. I appreciate 
Miss O would like to find out the reason for that decision. But Im satisfied that Halifax isnt 
obliged to provide such reasons and I cant fairly order it to provide such reasons. Im also 
satisfied its up to Halifax to decide with whom it wishes to have a business relationship, just 
as its up to Miss O to decide with whom she has an account with.
The terms and conditions also make clear that Halifax cant cancel a payment that, as in this 
case, Miss O has authorised. I dont think there is any dispute here that Miss O did authorise 
the payment for a flight and so I dont think in those circumstances Halifax had any choice in 
the matter but to authorise and process Miss Os transaction. I appreciate that there were 
problems with the ticket, but I dont think that was something Halifax had any control over, 
and it would have been for Miss O to complain to the flight provider.
I appreciate Miss O says that she didnt have an overdraft facility and so the transaction 
shouldnt have been processed in any event. But I can see there was sufficient money in the 
account when Miss O made the payment and again the account terms and conditions say 
that a transaction may be authorised in these circumstances, and any unarranged overdraft 
may be asked to be repaid. I think that is what took place here, that Halifax processed Miss 
Os authorised payment and had no choice but to authorise it and then asked her to repay 
the money.
I accept that if Miss O had been told that then she could have transferred money from her 
other account. And I can see that Halifax accepts it could have dealt with that part of the 
complaint more appropriately. I agree with the investigators recommendation of £150 
compensation which I think is fair and reasonable for that limited part of the complaint. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Halifax has fairly agreed to pay Miss O £150 compensation and has sent 
her a cheque for that amount. I appreciate that Miss O has said she doesnt wish to accept it 
and so I will leave it to her to decide if she does now wish to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and that Halifax has 
fairly agreed to pay £150 compensation for part of this complaint. Miss Os acceptance of 
that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman