DRN-3812046
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that when they asked Nationwide Building Society to use the 
drawdown facility to borrow back some of the money theyd overpaid on their mortgage, it 
refused, on the basis of an internal policy that Mr and Mrs K couldnt have been aware of.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had an interest only mortgage with Nationwide. They said they had overpaid 
almost £300,000 over the years theyd held this mortgage. And at various times, they had 
given the required 10 days' notice and taken back some of those overpayments.
Mr and Mrs K told us they contacted Nationwide to discuss doing the same thing again, but it
said it wouldnt let them borrow back overpayments in the final year of the mortgage term. Mr
and Mrs K said Nationwide had agreed that this rule wasnt written anywhere in the terms of
the mortgage, and that they werent warned about it before entering the final year of lending.
Mr and Mrs K said they didnt understand how Nationwide could apply a policy that they
couldnt have known about.
Mr and Mrs K said fortunately they didnt need the overpayment back, but this had become a
matter of principle. They still thought they should be given the right to withdraw some or all of
their overpayment, if they wanted to, and should then be able to choose and negotiate a
mortgage deal in September on the new outstanding balance.
Nationwide said Mr and Mrs K werent eligible for a borrow back because they had less than
twelve months remaining on their mortgage. And it said this was a product policy, so it 
wasnt published externally. Nationwide said this was designed in order to protect its 
customers from accruing an unaffordable repayment on their mortgage account, within the 
final months of a mortgage product.
Nationwide had understood Mr and Mrs K intended to extend the term of their mortgage, but
it said they have an interest only mortgage, and Nationwide doesnt offer a term extension
on those. Nationwide had told Mr and Mrs K that they could apply to transfer their mortgage
account from interest only into a capital repayment mortgage, and could then apply for a
term extension. But Nationwide said that would have to go through the application process,
and there would be no guarantee they would be accepted for either of these things.
Nationwide then wrote again to Mr and Mrs K, to respond to their comments that any policy
which affects them should be put in writing to them. Nationwide said it isn't quite as
straightforward as that, as there are a number of different scenarios that could determine
what it would need to tell customers. Not all mortgages have a borrow back facility, and for
those that do, Nationwide treats different types of mortgages differently.
Nationwide said that Mr and Mrs K have an interest only mortgage, and Nationwide doesnt
offer that sort of mortgage any more. It could look at converting the mortgage to a repayment
mortgage, which would then allow a term extension, and then it might be able to agree the
borrow back, subject to other lending criteria being met. Nationwide said it would still
suggest that Mr and Mrs K spoke to a mortgage advisor if they wanted to go ahead with this.
Nationwide said that it does review this situation on a case by case basis and it has a
discussion, where relevant, with customers who are looking to borrow back funds within the
last twelve months of their mortgage term.
Nationwide didnt think it had to put this policy in writing to affected customers. It said it
would never want to put its customers in in a position where they'd borrowed back some of
the overpayments they'd made with only a short term remaining, as this could mean the
monthly repayments would be unaffordable. So it said that when customers ask for borrow
back, it will discuss the options available and relevant to them at that point.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said there were two key points
here, one was the reason Nationwide didnt tell Mr K of the final year borrow back conditions.
The other is why Nationwide doesnt permit customers to borrow back in their final year.
Our investigator didnt accept that Nationwide couldnt have sent account specific
information to Mr and Mrs K. He didnt think Nationwide could just withhold this information
because it was an internal product policy. So he thought they could have been told that the
borrow back facility was no longer available to them.
Our investigator also said Nationwide had justified the policy on the basis of responsible
lending. But he said that there was no attempt to account for Mr Ks actual financial
circumstances or ability to afford repayments, which our investigator thought would only
have been the payments he was making before the voluntary overpayment anyway.
Our investigator said Mr K had made his overpayment on a false premise, and was unable to
access those funds later, should he have wished to. So our investigator thought Nationwide
should allow Mr and Mrs K to use the borrow back facility, if they wanted to do so. And it
should pay Mr and Mrs K £250 in compensation.
Mr and Mrs K agreed with this solution, but Nationwide didnt.
Nationwide said Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage was due to finish shortly (I understand it has since
ended). And when Mr K asked about borrow back, he wanted to borrow an additional
£80,000 or £90,000. Nationwide said if Mr and Mrs K had been approaching the end of their
interest only mortgage, and had a large balance still outstanding, the relevant team would
have been discussing this with them for some time. So Nationwide was concerned about
putting Mr and Mrs K in that position, suddenly, just before their mortgage ended.
Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs K if they still wanted to use the borrow back facility, and
they said they had changed their mind about the appropriate resolution to the complaint.
They wanted Nationwide to pay them £1,000, which they could then use to clear this
mortgage entirely. They also wanted a personal apology from a named contact at
Nationwide. They said they understood they wouldnt be offered a long period to pay back
£300,000 of borrowing, but they believed they were entitled to ask for as much time as
Nationwides mortgage policy made possible.
Our investigator asked again if Mr and Mrs K intended to use the borrow back facility, and
they said it was now too late to do what they had needed to do with the money. So they
confirmed they no longer wanted to draw down extra funds. They still thought they should be
paid more compensation, for the missed opportunity of using the money which belonged to
them and which our investigator had agreed should have been made available to them.
Nationwide said that once Mr and Mrs K had confirmed they didnt want to borrow back more
money, it would agree to a payment of £250 in compensation. But because Mr and Mrs K nolonger agreed to that, this case came to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
Our investigator thought there were two points to this complaint, that Mr and Mrs K 
werent made aware that they couldnt borrow back on their mortgage in the final year, 
and why Nationwide doesnt allow customers to borrow back in their final year.
I think its important to note that Im not making a decision here on the overall policies 
that Nationwide has in place. Our service isnt a regulator, and my role here is to look 
only at the issues raised in Mr and Mrs Ks case. And, in applying this approach, I see 
this case somewhat differently.
It seems that Mr and Mrs K have previously understood that they have a right to take 
back any overpaid amount on their mortgage, and that they have done so, without any 
formalities, in the past. However, I also note that Mr and Mrs K have held this interest 
only mortgage for many years, and the overpayments they have been making have 
been in order to reduce the capital owed, so that they dont have a large amount 
outstanding at the end of the mortgage. So I dont think our investigator was right to say 
that any borrowing back would only leave Mr and Mrs K making the monthly payments 
they had made before they overpaid. A large borrow back in the final months of Mr and 
Mrs Ks mortgage might, as Nationwide said, leave them with a large amount to pay 
back at the end of the term. 
Mr and Mrs K did want to borrow back quite a large sum. Nationwide said they 
mentioned either £80,000 or £90,000. And I understand that they didnt envisage paying 
this amount off at the end of the mortgage term, around nine months later. They also 
wanted to extend their mortgage term, and they seem to have understood that this 
would all be part of their borrow back request. But I dont think it is. I cant see anything 
in Nationwides published documentation about borrow back, which suggests that 
theres also a right to extend the term to allow the borrower time to repay the money 
thats been borrowed back.
So I dont think Mr and Mrs K were ever asking solely to borrow back money they had 
overpaid, within the original term of their loan. They were also asking to extend the term, 
so they then had more time to pay that off.
Nationwide said no to just allowing the borrow back. But as Ive explained, I dont think 
thats what Mr and Mrs K were asking for.
I understand that Nationwide has said from the start, that it would consider an 
application from Mr and Mrs K to change their loan type (as it no longer offers interest 
only lending) and to extend the term of their loan, so they could borrow more. But 
Nationwide said these were new lending decisions, and they would have to be the 
subject of an application.
I do think that there have been communications failings here. I think it was unhelpful for 
Nationwide to say that it wouldnt, in any circumstances, allow Mr and Mrs K to borrow 
back in their last year. It is possible to speculate about different circumstances, in which 
this would have been an unreasonable response to a request for borrow back in the last year. And I think Nationwides blanket response, based on a policy Mr and Mrs K 
werent aware of, has contributed to Mr and Mrs Ks feeling that this is a matter of 
principle which ought to be pursued, even though they have said that they dont need 
this borrowing.
But Ive explained that I do have to look at the circumstances of this case, and I do think 
it was reasonable for Nationwide to say that it wouldnt simply agree a large borrow back 
request for Mr and Mrs K in the last year of their interest only mortgage, when they 
seemingly had no way of paying off that lending by the end of the existing mortgage 
term. I think that was a responsible lending decision, and it was reasonable. It was also 
reasonable for Nationwide to suggest that Mr and Mrs K should talk to a mortgage 
advisor, to discuss whether Nationwide could make the changes to their mortgage which 
would allow them to access extra borrowing - importantly, in circumstances where all 
parties could be confident they could pay this back.
Because I do think there have been communications failures here, I think Nationwide 
should pay Mr and Mrs K some compensation. And I think the amount of £250, which 
Nationwide has agreed to pay, does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this part 
of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. But, looking at all the circumstances of this particular 
complaint, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to refuse Mr and Mrs Ks 
request to borrow back a large amount of money in the final months of their interest only 
lending, where Mr and Mrs K didnt appear to have a way to pay off that lending at the 
end of the term, and apparently didnt envisage doing so. So I dont think Nationwide 
has to do that now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide said it had nothing further to add. Mr K sent a substantive reply.
Mr K said he thought that I still had some misunderstanding of this complaint, which he felt 
was caused by Nationwides misinformation. Mr K said hed deal with the issues in the same 
order as in my provisional decision, so he would address in turn the monies to be borrowed, 
the repayment issue, then the purpose of the borrow-back and compensation.
Monies to be borrowed  Mr K said he wanted to borrow back the overpayment, so he didnt 
know where Id got the reference to an extra £80,00 or 90,000 from. I used this figure 
because Nationwide said that when Mr K first asked about borrow back, this was the sum 
hed been looking to borrow, not the full overpayment of around £300,000.
Repayment  Mr K said I was right to say that Nationwide made no attempt to ask how they 
intended to pay the monies back. He said it should have asked.
But Mr K said I was wrong to say that he and Mrs K ..seemingly had no way of paying off 
that lending at the end of the term. Mr K said that he and Mrs K were comfortably off. Hed 
used borrow back before to keep his business afloat. He said that this was their money, and 
provided they gave Nationwide the ten days notice required, there was no quibble 
whatsoever on any previous borrow-back occasion. Hed expected the same this time.The use of the proposed borrow -back  Mr K said there were two important questions  how 
would they pay back £300,000 if Nationwide had given it when they asked, and what would 
they have done with the £300,000 that makes them feel that the £250 compensation is 
disproportionate to the lost opportunity?
Mr K said that they could have paid back the £300,000 in cash, and Nationwide only didnt 
know about this because it didnt ask. He said the flows of cash through their accounts were 
consistent with this. 
Mr K set out the investment they would have made with £300,000. He said this would have 
produced around £25,000 net income in the time since they first requested this borrow back. 
So he said compensation which represented only 1% of that was wholly disproportionate.
Compensation  Mr K said Id suggested £250 was fair and reasonable compensation, and I 
didnt want to award more, because I do not think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to 
refuse Mr and Mrs Ks request to borrow back a large amount of money in the final months 
of their interest free lending, where Mr and Mrs K didnt appear to have a way to pay off that 
lending at the end of the term, and apparently didnt envisage doing so. Again, Mr K said 
that was inaccurate, and he thought it was Nationwide who had misled me.
Mr K said it was almost a year before the loan period was due to end, not the final months. 
He said the fact that the loan was interest only was irrelevant  that was their choice of what 
was on offer from Nationwide when they took out the mortgage. He said they did have a way 
of paying back the money but Nationwide didnt ask. And finally, he wanted to know who had 
said they apparently didnt envisage paying back the borrow-back at the end of the term? He 
said they never had that conversation with Nationwide. Mr K said that much of Nationwides 
story here was pure conjecture. 
In summary, Mr K said he and Mrs K had overpaid Nationwide. They had no reason to 
believe Nationwide would not let them borrow back the monies, as it had done so previously. 
He said Nationwide not telling them about its internal rule on borrowing in the final year had 
been addressed. It was wrong. They could have used the money to invest, and they were 
denied that opportunity. They felt the current £250 award was insufficient and unfair. And 
they wanted me to reconsider.
Mr K also said that they hadnt asked for a personal apology from a named individual at 
Nationwide, as Id suggested in my provisional decision. Mr K said he had written to 
someone who leads on Nationwides relationship with its customers. He said he didnt 
understand why this person wasnt directly referred to in my published report. He said this 
person had been courteous and had passed his complaint on to their team. What he wanted 
now was for the same person to be made directly aware of my ruling and of the outcome of 
the case, so that if they chose, they could instruct the relevant team to respond differently to 
customers who may have the same complaint in the future.
Having summarised Mr Ks reply to our service, Id like to respond. And I should start by 
saying that I dont think I have been misled by Nationwide in this case. Rather, the 
comments I relied on in reaching my provisional decision were taken from Mr Ks 
communications with our service. I understand that cases can take some time to work 
through our service, and that by the end of this process, recollections may not always be 
clear, but Mr Ks earlier representations to our service do appear to me to be somewhat 
different to what Mr K says now. 
Our services complaint form asks a direct question  how have you been affected  
financially or otherwise? Here, Mr K told us that What has affected us is the stress of the 
original complaint. And similarly, when Mr K referred his complaint to the named individual at Nationwide, he said I don't need the overpayment back but it has become a matter of 
principle. So there appears to have been no suggestion before now that Mr and Mrs K had 
incurred any financial loss, even though our complaint form includes a direct question on 
this.
For that reason, I dont think Mr K has set out for our service before now that he planned to 
make a large investment with this money, or that he thought Nationwide ought to 
compensate him and Mrs K for the lost income that this investment would have provided.
Our services complaint form then asks How would you like the business to put things right 
for you?. Mr Ks response started with An apology from the individual employee of 
Nationwide, referred to above. And in a later response to our investigator, Mr K said what he 
wanted was A personal apology.. from this named employee.
So I do think Mr K did ask for an apology from a named Nationwide employee.
I shall pause here to respond to Mr Ks comments about why I havent named this individual. 
Thats partly because this complaint is brought against the organisation as a whole, and its 
based on the collective responsibility of that organisation. But its also because naming any 
individual Nationwide employee simply doesnt appear to me to be necessary for the 
resolution of this complaint.
Returning to Mr Ks communications with our service, in the complaint form section titled 
How would you like the business to put things right for you?, Mr K then continued The right 
to withdraw some or all of the overpayment should we choose, and to negotiate a mortgage 
deal in September on the new outstanding balance.
Mr K also said I was wrong to say that he had no way to pay back Nationwide at the end of 
the mortgage term. He said Nationwide had simply never asked him this. 
I accept that Nationwide didnt ask Mr K this, but our service did. Our investigator initially 
upheld Mr Ks complaint, and Nationwide then raised concerns about how the mortgage 
would be repaid, if it was to allow Mr and Mrs K to borrow back their overpayment very 
shortly before the mortgage was due to be repaid. So our investigator wrote to ask Mr K how 
he planned to repay. That letter set out Nationwides concerns as follows They are, 
however, looking to clarify whether you're still intending to complete a borrow back, and, if 
this is this case, they have asked for details of plans to repay it at the end of the term (which 
I understand is quite soon). 
In response to what I consider was a direct question about how he would repay the 
mortgage at the end of the term, Mr K said he didnt anticipate that he and Mrs K would 
be offered a lengthy period over which to pay back c.£300,000 drawback to Nationwide. I 
do believe we are entitled to ask them for as much time as their mortgage policy makes it 
possible. 
It appears that it was only when I explained that any right to draw down overpayments would 
not automatically entitle Mr and Mrs K to extend the term of their mortgage, that Mr K 
suggested he could always have repaid, and indeed, would have explained this to 
Nationwide if it had asked. But he didnt explain this to our service, when we did ask.
Unfortunately, I think that Mr Ks more recent recollections are not clearly on all fours with 
what he has previously said to our service. So I do think it was reasonable to assume that Mr 
K didnt have a plan to repay his mortgage at the end of the term, not only because he didnt 
seem to think he needed to, but also because he didnt offer this plan, when our service 
asked about this. I do think its generally most likely that Mr Ks recollections closer to the time are more likely 
to be accurate. So Im afraid Im not able, at this stage, to adopt his revised case, and decide 
that its most likely that Mr K could have repaid his mortgage once it was due, and would 
indeed have set this out for Nationwide if it had asked about this. 
And that, in turn, means I still think that, in the circumstances of this case, Nationwide didnt 
have to allow Mr and Mrs K to borrow back the money they had overpaid, within the final 
twelve months of their mortgage term.
For the above reasons, I havent changed my mind in this case. So Ill now make the 
decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr and Mrs K £250 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman