DRN-3210391
The complaint
Mr L1 and Mr L2 complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money will not pay a 
full three years interest on the fixed-rate bond they took out in 2020.
  
What happened
Mr L1 and Mr L2 applied to open a Virgin Money Fixed Rate Bond, Issue 465, in May 2020. 
The application form was completed on 14 May 2020 and the bond opened on 27 May 2020. 
However, payment wasnt made into the bond until sometime after this because of delays 
experienced by Mr L1 in receiving monies from a previous bond he held with a separate, but 
related, business. Mr L1 made a complaint about that process, which was also referred to 
this service and has been dealt with separately.
As a consequence of that other complaint, and by way of the relationship between the two 
businesses, an interest payment was made into the new bond to put Mr L1 and Mr L2 in the 
position their bond wouldve been in had investment taken place on 15 June 2020.
Although this correction has been made, Mr L1 and Mr L2 remain concerned that they will 
not receive a full three years interest on the bond, as it matures on 1 May 2023. They feel 
that as its a three-year bond they should receive three years of interest. 
Our investigator looked into the matter but concluded that Virgin Money had done nothing 
wrong. She felt it had been made clear that the bond would end on 1 May 2023 and noted 
that it had been open for applications from 9 April 2020 through to 28 May 2020. As such, it 
was possible that some bondholders who invested earlier would benefit from the full three 
years, or more, of interest. But as Mr L1 and Mr L2s investment hasnt been made until the 
adjusted date of 15 June 2020, it was correct that they would earn interest for a slightly 
shortened period. 
Mr L1 responded in disagreement with the investigators view saying, in brief:
He was adamant that he and Mr L2 should get three years of interest because he 
applied for the bond in May 2020.
He felt he was getting penalised because of the delay by the other business in 
transferring the money.
The process of transferring monies between the businesses shouldve been easier 
because of the nature of their relationship.
If the businesses had sorted out the transfer as soon as the new bond was opened, 
he and Mr L2 wouldve started to get interest from that date. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matters been referred to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that this complaint is linked to the other complaint Mr L1 made about the provider 
of his previous bond. But that has been dealt with separately and while I am aware of the 
circumstances, my consideration here relates only to what Virgin Money has, or hasnt, done 
wrong. 
And in that respect, I dont think it has acted incorrectly by not paying interest from an earlier 
point or not paying it for a longer period to ensure that Mr L1 and Mrs L2s investment 
receives three whole years worth of interest. 
Its clear there was a delay in them being able to invest, but that has been addressed 
thought the actions of the other business. It means that their investment effectively occurred 
on 15 June 2020 (a date after the bond had actually closed for new business but facilitated 
by way of the relationship between the businesses). 
Looking at the promotional information for the new bond it is clear that, regardless of when 
investment was made, the bond had a maturity date of 1 May 2023. I accept that the Key 
Product Information did refer to a three-year term. And it wouldve been possible to achieve 
a three-year term, providing investment was made by 1 May 2020. But Mr L1 and Mr L2 
couldnt have made their investment that early because they didnt open their bond until 27 
May 2020 and Mr L1 didnt approach the other business to arrange payment until June 2020. 
So, while I understand the delays were very frustrating for Mr L1  and, as noted, theyve 
been addressed separately  I dont think they prevented Mr L1 and Mr L2 from investing 
early enough to take advantage of the full three years of fixed rate interest from the new 
bond.
I appreciate Mr L1 will be disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator and found that Virgin Money did nothing wrong. And I can see how and why he 
has linked the issues of delay with not being able to benefit from three years of interest. But 
Im satisfied that its correct that interest will only be paid until the bonds maturity date of 
1 May 2023, and not until the third anniversary of the effective date of investment into the 
bond.    
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L1 and Mr L2 to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman