DRN-2945559
The complaint
Mr B complains about Lloyds Insurance Company SA about a claim he made on a holiday 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B insures a property he owns in France with Lloyds. What happened here is known to 
both parties, but Ill summarise it briefly below:
Mr B visited the property and discovered there had been a landslide which had 
caused cracking damage to the grounds.
He made a claim on the policy. Lloyds said that the claim wouldnt be covered as 
there had been no damage to the main dwelling at the property, in line with the 
policys terms and conditions. He was advised that if he could provide evidence of 
damage to the main dwelling, Lloyds would reconsider cover for the claim.
Mr B complained to Lloyds. It paid him £50 compensation as hed been given an 
incorrect telephone number to call in the event of a claim in his policy documents. But 
it said it was satisfied that the claim had been declined fairly.
As Mr B remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought Lloyds actions were reasonable. Mr B didnt accept this and has 
asked for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cause of the damage to Mr Bs property is agreed to have been a landslide. The policy 
provides cover for damage to the property caused by landslip, but the terms and conditions 
say theres no cover for Damage to swimming pools, ornamental ponds and fountains, hard 
courts, terraces, patios, drives, footpaths, walls, gates, fences, hedges or fixed tanks 
providing fuel to the home, unless we also accept a claim for subsidence, heave or landslip 
damage to the home. The policy definition of home is The private dwelling of permanent
construction comprising house, bungalow, cottage, chalet or flat and its outbuildings.
 Im satisfied Lloyds acted reasonably when it declined cover for Mr Bs claim when it was 
informed that there was no damage to the main dwelling of the property. The policy terms 
and conditions require it to be damaged for a claim for damage to other parts of the property 
caused by a landslip to be covered.
Looking at the notes from Lloyds detailing its contact with Mr B, it appears that he initially 
said there was no damage to the main dwelling of the property. After being told that the 
claim wouldnt be covered in line with the conditions of the policy, he said there may be 
damage to the main dwelling. Lloyds said it would reconsider the claim if Mr B could provide 
evidence of this.
Mr B thinks this is unfair and that Lloyds should make arrangements for the property to be 
inspected. He says this is a requirement under French law. He hasnt provided any details of 
this law or the obligations this apparently places on Lloyds. But in any case, the policys 
terms and conditions say that Unless specifically agreed to the contrary this contract of 
insurance shall be governed by the laws of England and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction 
of the courts of England and Wales. This means that Lloyds isnt bound by French laws in 
how it administers the policy and claims.
Its a general principle of insurance that a claimant needs to demonstrate that that theyve 
suffered the loss claimed for (in this case, that theres been damage to the main dwelling). I 
think Lloyds acted reasonably when it said it would reconsider Mr Bs claim if evidence of 
this could be provided. 
I also think that the £50 compensation paid to Mr B is sufficient to recognise the 
inconvenience caused by him being provided with the incorrect telephone number to make a 
claim. I understand that he spent time trying to contact Lloyds without success and that this 
would have been frustrating. I dont think hes been materially disadvantaged by this, as the 
decision regarding cover for the claim would have been the same irrespective of him being 
given the wrong telephone number in the policy documents.
Mr B has also said that the policy was mis-sold. Lloyds are the insurer here and it was a 
broker who sold the policy  any complaint about how the policy was sold needs to be 
directed to the broker, not Lloyds as it didnt sell the policy to Mr B.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman