DRN-3198527
The complaint
Mrs A complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA gave her incorrect advice which led 
to her dispute being incorrectly closed. 
What happened
In June 2021, Mrs A purchased an item using her PayPal account. When it arrived, she 
found that it wasnt as described and she was concerned it was fake, so she opened a 
dispute with PayPal in July 2021.
PayPal emailed Mrs A to let her know that if she was unable to resolve her dispute with the 
seller within 20 days, shed need to escalate it to a claim otherwise it would be closed. So 
two days before the deadline, Mrs A called PayPal.
During this call, Mrs A asked for details of the next steps. But the connection was poor, and 
Mrs A says she wasnt able to clearly hear what was being said. So she told the advisor that 
shed call back  which she did shortly after.
On the second call, Mrs A was advised that if the seller didnt respond within the next two 
days the dispute would be closed in her favour and shed receive a refund. Based on this, 
Mrs A took no further action. But on the day of the deadline, she received an email to say 
her dispute was closed and couldnt be reopened.
PayPal acknowledges that Mrs A was given incorrect advice on the second call. But it says it 
gave correct information within all its emails, so its satisfied it provided enough information 
for Mrs A to have been aware of what she needed to do to escalate her dispute. As Mrs A 
didnt take any action, PayPal says it cant do anything further.
Mrs A brought her complaint to our service and our investigator upheld it. She said it was 
clear Mrs A intended on raising a claim, but she was told she didnt need to do anything by 
PayPals advisor. Based on this incorrect advice, Mrs A has lost the opportunity to raise her 
claim which could potentially have resulted in a refund of the cost of the item.
To put things right, our investigator has recommended that PayPal either reopen the claim or 
start a new claim allowing Mrs A to follow the process she wouldve taken had she not been 
given incorrect advice. Shes also said that if the claim is successful, PayPal should be liable 
for contacting the seller and to pay the refund itself if this cant be obtained. 
In addition, our investigator has recommended that PayPal pay compensation of £75 for the 
confusion and disappointment caused.
Mrs A accepted our investigators recommendations, but PayPal didnt. So the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of PayPals user agreement set out the process that should be 
followed if theres a problem with a purchase. This is a two-stage process, as follows:
Step one  open a dispute. 
Disputes must be opened within 180 days of the payment date. The account holder 
and the seller then have 20 days to work things out. 
Step two  raise a claim
If the attempt to resolve the problem with the seller is unsuccessful, the account 
holder can escalate the dispute to a claim. This must be filed within 20 days of when 
the dispute was first opened. PayPal will then review the case and provide a final 
decision.
Mrs A opened a dispute on 29 July 2021, which was within the 180 days of the payment 
date. PayPal has provided me with a copy of its email of the same date. I can see that it 
acknowledges a dispute has been opened and asks Mrs A to allow the seller time to 
respond. At the end of the email, it says:
If youre unable to resolve this issue with the seller, you can escalate it to a claim 
before 18 August 2021. Otherwise this case will be closed automatically on 18 
August 2021. Once a case has been closed, it cant be reopened or escalated to a 
claim.
Ive also seen that a further email from PayPal was sent on 15 August 2021, which was 
headed this case will auto-close soon. The email says:
This case will close automatically on 18 August 2021 if you cant reach an 
agreement with the seller and if the case isnt escalated. 
You can reach out to your seller to resolve this issue or escalate it as a claim to 
PayPal. If you escalate it before 18 August 2021, well investigate and adjudicate the 
case based on the information we receive. 
Once a case has been automatically closed, it cant be reopened or escalated.
Mrs A called PayPal on 16 August 2021 and Ive listened to the call recording. Mrs A tells the 
advisor that she has a pending claim and that the automated reference says if the seller 
doesnt respond within ten days, the case would be closed in [Mrs As] favour. But she says 
shes now received correspondence to say that if she doesnt take action, her case will be 
cancelled or closed. She asks the advisor if she needs to do anything. 
Whilst Im satisfied the emails quoted above are clear on the process Mrs A needs to take, 
based on this call recording its clear they are contradictory to information shes received 
elsewhere which has caused confusion. 
Mrs A has called PayPal in order to establish what exactly she needs to do to ensure her 
case continues. But unfortunately, due to poor connection, the remainder of the call is 
inaudible and its clear Mrs A cant hear what the advisor is telling her. The call ends when 
the advisor says, the line is breaking up and Mrs A responds yes, let me call back as I 
cant hear what is being said.Mrs A calls back and Ive listened to the call recording. The advisor asks Mrs A if shes 
calling for assistance or an update on her ongoing case. Mrs A says yes, I dont know if I 
need to take any action or whether I need to leave it like that.
The advisor then says: We are still waiting for the sellers response here andlet me 
seethere is no response coming from the seller as of the momentand he or she has one 
day and seven hours to goif the seller fails to do soif the seller fails to respond or 
communicate to PayPal then the system will automatically close the case in your favour and 
you will be receiving an email confirmation for that, and at the same time the refund will be 
processed for you.so once the refund has been processed it will take three to five 
business days before the refund will be posted to your accountso whatever happens to the 
disputebut if the seller will respond then that is the time well continue with the dispute 
process but if the seller doesnt respondyes thats correct.
Based on this information, Mrs A takes no further action. And on 18 August 2021, she 
receives an email from PayPal headed case closed which says:
The case you openedwas automatically closed because you didnt escalate it 
before 18 August 2021. Once a case has been closed, it cant be reopened or 
escalated to a PayPal claim.
PayPal admits that it gave Mrs A incorrect information, but it says it gave her enough correct 
information for her to be aware of what action she needed to take. But I dont agree. Ill 
explain why.
Firstly, Mrs A has been provided with conflicting information and I dont see how shes 
supposed to determine for herself what information is right and what information is wrong. 
This is the reason she called PayPal to establish what action she needed to take, and she 
followed the advice she was given. 
I dont think its unreasonable for Mrs A to rely on the advice shes given. And I see no 
reason for her to doubt, question or go against the advice given by the advisor.
And secondly, the information given in the user agreement and within PayPals emails refers 
to a dispute and a claim being the two stages of the process. And when Mrs A calls PayPal, 
she refers to her case as a claim. So its clear Mrs A was under the impression she had 
raised a claim and neither advisor corrected her. So it would be understandable if Mrs A had 
dismissed the emails telling her to raise a claim if she thought shed already done so.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that PayPal did something wrong by giving Mrs A incorrect 
information which led to her missing a deadline to pursue her claim. 
Putting things right
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, my role is to ensure the customer is 
put back in the position they wouldve been in had everything been done correctly.
In this case, if PayPal had acted correctly its advisor wouldve explained to Mrs A that she 
needed to escalate her dispute to a claim. And Im persuaded that Mrs A wouldve taken this 
action as its clear she didnt want her case to be closed. 
So in order to be put back in the position she wouldve been in, PayPal need to reopen 
Mrs As dispute and escalate it to a claim. It should then adjudicate the claim and issue a 
final decision as it shouldve done in August 2021.If Mrs A is unhappy with the outcome of her claim  for example, if PayPal doesnt uphold it 
or if its upheld but the seller doesnt pay due to the delay in taking this action  Mrs A can 
raise a new complaint to our service, and Id be happy to review PayPals actions on the 
claim at that time. 
PayPal has told us it cant reopen this dispute, but it hasnt given us a satisfactory reason 
why. So this is the action Im directing it to take. However, if this action cant be taken, then 
PayPal should pay the claim itself. This is because Mrs A wouldve lost the opportunity to 
pursue her claim at no fault of her own. 
Whilst I cant say for certain that this claim wouldve been successful, Im satisfied its due to 
PayPals actions that it wasnt progressed when it couldve been. So if the opportunity has 
been missed, its fair that PayPal stand in the shoes of the seller and refund the full cost of 
the item.
And finally, I agree with our investigator that compensation should be paid and I think £75 is 
a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience Mrs A has been caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I direct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to do the following:
Re-open Mrs As dispute, escalate it to a claim and follow the claims process,
OR
Pay Mrs A the value of her claim, which is the full cost of the item purchased on 
28 June 2021. PayPal is entitled to take possession of the item at that time.
In addition, I direct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to pay Mrs A compensation of £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman