DRN-4355162
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about how Paragon Bank Plc dealt with an account application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R applied for a joint account with Paragon in November 2022. They say there 
were a number of problems with the process. In summary they say the account wasnt 
opened correctly, Mrs Rs cheque was rejected, and they travelled to a nearby town to find 
out what happened. Mr and Mrs R would like compensation and for the lost interest to be 
repaid.
Paragon accept making mistakes with the application. It says the account was meant to be a 
sole account, but the application included Mrs R. Paragon says Mrs Rs second cheque was 
rejected by her building society and its terms and conditions say it will not pay interest in 
these circumstances. It has offered £50 compensation for the poor service.
Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to us, and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator recommended Paragon pay £250 for the lost interest on the £50,000 deposit 
and pay £250 compensation for what took place. The investigator thought the problems with 
the second cheque wouldnt have occurred if Paragon had opened the account correctly in 
the first place,
Mr and Mrs R accept that view, but Paragon doesnt. It says it doesnt award interest in 
these circumstances and in any event the money didnt leave Mrs Rs other account. 
Paragon has offered a further £50 compensation.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and said I had reached the provisional 
view that I intended to uphold this complaint but thought the fairest approach was for 
Paragon to pay Mr and Mrs R £200 compensation each. I didnt think it possible to be sure 
what the exact interest loss was without knowing if any interest was paid on the accounts 
that the money was sent from. And thought it difficult to calculate the exact loss in any event. 
I thought the fairest approach was to include an allowance for the interest loss within the 
compensation payment.
I was satisfied that overall Paragon ought to have dealt with, what should have been, a 
straightforward matter of, opening a new joint account for Mr and Mrs R far more effectively. 
I thought it difficult to follow what Paragon was saying about the mistakes here or potential 
mistakes as its position was confusing at best. For example, I could see that it suggested the 
problem may have been caused by a joint application but later says it ought to have opened 
a joint account. I made clear I couldnt see why that issue should have caused any issue as 
the application document clearly said Mr and Mrs R wanted a joint savings account.
I was satisfied that if the joint account had been opened correctly then Mrs Rs second 
cheque wouldnt have been rejected. And I could see that Mr and Mrs R were incorrectly told 
at one point that Paragon hadnt received the application or cheques. So, I had no doubt Mr 
and Mrs R were caused inconvenience in dealing with Paragon and would have been 
concerned to know what was happening. I accepted that on one occasion Mr R was so 
concerned about what took place he travelled to a local town to try and find out what was 
happening at his building society.
I was also satisfied that it took some time for matters to resolve. It appears that it took about 
a month for a resolution which of course meant for at least some of that time Mr and Mrs R, 
through no fault of theirs, were unable to earn interest on their savings or unable to earn 
what they wished to earn with Paragon. I made clear that during that time period Mr and Mrs 
R would have been concerned about what was happening and made calls to Paragon 
causing further inconvenience and distress.
I said the main issue for me to consider was the compensation level as Paragon accepts it 
made mistakes. I couldnt see what relevance the extract from its account terms and 
conditions had about interest and thought it appeared to relate to returning money due to an 
inability to verify identity. I was satisfied Mr and Mrs R were both individually caused distress 
and inconvenience and that matters took about a month to resolve. I also thought they would 
have been concerned about the safety of their savings and there was likely to have been 
some loss of interest on the money which I made clear was difficult to calculate exactly.
So, I thought the fairest approach was to direct Paragon to pay Mr and Mrs R £200 
compensation each which I thought was fair and reasonable and fairly considered the impact 
on them and made some allowance for their inability to invest the money elsewhere at that 
time or the loss of interest. I could see that Mr and Mrs R hadnt cashed the cheque for £50 
which I said, no doubt can be cancelled.
Paragon doesnt accept my view and says there were mistakes on both sides. It says £100 
compensation each would be appropriate.
Mr and Mrs R also dont accept my view and say they were given incorrect advice about the 
second cheque. They say they lost about £281 in interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for exactly the same reasons. I dont consider £100 compensation fair and 
reasonable as Paragon suggests for each person, but neither can I be sure what is the exact 
interest loss is without information I do not have, such as how long the account ought to 
have taken to open.
Putting things right
Paragon should pay Mr and Mrs R £200 compensation each in total and no doubt the 
previous cheques for compensation can be cancelled.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Paragon Bank Plc to pay Mr 
and Mrs R £200 compensation each making a total of £400 in total.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman