DRN-3423063
The complaint
Miss K says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail), irresponsibly lent to her. She has 
requested that the interest and late payment charges she paid on her account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue account provided by Studio Retail to Miss K. The 
account was opened in or around October 2009. Unfortunately we dont know the opening 
credit limit due to the time that has passed since then. We know that in August 2013 the 
credit limit on the account was increased from £1840 to £1950. There also followed two 
credit limit decreases, with the credit limit being increased to again in December 2014, this 
time to £1750, and then again to £1950 in February 2015. After three further decreases, 
the account balance fell to £990 in December 2016. In December 2017 the account and its 
outstanding arrears was sold to a third party. 
Miss K says that Studio Retail shouldnt have allowed her to open an account given that at 
the time she was a student with no regular income. Shes also unhappy that as her credit 
limits increased her financial position worsened, leading to her taking on further debt 
elsewhere. 
Our adjudicator thought that Studio Retail ought to have realised that Miss K wasnt in a 
position to sustainably repay any further credit on either account from August 2013. 
Studio Retail accepted our adjudicators findings. However, Miss K asked for the 
complaint to be referred to me as she has concerns that the compensation may not 
have been calculated correctly. She has also asked that I review the whole complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Did Studio Retail lend to Miss K irresponsibly?
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss K could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio Retail should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator has set out in some detail why she thought Studio Retail shouldnt have 
provided Miss K with any additional credit from August 2013 onwards.
Studio Retail is in agreement with our adjudicators finding, but Miss K has requested that 
I review the account again.  
Ive gone back and looked at the overall pattern of Studio Retails lending history with 
Miss K, with a view to seeing if there was some other point at which Studio Retail should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. If so, that would mean it should have realised that it shouldnt have continued 
increasing Miss Ks credit limit on her account.
Having reviewed the complaint in detail, Ive decided to partially uphold this complaint and 
on the same basis as our adjudicator. I will explain why. 
Studio Retail says that when Miss K opened her account checks were carried out to see if 
there were signs of financial difficulties and there were no affordability or risk concerns. From 
what we know about those checks, I dont think there is enough to suggest that it would have 
been unreasonable for Studio Retail to have approved the account opening. I dont know if 
Studio Retail asked Miss K about her financial situation or income at the time, which is 
something that may have helped it begin to build a picture of Miss Ks overall financial 
circumstances. But from what Ive seen, if it had theres not enough for me to say that the 
account wouldnt have been approved.
In August 2013 Miss Ks credit limit was increased from £1840 to £1950. But in the previous 
three months she had already entered into a significant level of debt borrowing with other 
high cost lenders, totalling over £3000. Bearing in mind that she would have also needed to 
meet daily living expenditure, it seems likely that her reliance on credit from Studio Retail 
and other sources meant her borrowing was no longer sustainable by then, leaving her with 
no or very little disposable income. I therefore think that had Studio Retail carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks at this point they likely would have shown or 
suggested Miss K was in no position to take on extra borrowing. 
So I think that Miss K lost out because Studio Retail increased her credit limit in August 
2013. I therefore think Studio Retail ought to have realised that there was a significant 
risk that increasing Miss Ks credit limit in these circumstances would lead to her 
indebtedness increasing unsustainably, worsening her already difficult financial situation. Is Studio Retail paying enough redress?
Miss K isnt convinced that Studio Retail has calculated the total redress due to her 
correctly. She says she would have expected to be refunded a greater level of interest and 
charges than the figure put forward by Studio Retail. She is also unhappy that Studio Retail 
increased her credit limit again in December 2014 and then again in February 2015. 
Studio Retail has told us how it calculated the redress and confirmed that it has taken into 
account each occasion when the balance exceeded the credit limit of £1840, being the 
credit limit in place prior to 1 August 2013. It also confirmed that it had refunded two late 
fees that were incurred after that date. 
Whilst I appreciate that Miss K expected the level of redress ought to have been more, I 
think Studio Retails offer of redress compensation has been calculated correctly and in 
accordance with the way we expect businesses to make such calculations when we make a 
finding that compensation ought to be paid due to irresponsible lending. Given that Im in 
agreement with our adjudicators findings and Studio Retails calculation which I consider 
has been prepared in accordance with our redress approach in these cases, I agree that 
Studio Retail should put things right on that basis. 
It follows that Studio Retail should put things right.
Putting things right  what Studio Retail needs to do
Rework Miss Ks account to ensure that from 1 August 2013 onwards interest 
is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £1840, including any buy 
now pay later interest, (being the credit limit that was in place before that date) to 
reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All 
late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Studio Retail should contact Miss K to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Miss K has repaid the outstanding balance, it should 
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file from 1 August 
2013. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss K, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. Studio Retail should also remove any adverse information from 
Miss Ks credit file from 1 August 2013 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to take off tax from this interest. 
Studio Retail must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Given that Studio Retail sold the outstanding balances on the account to a third party in 
December 2017, it either needs to buy the account back from the third party and make the 
necessary adjustments; pay an amount to the third party so it can make the necessary 
adjustments; or pay Miss K an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Miss Ks complaint. Studio Retail Limited 
should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman