DRN-3119990
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr R. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1997 alongside a store credit account. Mr R 
was sold the policy at the same time that he applied for the account in the shop.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mr R has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr R says the sales assistant falsely told him the PPI was mandatory, because of his other 
credit cards; and that the assistant misled him about the benefits, saying it would cover him 
for paying his other bills.  
First, Im conscious that this did happen a long time ago  about 24 years ago  and it 
wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember all the details after so long a time. So it 
may not be fair to rely only on what they now remember. 
And a problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having and it 
is clear the customer still has a choice and is given reasonable information. The closer it 
gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the 
less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be 
fair to say AXA did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
The one solid piece of information I have is the form, which Mr R signed; and this does set 
out the PPI as a choice, which you make by ticking a box  and there is a tick in that box. 
The form also does explain that the insurance covers your Account Card repayments in the 
event of sickness, accident, involuntary unemployment or loss of life. It doesnt imply that 
other bills are covered.
I realise though this doesnt disprove that Mr R was told he had to have PPI; nor that he was 
given wrong information about the benefits. But, overall, I dont have strong-enough 
evidence to say Mr R wasnt given a fair choice.
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being suitable for Mr Rs individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It would have 
been for Mr R to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Mr R clear and fair information, so he could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough. And Mr R is saying he was given misleading 
information. 
So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference. But in 
Mr Rs circumstances at the time, even if hed been given all the necessary information, I 
dont think its likely to have made a difference to his decision. (This is assuming he was 
given a choice, which I accept he says didnt happen.) I say this because Mr R has said he 
was only entitled to statutory sick pay, and that he didnt have savings. Also it doesnt look 
like hed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy, such as the 
one affecting pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mr R has supplied evidence that he had only been continuously employed for four months 
when he took out the PPI. This matters because there was a restriction in the policy that 
meant you couldnt claim for the unemployment benefit until youd been in continuous 
employment for six months.  However, Im not sure this restriction would have significantly 
affected Mr Rs attitude to the PPI. No one was able to make a valid claim if they were 
notified of the unemployment in the first 30 days of the policy. So the effect on Mr R was that 
he wouldnt be able to claim for an additional month beyond that. I dont see that that extra 
short delay is likely to have made a significant difference to his attitude about the PPI. 
So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful, and better information 
probably wouldnt have made a difference to whether or not Mr R took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman