DRN-1752289
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Click2Protect UK Limited mis-sold his alloy wheel repair insurance. 
What happened
Mr S bought a flagship car, he wanted to get additional insurance to protect his new car, so 
he contacted Click2protect. One of the policies he bought was alloy wheel repair insurance. 
Mr S contacted the insurer a few months later as one of the wheels needing repairing. The 
insurer turned down the claim as it said Mr Ss car had diamond cut wheels and those 
werent covered by the policy. Mr S then complained to the seller, Click2protect. He said 
they should have known his wheels were diamond cut because hed bought a flag ship car 
and told him they werent covered. Mr S said if hed known the policy didnt cover diamond 
cut wheels then he wouldnt have bought it. 
Click2protect reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said they provided Mr S with 
clear information about the policy to enable him to decide whether it was suitable before it 
was sold. The insurer has also refunded the cost of the policy to Mr S, minus a £20 admin 
fee. Mr S wasnt happy with the response, so he brought his complaint here. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She found that 
the policy was sold on a non-advised basis and that Mr S had been given clear, fair and not 
misleading information. Mr S didnt agree, he said he should have been told he wouldnt be 
covered before the policy was sold. 
As Mr S didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Click2protect sold Mr S his policy over the phone in a non-advised sale. This means when it 
sold the policy it needed to provide him with information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading to enable him to decide whether it was suitable.
Ive not been able to listen to the original call  Mr S made when he enquired about the policy 
as its no longer available. But I have seen the sales documentation sent to Mr S after this 
call and before he took the policy out. Ive also listened to the call where Mr S called up after 
receiving the documents and purchased the policy. 
Mr S agrees the documentation sent to him is clear that his wheels wont be covered, but 
says Click2protect should have told him his wheels wouldnt be covered during the sales 
process. I understand Mr Ss frustration that he wasnt told his particular wheels wouldnt 
been covered, but as this policy was sold on a non-advised basis and Click2protect gave 
information which was clear, fair and not misleading Im not persuaded they have done 
anything wrong. Click2protect also needed to ensure any significant terms were brought to 
Mr Ss attention. 
I think this term is significant as it limits the cover under the policy, Ive therefore looked to 
see whether it was brought to Mr Ss attention before the policy was sold. The Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID), which outlines the key features of the policy, says 
under What is not insured  Alloy wheels that are diamond cut, chrome effect, or split rim 
construction. This term was also listed in the e-mail sent to Mr S before he purchased the 
policy. Because of this Im satisfied Click2protect did enough to bring this term to Mr Ss 
attention before the policy was sold. 
In the call after Mr S was sent the documents, and before the policy started, he was also 
asked are you happy with how all the insurances work? to which he replied yes. As 
Click2protect provided information which was clear fair and not misleading and listed this 
term in the IPID and the e-mail sent to Mr S, Im not persuaded theyve done anything 
wrong. So I wont be instructing them to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020. 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman