DRN-3163932
The complaint
Mr B complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided a loan to Mr B as follows: 
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableAPR
11/01/2020 £390 18
months£89.14 £1,604.52 1,013.3%
Mr B told us that when Loans 2 Go provided the loan he already had a large number of 
payday loans and that checks should have shown that his financial situation was dire. He 
also complained that the interest rate on this loan was extortionate and far higher than the 
industry norm. Mr B said he was spiralling into unaffordable debt at the time and he has 
been suffering continuous stress as a result of worrying about his financial situation.
In its final response letter Loans 2 Go didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr B brought his 
complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Loans 2 Go should have 
provided Mr B with the loan as it shouldve found out about the extent of his other lending 
and also seen that his credit spending represented a significant proportion of his monthly 
income and wasnt sustainably affordable for him. 
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It mainly said that there was no 
need to conduct further checks beyond those it did and it was satisfied with the level of 
checks carried out by Loans 2 Go prior to approving the loan application  which showed the 
loan was affordable.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr B would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Loans 2 Go 
make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
I have reviewed the information Loans 2 Go gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. It 
did some background checks and verified that Mr Bs minimum income was approximately 
£3,194 monthly. After looking at the credit report information it gathered, Loans 2 Go 
increased the overall amount Mr B had said he was spending each month and allowed for a 
total monthly expenditure figure of around £2,784. It also added a buffer of 10% of Mr Bs 
verified expenditure in order to allow for fluctuations in his monthly income or outgoings. 
Relying on this information, Loans 2 Go said that the contractual loan repayment for this loan 
should have been affordable. And it didnt think that anything it saw on its credit checks 
suggested otherwise. 
But, like our adjudicator, I think its fair to say that the credit checks Loans 2 Go did showed 
clear signs that Mr B might already be financially over-stretched and having trouble 
managing money problems. 
Loans 2 Go could see that whilst he appeared to have just two live payday loan accounts 
with a combined balance of £534, he had used practically all the available credit offered on 
his credit cards and he also had other finance agreements. It also looked like Mr B had been a month in arrears on his repayments to another high cost lender just a couple of months 
earlier. It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history 
showing other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But I think Loans 2 Go should have been concerned also to see that within the last eight 
months or so another one of Mr Bs credit card accounts had defaulted after his payments 
slipped 6 months into arrears. The balance outstanding was £14,792 and given the relatively 
recent default date, I dont think this was something that Loans 2 Go should have discounted 
 at least, not without finding out more about the circumstances that led to the payment 
problems and whether the lender might be actively pursuing Mr B for this debt as this was 
information that could impact on Loans 2 Gos affordability assessment fort his loan.
So it needed to carry out further and more in-depth checks to gain a proper understanding of 
Mr Bs financial situation to ensure it didnt provide a loan if he wasnt in a position to 
sustainably afford the loan repayments.
I dont think its checks were proportionate. So I've thought about what a proportionate check 
would likely have revealed to Loans 2 Go.   
Mr B has provided us with copies of his bank statements to help me understand what better 
checks might have shown to Loans 2 Go at that time. And I have considered this information 
in light of what Ive set out above. Of course, different checks might show different things. 
But I think if Loans 2 Go had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think 
its likely it would have discovered more about Mr Bs financial position.
In addition to what it knew about his existing use of credit and the extent of his indebtedness, 
Mr Bs bank statements show that in the weeks running up to him applying for this loan he 
was paying for loans taken out with at least eleven other providers of payday loans and high 
cost unsecured lending. Had Loans 2 Go seen this information, as I think it shouldve done, it 
shouldve realised that Mr B was in serious financial difficulty, essentially borrowing from one 
lender to pay another  and in that context his loan application to Loans 2 Go looked like a 
continuation of that same borrowing pattern.  
Also bearing in mind that the loan purpose wasnt stated I dont think Loans 2 Go wouldve 
had any reason to think that this loan wouldnt simply add to Mr Bs overall indebtedness. So 
I think Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided the loan for this reason.    
Looking at his bank statement for the month prior to him taking out this loan, Mr B paid more 
than £1,500 just to service his main unsecured credit debts  and he borrowed at least £950 
in new loans. 
I think that the amount Mr B was already spending on his existing credit commitments was 
such a significant proportion of his take home pay it was a clear indication that Mr B was, in 
reality, already experiencing financial difficulty. I think Loans 2 Go ought reasonably to have 
been aware that taking further, costly lending was unlikely to help Mr B. 
The monthly repayments for this loan meant he would likely need to use almost half of his 
pay just to keep up with all his monthly repayments owed to creditors. 
Thinking about all of this information, I dont think Loans 2 Go could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mr B wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall debts. And it shouldve realised that maintaining this level of debt 
wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr B. 
So, I am planning on upholding Mr Bs complaint that he should not have been given the 
loan.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way. Ive thought about what Mr B has said about 
the high cost of the loan. I think there was a large amount of interest payable on the loan and 
I can appreciate that Mr B might now feel this was unfair. But I think its fair to say that the 
loan agreement set out reasonably clearly both what the interest rate was and how much he 
would have to pay if the loan ran to term. Interest could be waived if he closed the loan and 
he received a discount for early settlement. Taking everything into account, I think Mr B was 
aware he was taking a high cost loan on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. So 
I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to award any additional 
redress. 
But taking everything into account, I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to provide 
the loan to Mr B. And as Mr B has been further indebted with an expensive loan that he 
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 
Loans 2 Go did wrong. So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
I hope that setting out my reasons as I've done helps explain more clearly why its fair and 
reasonable to uphold this complaint and I invite Loans 2 Go to reconsider its position in light 
of what I've said above.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from Mr B.
Loans 2 Go has confirmed that it has nothing further to add and will await my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Loans 2 Go for responding to my provisional decision. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr B shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr B having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr B keeping in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he needs further time to pay and Loans 2 
Go shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-
off.
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file regarding this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman