DRN-2332429
complaint
Mr W and Ms M says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr W and Ms M bought the policy in 2004 at the same time as taking out a loan. They 
applied for the loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The loan was repayable over a 288 month term. The monthly loan repayment was £163 with 
the PPI costing an additional £16.91 making the total monthly repayment £179.91. The 
policy didnt attract interest and could be cancelled by either party with 30 days notice 
without penalty. 
The policy provided cover for Mr W only for accident, sickness and unemployment subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr W and Ms Ms monthly loan 
repayment for up to 60 months in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 in the 
event of unemployment. 
At the time, Mr W was employed as a farm worker. He has told us he was entitled to only 
statutory sick pay provided by his employer and didnt have any other means of repaying 
their loan should he be unable to work.  Mr W has said he was in good health at the time of 
the sale but did suffer an injury some years before the sale.  
Ms M was not covered by the policy. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2006. 
Mr W and Ms Ms representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr W and Ms Ms representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr W and Ms M 
wouldnt have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr W and Ms 
Ms representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Halifax should have 
told Mr W and Ms M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr W and Ms 
M and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The information Mr W and Ms M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant this was untrue;
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr W and Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr W and Ms Ms. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr W and Ms Ms 
complaint
This sale took place in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005. So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses 
and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2006. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC). It published the GISC code, which set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including PPI. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr W and Ms Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mr W and Ms Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
- If Halifax gave advice, whether it advised Mr W and Ms M with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given 
their needs and circumstances. 
- Whether Halifax gave Mr W and Ms M sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W 
and Ms M, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W and Ms M 
suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and Ms M 
and Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr W and Ms Ms complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr W and Ms M know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr W and Ms Ds application form and can see this had a section for 
customers to select PPI. Customers could either sign in a Yes box if they wanted PPI, or 
they could sign in a No box if they didnt want it. Mr W has signed in the Yes box  and I 
think its clear that only Mr W would be covered on this form. 
Mr W then went on to sign a credit agreement that Halifax prepared. This has an electronic X 
placed in the box requesting PPI cover  which I think likely represents the answer that he 
previously gave in the application form. This also sets out the monthly cost and benefit  the 
PPI was subsequently set up. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr W and Ms M knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says that advice was provided during this sale. Mr W and Ms M disagree. Looking at 
what happened when Halifax sold Mr W and Ms M the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided 
advice. I say this because this sale was made in a branch and from what Ive seen of sales 
made in branch, with an adviser present, they were usually advised. 
This means Halifax had to advise Mr W and Ms M with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr W and Ms M. It seems Mr W and Ms M cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited 
information about Mr W and Ms Ms financial circumstances, but there is no specific 
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr W (as the policyholder) 
would have been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have 
meant the policy did not fully meet their needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest 
Halifax considered whether Mr W had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr W and Ms M given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr W and Ms M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
- Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.- Mr W and Ms M had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr W and Ms Ms 
ability to continue to meet their loan repayments would have been put under strain if 
Mr W was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for statutory 
sick pay he says he would have been entitled to.
- The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Mr W and Ms M.
- The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mr W and Ms M. 
There was nothing about Mr Ws employment or occupation which would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr W has told 
us about an injury he suffered a significant number of years before the sale. But he 
said he had no long-term effects following this injury, and he was healthy at the time 
of sale. So, I dont think this injury made the policy unsuitable. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing advice, Halifax gave Mr W and Ms M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make an informed decision about whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr W and Ms M were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if 
Mr W was unable to work through accident, sickness and disability) and of the approximate 
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr W and Ms M would 
have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the 
premium might be. 
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about the exclusions or 
limitations when Mr W and Ms M agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties representations about what happened, while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr W and Ms M Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Mr W and Ms M. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr W and 
Ms M all of the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about 
whether to follow the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr W and Ms Ms representative has raised 
a number of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr W and 
Ms Ms. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr W and Ms Ms representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather 
than the insurer. - The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mr W and Ms M about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained the significance of them to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr W and Ms Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer 
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr W and Ms M has suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
What effect did Halifaxs shortcomings have on Mr W and Ms M? To what extent did 
Mr W and Ms M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr W and 
Ms M. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
W and Ms M suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr W and Ms M would have still taken out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended was suitable for Mr W and Ms M, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Mr W and Ms M has suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had explained things 
properly, Mr W and Ms M would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken 
out the policy in any event.
Mr W and Ms M say they wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be 
the case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before deciding whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr W and Ms M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax advised them that there was a 
suitable product they could buy that would protect their loan payments in the event Mr W 
was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about Mr W and Ms Ms circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
But the information about aspects of the policy, such as the cost, benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr W and Ms M knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told them the exact premium at the point Mr W and Ms M applied for the policy. Having said that, Mr W and Ms M were told the cost 
before the policy started as it was set out in the credit agreement subsequently prepared. 
They also paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were significantly at odds 
with their expectations at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with 
Halifax at the time or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr W and Ms M would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded Halifax made clear exactly what Mr W and Ms M would get 
back in return in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr W and 
Ms Ms expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their loan repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually 
did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W and Ms M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions and/or symptoms, whether 
diagnosed or not, that Mr W consulted a doctor about during the 12 months before 
the start date which recurs within 12 months of the start date of the policy, or 
about chronic conditions he knew about before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have caused 
Mr W and Ms M pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W and Ms M from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence about Mr W and Ms Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr W was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr W says he had an injury some 
years before the policy was taken out, I dont think better information about this exclusion 
would have put him off agreeing to it. I say this because he says he didnt suffer any long-
term effects from the injury and he was in good health at the time of sale. So, I dont think he 
would have envisaged that this would be the main reason hed need to make a claim.
And I havent seen any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were more onerous than Mr W and 
Ms M might reasonably have expected  notwithstanding what Ive said above about his 
health. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim. And while this limitation might 
have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr W and Ms M from 
taking out the policy, Mr W and Ms M, in their circumstances, still had some good reasons to 
take it out.
If Mr W and Ms M had known Mr W could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to 
do his job, or a similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about what they would do. 
And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although given Mr W and Ms Ms 
circumstances  and the limited other means he had of making their repayment if he couldnt 
work, on balance, I still think they would have been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr W and Ms M would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage the consequences were Mr W made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr W and Ms M would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr W and Ms Ms representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr W and Ms M would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr W and Ms 
Ms circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr W 
and Ms M found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W and Ms M believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed 
to give proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W and Ms M in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should pay Mr W and Ms M compensation, as that would 
put their in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im aware that Mr W and Ms M think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall information Halifax gave Mr W and Ms M, in 
the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have met in 2004 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr W and Ms Ms representative says a court might 
take if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr W and Ms M and 
about the remedy a court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr W and Ms M in a better position than if 
everything had happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman