DRN-3330577
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC. He isnt happy about payments that 
were made from his bank account that he says he didnt authorise and wants a refund. 
What happened
Mr B approached a branch of Barclays after he realised a regular payment for £86 was being 
taken out of his account which he hadnt authorised. Barclays bank couldnt find any such 
payment but as Mr B also raised a query about paying for a tech pack with his account it 
looked into this for him.
But when Barclays looked into this it was satisfied that the tech pack had been added 
correctly and had been requested by Mr B. The account fee was cancelled but it didnt 
refund any of the premiums made. As Mr B remained unhappy he complained to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She looked at Mr 
Bs bank statements and couldnt see any payments for £86. And thought the tech pack 
was clearly requested online by Mr B and that details about the account, its benefits and 
costs were sent to Mr B. So, she didnt think Barclays had acted unreasonably or the 
account had been mis-sold.
As Mr B didnt agree, maintaining that he didnt set up the package account, the matter has 
been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B, but Ill explain why.
Ive also looked at Mr Bs bank statements, just as our investigator and Barclays did, and I 
havent seen any evidence of a payment of £86 either so I cant say Barclays has done 
anything wrong here. And I know Mr B says that he didnt set the account up online, but the 
information provided by Barclays suggests the pack was added back in 2017 and applied for 
online. 
Indeed, information about the account allowing Mr B time to cancel the policy was sent to 
him in the post. And the payment for the account was clearly highlighted on his statements 
and he was sent yearly details about the amount he was charged for the account and the 
general benefits of the account, including details about how to make claims if necessary. So, 
even if Mr B didnt apply online or realise what he was doing at the time of application I think 
he should have known about the account and costs from the other information Barclays sent.
When our investigator told Mr B how the account was set up, online, Mr B suggested that 
this wasnt him and highlighted that he isnt very good with computers. He went on to 
suggest that someone else in his house must have set up the account. While this is possible 
I havent seen any evidence of this or any report of this to the police. And that person would 
have to know all Mr Bs personal and bank security details to do this which would have had 
to come from Mr B.
However, as outlined above, I think Barclays made Mr B aware of the tech pack in a 
number of other ways. And he should have known a payment was taken from his bank 
account for the tech pack as it was clearly outlined on his bank statements. So, I think Mr B 
ought to have been aware and approached Barclays about this if he didnt want the account.
Given all of this, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong and I wont be asking it to refund 
his premiums. I say this as I havent seen any evidence that the policy was mis-sold or any 
evidence that Mr B didnt take out the account. Plus, Mr B had use of the account benefits 
throughout the period it was in place and Barclays cancelled the tech pack as soon as Mr B 
approached them about this. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman