DRN-2466957
The complaint
Miss R is complaints about how Leeds Building Society (Leeds) handled her request to
change her mortgage.
What happened
Miss R had a buy-to-let mortgage for a property she intended to let but her plans changed,
and she decided to live in the property herself. She says she approached Leeds in or around
2017 to make changes to her mortgage. In September 2018, Miss R applied for a residential
repayment mortgage with a fixed interest rate. Miss R was approved for the mortgage and
asked to send in some documentation to evidence her ability to repay the mortgage.
Miss R believes she provided all the necessary paperwork in October 2018 and, when she
didnt hear anything, assumed it had all gone through. Leeds say it didnt receive some of
the paperwork it requested and wrote to her to ask for this on 30 October 2018. As it didnt
receive any further communication, it didnt take any further action and the mortgage stayed
on the more expensive buy-to-let rate.
Miss R says she went into the branch on a few occasions and was told she was still on the
buy-to-let rate but was assured that this would be sorted out. Miss R was able to change her
mortgage around September 2019. Leeds says it has no record of her visiting the branch
before August 2018 and doesnt believe it has made a mistake as Miss R didnt provide the
evidence it needed. But it has offered to backdate the current rate for three months as a
gesture of goodwill. Miss R doesnt agree so the complaint was brought to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 November 2020 letting both parties know that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint. In it I said:
Miss R says she provided Leeds with the evidence it requested but I think its likely she
overlooked some of the items that were needed  specifically bank statements. I have seen
the form that was sent to the mortgage team, which had tick boxes setting out the items she
had attached  Miss R had only ticked payslips. The box for bank statements is unticked and
there were no bank statements attached to the list of documents that were sent over. The
email from the member of staff at the branch also specifies that the items he was sending
over were payslips. So while Miss R says she gave her bank statements to the branch, Im
not satisfied thats the case based on all the evidence Ive seen.
Miss R says she went in to branch to resolve this issue on several occasions, but I havent
seen any evidence of that. It is clear that Miss R carries out her banking in branch, but I have
also seen that Leeds keeps a record of each time any member of staff accesses an account
 and there is no record of any member of staff accessing her mortgage account to see what
was happening until later in 2019. So while I dont doubt that Miss R visited the branch in this
time, Im not satisfied that she raised concerns about her mortgage account with Leeds
during that time.
Having said that, it seems clear to me that Miss R made it clear to Leeds that she had a buy-
to-let mortgage and was living in the property  so Leeds was aware that her mortgage
wasnt suitable for her. While I can see that it wrote to her  and it isnt Leeds fault if the
letter got lost in the post  I do think that it could have done more to ensure that Miss R had
the correct type of mortgage once it became aware of her circumstances.
Leeds has already offered to refund the difference in interest for three months  the time
between when Miss Rs mortgage rate would have changed and when she received her first
annual mortgage statement. I have considered that Leeds didnt do everything it could have
to ensure Miss R had the correct type of mortgage. But I also think that Leeds had made it
clear what information it needed in order to change her mortgage and it should have been
clear to Miss R in February 2019 when she received her mortgage statement that her
mortgage interest rate hadnt changed. So taking all of this into account, I think the offer
made by Leeds is a fair and reasonable offer which reflects the impact of its error.
Leeds didnt respond to my provisional decision and Miss R didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. In short, she said that she believes she submitted bank statements and that Leeds 
has previously told her it received some of these  so she believes the error was made by 
Leeds in copying them. And Miss R also said she went into branch to query her mortgage on 
three occasions where she was taken into a separate room to discuss her concerns with 
another department over the telephone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the points Miss R has raised, I am still of this opinion that Leeds has 
done enough in regards to her complaint.
Miss R says she definitely provided her bank statements and that Leeds has previously 
confirmed it received some of this  but I havent seen any evidence of this. Lloyds asked for 
one bank statement covering a 90-day period and the only documentation on record is a 
payslip. There isnt any evidence that part of a statement was submitted. And if the 
document had been double sided as Miss R suggests, then I would have expected some of 
the pages of the statement to be included. But that isnt the case here, rather the entire bank 
statement is missing from the information provided. So from the evidence I have, I think its 
likely that she didnt provide it with that information and only provided it with her payslips.
Miss R has also said that she went to branch on three separate occasions and that she was 
told the branch couldnt help and therefore she was taken into a separate room and asked to 
call the mortgage department while a member of staff was present. But, even ignoring that 
there are no records of this, it doesnt change my opinion. I say that because I have already 
agreed that Leeds should have done more to change her mortgage to a residential mortgage 
sooner than it did as it was made aware that she wasnt letting out the property. But I also 
have to consider that it was waiting for a bank statement from Miss R for some of this time.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss R and that she remains unhappy with 
Leeds actions  and I agree with her that Leeds could have done more to change the type 
of mortgage she held to a residential one when it became aware of her situation. But, from 
the evidence I have seen, I also think its likely that Miss R overlooked some of the 
documents that Leeds requested and didnt provide it with bank statements  so based on 
that, I think its offer to refund three months interest is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint so I wont be asking Leeds to do anything further here.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman