DRN-3404640
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M (Mr M is represented), complain that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to them irresponsibly. For ease I will refer to the two complainants as 
Mr and Mrs M.
What happened
Using information gathered from Everyday Lendings records, here is a brief table of the 
approved loans. 
Loan Date taken Total 
AmountTerm Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
lent net of 
interestDate repaid
1 16/04/15 £4,734.72 24
months£197.28 £2,000.00 20/11/15  loan 2 
capital used to 
repay balance
2 20/11/15 £10,821.96 36
months£300.61 £4,000.00 February 2017
3 February 
2017£5,000 withdrawn
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and considered that Everyday Lending 
needed to put things right for Mr and Mrs M in relation to loan 2. No mention was made of 
loan 3 and it had been withdrawn.
Mr and Mrs M replied to say that they had paid off loan 2. They did not make any additional 
comment about the adjudicators view or the outcome and have sent no additional evidence. 
Everyday Lending disagreed with our adjudicators view about loan 2 and said that the 
defaults referred to were historic and Mrs Ms bank statements it had reviewed showed a 
well run account with no indication of financial difficulty. 
Everyday Lending went on to say: 
Therefore I do not believe that there is sufficient evidence to suggest that because 
both customers were paying approximately 36% (as per your calculations) of their 
income towards creditors means this loan was irresponsibly lent or unaffordable to 
them as our affordability assessment demonstrates that they had significant 
disposable income.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Everyday Lending completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr and Mrs M would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those 
checks have shown that Mr and Mrs M wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Everyday Lending  did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr and Mrs M and that they have lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair 
compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr and Mrs Ms ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Mr and Mrs M. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments 
to the loan wouldnt cause Mr and Mrs M them undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr and 
Mrs M Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of several factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Having reviewed the complaint, Mr and Mrs Ms reaction to our adjudicators opinion 
suggests to me that they do not disagree with it. Even if they did disagree with the outcome 
on loan 1 (non-uphold) I have reviewed what it was that Everyday Lending did before it approved loan 1. I think that Everyday Lending did proportionate checks and as new 
customers to Everyday Lending Id not expect it to have done more. So, I do not uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about loan 1. 
As for loan 2, a great deal had altered between the approval of loan 1 and the approach to 
Everyday Lending for additional credit in November 2015. Using Everyday Lendings own 
records, I have seen that Mr and Mrs M both had obtained a great deal more credit and debt 
commitments in the short time between the loan 1 approval and needing loan 2. And 
Everyday Lending knew this.
Added to which, the loan 2 repayment obligation was for three years, were higher 
repayments each month and the overall amount to be repaid was significant at around 
£10,800. So, I think a full financial review ought to have been carried out before approving 
loan 2. It seems likely that Everyday Lending did that, and one of the documents which has 
showed it knew a great deal about the Mr and Mrs Ms financial situation was the 
consolidation table prepared as it was considering their loan 2 application. Mr and Mrs M 
had a lot of outstanding home credit and unsecured loans. Everyday Lending sent cheques 
to some of their creditors to clear some debt and following on from that the regular 
repayments were reduced for Mr and Mrs M. 
However, that does not take account of the detail, which was that even after the debt 
consolidation, and including the new loan repayment of just over £300 a month, then the 
total amount they jointly would have to have paid a month was about £750. 
This was a high figure and Mr Ms salary had reduced. I can see from his payslips (records 
of which Everyday Lending has provided to us) that his hours had reduced from around 50 
or 51 hours each week in April 2015 to around 35 or 37 each week in November 2015.  
Therefore, Mr M had a correspondingly lower wage after tax each week. Everyday Lending 
had used their joint income as being a figure of around £2,086 (less than for loan 1). 
Everyday Lending had calculated their living expenses for loan 2 as being figures of around 
£730 plus their rental costs of £490 which comes to around £1,280. Even on their own 
figures, plus the obvious repayment amounts still required to their remaining creditors which 
I have added up to be around £750 in a month, then Mr and Mrs M would have been left with 
around £116 after all their repayments and living costs and rent had been accounted for. For 
a family with young children I consider this to have been too low a left over figure. 
Especially considering that the debt commitment was for 36 months. 
And even leaving this to one side, the percentage of their joint income on the loan was high 
at 36% and I disagree with Everyday Lending when it says they had plenty of disposable 
income. The salary drop by Mr M in the short few months between April 2015 and November 
2015 ought to have been a concern. Added to which the large increase in their joint debt 
level in those same few months ought to have been an alert to Everyday Lending. 
I have considered Everyday Lendings submission to us recently and I do not consider it 
makes logical sense. The historic defaults may not have made a difference to the Everyday 
Lending decision. A high level of repayment was required for loan 2 plus Everyday Lending 
knew all of Mr and Mrs Ms other debts even after the debt consolidation using the loan 2 
capital. 
These points, together with my use of the figures Everyday Lending had supplied to us to 
calculate that Mr and Mrs M would have been left with a low figure after paying everything off 
leads me to conclude that Mr and Mrs M were unlikely able to afford loan 2 comfortably and 
without being at risk of being in undue difficulty or facing significant adverse consequences.I note that even though Mr and Mrs M had told Everyday Lending at loan 2 that they never 
wanted to take home credit loans again, when they did return to Everyday Lending for loan 3 
they had acquired further home credit loans. This would not, obviously, have been relevant 
to the loan 2 approval decision, but it demonstrates that Mr and Mrs M did tend to obtain 
credit regularly. 
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about loan 2. 
Loan 3 was arranged and used to repay the loan 2 balance. I have seen from Everyday 
Lending account notes that Mr M received some money from a family member and paid 
back all he owed and incurred no interest. So, there was no loss in relation to this loan and 
I have not assessed it for irresponsible lending. 
Putting things right
Everyday Lending needs to do as follows:
refund all interest and charges Mr and Mrs M paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative payment information about loan 2 from Mr and Mrs Ms credit 
files;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in part and I direct that Everyday 
Lending Limited does as I have outlined above in the putting things right part of my 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman