DRN-1901870
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC, who were trading at the time as Egg, mis-sold 
him the PPI. For simplicity, Ill refer to the business as Egg for much of this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Mr M has raised a number of complaint points. Ive read and considered all the evidence on 
the file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened given 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below.
I think Egg made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out 
 although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this because Ive considered 
what we know about how Egg sold PPI over the internet around this time and Ive seen 
internet screenshots that Egg say are representative of what Mr M would have seen at the 
time of applying for PPI. To get the cover Mr M would have had to select it and he would 
have had a choice about doing that. So it seems most likely that Mr M did choose it and did 
so knowing he had a choice to do so.    
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But he chose to take out the PPI - 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time it seems he was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Ive considered that whilst Mr Ms initial 
sick pay was good, it dropped significantly after six months, so he may have struggled. Mr M 
told us he had no sick pay such that he might have had to rely on his family or his partner for 
help in making his card repayments if he was too ill to work or lost his job. This policy could 
have paid out for up to 12 months if he was too ill to work, or if Mr M lost his job. And that 
might have been helpful and reduced his reliance on whatever help his family or partner may have been in a position to offer him. So I think the policy would have been useful to him if 
something went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Barclays Bank 
UK PLC doesnt need to refund everything Mr M paid for it. 
But Barclays Bank UK PLC has already offered to give Mr M back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13July2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman