DRN-1338290
 
The complaint
Mrs B says that Nationwide Building Society (NBS) mis-sold her a regular premium 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1991 Mrs B took out a mortgage with NBS. Taking a PPI policy to cover her mortgage 
repayments in the event of accident or sickness and unemployment was a condition of the 
mortgage. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought there wasnt 
enough information to show that NBS hadnt made it clear the policy was a condition of the 
mortgage and that it wouldve provided a useful benefit.
Mrs B disagrees. She says the terms and conditions werent made clear and she had no 
need for the policy. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of thus complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
NBS have told us that having PPI was a condition of the mortgage where the lending was 
more than 95% of  the value of the property. I think its fair to say that it was not uncommon 
for businesses to sell mortgages with a condition that PPI was taken. This is not unfair  it is 
up to the business to decide on what basis they wish to lend to customers. And it is up to the 
customer to decide if they are happy with those the terms and conditions of lending  if they 
are not they are free to go elsewhere.
That being said NBS should have made Mrs B aware that PPI was a condition of the 
mortgage. Understandably due to the passage of time NBS no longer has any of the 
mortgage documentation from Mrs Bs sale. So Ive had make my decision based on what 
information I have and what I think is more likely to have happened. 
The mortgage was taken out during a meeting and because the PPI was a condition of the 
lending I think its likely this was discussed and wouldve been on the mortgage agreement 
which Id expect Mrs B to have read before signing. I also think the benefits of having PPI 
wouldve been discussed as it provided important cover for one of the biggest financial 
commitments one can make during their lifetime. So I think Mrs B wouldve understood she had to take PPI as part of her mortgage with NBS though I can understand given the amount 
of time that has past why she might not remember this.
Ive seen a copy of the type of mortgage statement NBS sent annually to Mrs B. On it I can 
see that the monthly mortgage payment is broken down into three components  mortgage, 
property insurance and PPI. I think its likely Mrs B wouldve seen at least one of her 
mortgage statements and understood she was paying for PPI as part of her mortgage 
package. And I think if she hadnt understood the PPI condition of the mortgage she 
wouldve questioned why it was on her statement.  
From what we know of NBS PPI sales they were generally on a non-advised basis. And I 
havent seen anything from this sale to make me think it was any different here. What this 
means is that NBS didnt recommend PPI to Mrs B, it just gave her information about PPI. 
This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she 
could make an informed choice about buying PPI. 
Given the length of time that has passed since the sale, I dont know if NBS did give all the 
information as it shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve made a difference because I think 
Mrs B wouldve still taken mortgage with PPI if she was given all the proper information. I 
say this because at the time of the sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like Mrs B wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
Mrs B says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and didnt need the policy. 
But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits covered her for potentially 
longer if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness or if she lost her job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs B in her circumstances 
especially considering she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think 
she wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs B. 
 
This means Mrs B isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing by NBS.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Caroline DaviesOmbudsman