DRN-1708116
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a loan in 1997. The loan was 
jointly held. Neither party has much information about the policy, but it seems that only Mr H 
was covered for the PPI. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, and so the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
After reviewing all the information provided in this case, I do not intend upholding Mr and Mrs 
Hs complaint. I explain why below.
Ive first looked at whether Nationwide gained Mr and Mrs Hs consent and whether it made 
clear to Mr and Mrs H that the policy was optional. It is maybe not surprising that neither 
party has been able to provide the actual credit agreement from the sale, considering that 
these events happened over 23 years ago. And Nationwide has told us that due to the time 
that has passed, it is not able to say whether the loan was secured or unsecured. However, 
Nationwide has provided samples of the sort of credit agreements that Mr and Mrs H would 
have signed in either event. I think its more likely than not Mr and Mrs H would have signed 
an agreement like these to get their loan funds.
Both credit agreements describe the PPI as Optional Credit Insurance and show the 
monthly cost for it. So having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, 
I think its more likely that Nationwide wouldve made Mr and Mrs H aware that the PPI was 
optional and that they chose to take it, even though Mr and Mrs H may not remember that 
now, many years later. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs H got the information they needed to 
decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it seems Mr H was 
eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or 
limitations to the PPI cover. And Ive considered that whilst Mr H told us his initial sick pay was good, it dropped 
significantly after six months, such that they may have needed to rely on some savings they 
said they had or sold their cars. Mr and Mrs H told us they werent sure exactly how much 
the savings amounted to, but they thought the savings were through a share save scheme 
through Mr H's employer and that they were substantial. Mr and Mrs H told us they have no 
evidence to support this testimony. In any event, it seems that Mr and Mrs H chose to 
protect any savings they may have had by not using them to reduce the loan they were 
taking, or to have had no further loan at all. 
This PPI policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr H was too ill to work (for up to 24 
months if the loan was secured) and would have paid out in addition to whatever sick pay he 
had. And the policy would have further protected their savings and reduced their need to 
possibly sell their cars. And it would have provided some financial protection in the event Mr 
H lost his job. 
So thinking about this and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan with 
a business that also provides your mortgage, I think the policy could have been useful for Mr 
and Mrs H if something went wrong.
So I dont think that better or more information would have put Mr and Mrs H off the policy. 
So, I don't think Mr and Mrs H lost out as a result of anything Nationwide might have done 
wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, and I make no 
award against Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman