DRN-4321832
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr W was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Close Brothers. He paid a deposit of £447.25, and the agreement was for £5,497.75 
over 60 months; with monthly payments of £131.75. At the time of supply, the car was 
around 11 and a half years old and had done around 112,000 miles.
The car broke down on 29 December 2022, due to issues with the timing chain and the 
failure of the head gasket. Mr W complained to Close Brothers, and they arranged for the car 
to be inspected by an independent engineer. In April 2023, following this inspection, Close 
Brothers agreed to repair the car. And they paid Mr W £150 compensation for the trouble 
and upset hed been caused.
On 19 May 2023, Mr W was advised the car was repaired and ready for collection. He 
attempted to collect the car on 22 May 2023, but there were still faults present. Close 
Brothers arranged for the independent engineer to reinspect the car, and, on 6 July 2023, 
they agreed Mr W was able to reject the car.
Close Brothers arranged for the car to be collected, and refunded five payments to Mr W, as 
well as reimbursing him for five months of road tax and car insurance payments - a total of 
£1,015.55. Mr W wasnt happy with the amount hed received, and he brought his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that Close Brothers acted reasonably by allowing Mr W to reject the 
car. But he didnt think theyd done enough to put things right. The investigator said Mr W 
was without the car from when it broke down on 29 December 2022, to when it was collected 
by Close Brothers in early July 2023. So, he thought Close Brothers should refund a total of 
six payments, not just the five they had. But, as Mr W had an obligation to keep the car 
taxed and insured, he didnt think they should pay anything more towards these costs.
The investigator also said that Close Brothers should refund the deposit Mr W paid, pay 
statutory interest on the refunds, and increase the compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to a total of £300.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Close Brothers had since refunded him 
an additional £861.23 and paid him an additional £250 compensation, taking the total to 
£400. However, he didnt think that this was sufficient to compensate him for the stress and 
inconvenience hed been caused for not having use of the car for six months. 
The investigator reissued their view, saying that the remedy Close Brothers had put in place 
was sufficient, and he didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr W still didnt agree 
that the £400 element of this was sufficient, and hes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr W was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Close 
Brothers are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Close Brothers can show otherwise. But, where a fault is 
identified after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr W to show it was present 
when the car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr W took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right.
In this instance, its not disputed there was a problem with the car, nor that this made it of an 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W. As such, Im satisfied that I dont need 
to consider the merits of this issue within my decision. Instead, Ill focus on what I think 
Close Brothers should do, if anything, to put things right.
In a situation like this, Id expect Close Brothers to allow Mr W to reject the car, which is what 
they did. Id also expect them to refund the deposit and any payments Mr W paid while he 
wasnt able to use the car, plus statutory interest.
The car wasnt able to be used from 29 December 2022, and rejection was agreed on 6 July 
2023. During this period, Mr W paid six payments totalling £790.50. He also paid a deposit of 
£447.25, meaning Close Brothers should refund him £1,237.75. Their actual refund was 
£1,876.78. However, its my understanding this refund also included what Mr W paid for road 
tax and car insurance, and £250 for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Based on what Ive seen, this means the amount of the deposit and payment refund 
(including interest) was £1,269.08. So, Im satisfied that Close Brothers have refunded the 
payments I wouldve expected them to refund and paid statutory interest on the refunds. As 
such, I wont be asking them to refund anything more.Ive noted that HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to take off tax from the 
statutory interest theyve paid to Mr W. They must give Mr W a certificate showing how much 
tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
Turning now to the amount paid by Close Brothers to compensate Mr W for the trouble and 
upset hed been caused. This was £400, paid in two payments - £150 in April 2023, and 
£250 after the car was collected in July 2023. Mr W doesnt think this is sufficient for six 
months of being without a car and having to rely upon alternate transportation. 
Mr W has referred to the information on our website in this matter, pointing out that we may 
make an award of between £300 and £750 where the impact of a mistake has caused 
considerable distress, upset and worry - and/or significant inconvenience or disruption that 
needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, the impact lasts over many weeks or 
months.
Every case is dealt with on its own merits, and the overall impact is taken into consideration 
when considering what, if any, award to make. As such, the information on our website is 
general guidance of what may be awarded and is not a rule that we are required to apply to 
every complaint.
Saying that, its clear from the facts of this case that Mr W was impacted over an extended 
period of months. However, Im satisfied that Close Brothers acted reasonably in this matter. 
They provided Mr W with his rights under the CRA  the right of repair and, when this repair 
failed, the right of rejection. Whats more, they obtained an opinion from an independent 
expert, at no cost to Mr W, at each stage in the process, and they followed the experts 
recommendations. So, with reference to the guidance Mr W has referred to, Im not satisfied 
that he was put to a lot of extra effort to sort things out. And this itself wouldve significantly 
reduced the impact on him.
In addition to this, by refunding the payments and interest, Close Brothers have mitigated 
any additional costs that Mr W mayve incurred in the use of alternate transportation. While 
this doesnt lessen how Mr W felt about the matter, or the impact on him, Im satisfied that 
these circumstances dont warrant the upper levels of the £300 to £750 range Mr W has 
referred to. 
Instead, Im satisfied that the £400 hes already been paid is reasonable when taking into 
consideration all the circumstances and is in line with what I wouldve directed had no award 
already been made. So, I see no compelling reason to increase the compensation, and I 
wont be asking Close Brothers to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Close Brothers Limited, but I 
wont be asking them to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman