DRN-2736188
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with Amtrust Europe Limiteds (Amtrust) handling of a claim she made 
under furniture insurance policy. 
What happened
In December 2020, Ms M noticed some damage to her sofas. It was found the damage had 
been caused by rats, and the result was the sofas were no longer comfortable. Ms M 
contacted Amtrust who told her the policy she had in place only covered sudden and single 
incidents of accidental damage. As the damage Ms M claimed for didnt meet these criteria, 
her claim was declined.
Unhappy with the response Ms M referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered what both sides had to say but didnt consider Amtrust had acted incorrectly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator.
Ms M contacted Amtrust to log a claim for damage caused to the inside of her sofa. Amtrust 
considered if the circumstances of the claim meant Ms M could claim for accidental damage 
under her policy. 
The relevant term of the policy sets out the intention of the policy is to provide cover for 
individual incidents of accidental staining and accidental damage.  Ive gone on to consider 
how the policy specifies accidental damage. It says:
Accidental Damage - in this Plan this means sudden and unintentional damage 
resulting in rips, punctures, scuffs, burns, chips or scratches to the external surface 
of the item
Ive considered the information provided, which is consistent in stating the damage identified 
to Ms Ms sofa in to the internal stuffing and structure. The policy only provides cover for 
damage caused to external surfaces. So, like our investigator, even if we were to conclude 
the damage was sudden, which it doesnt appear to be given the nature of the damage 
claimed for, I consider Amtrust has acted fairly in declining the claim. I say this because the 
policy only provides cover for damage to the external surfaces of the sofa, and the damage 
Ms M is claiming for is not to the external surfaces.
I realise my decision will be a disappointment to Ms M, and Im sorry for that. Im not 
intending to direct Amtrust to take any steps to settle Ms Ms claim.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman