DRN-4427935
The complaint
Mr G complains that Epayments Systems Ltd restricted his account, and withheld his funds. 
Hed like his funds returned and compensation for the impact. 
What happened
The facts which led to Mr G bringing his complaint to our service are well known to both
parties, so I wont be repeating them in full here.
In summary, Mr G had an Epayments account. On 11 February 2020 the regulator, the
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) placed limitations on Epayments. This meant Epayments
were unable to process any transactions until the limitations were lifted. And Mr G
couldnt access his money. The original restrictions were lifted on 23 February 2022 and
Epayments began the process of reviewing customers accounts and refunding customers.
Mr Gs funds have now been returned to him.
Mr G complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. 
He said Epayments were responsible for the limitations placed on them by the regulator and
they should compensate Mr G for the time he didnt have access to his funds. He awarded
Mr G 8% interest for the time he wasnt able to access his funds as well as £150 for the
distress of not having access to his account.
Mr G agreed with the view.
Epayments didnt accept and theyve put forward two offers to resolve Mr Gs complaint 
these include £250 compensation and 1% interest on the account balance from the day of
restriction to the day of return.
In summary they said:
They kept Mr G informed at every step of the restriction and continue to do so.
Mr Gs difficulty in accessing his funds was due to FCA's limitation on withdrawals 
from EPayments account balances.
They empathise with Mr Gs situation of not having access to funds and, therefore, 
have offered a compensation amount of 1% of his account balance from 
11 February 2020. And £150 compensation.
They cant release the funds, as per their Terms and Conditions, until KYC checks 
are passed. 
They are allowed to withhold funds as per their KYC processes and the terms and 
conditions of the account.
They dont pay interest on their accounts and to pay an award of interest theyd need 
to be satisfied that Mr G was going to more the money to an account where interest 
would have been earnt, or invested and generating a high return of 8%.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a regulated business Epayments have certain obligations which they must comply with. 
They are subject to regulation by the FCA. The FCA applied restrictions on Epayments for 
reasons widely publicised and also detailed on their company website. As a result, 
Epayments suspended their operations. This had a significant effect on Mr G. It meant that 
he wasnt able to access his funds for an extended period of time.
Once Epayments agreed to suspend their operations to carry out the work required of them 
by the FCA they werent able to return Mr Gs funds.
Epayments werent in a position to refund Mr Gs money whilst the restrictions applied. 
However,  the restrictions have since been removed and Mr Gs funds have now been 
released. Mr G shouldnt suffer a detriment because Epayments suspended its operations. 
Our investigator has said Mr G should be paid 8% interest for the period of time Mr G didnt 
have access to his funds and I agree. Epayments have suggested they shouldnt be held 
liable for the delays in being able to return Mr G his funds as this was due to restrictions 
placed on them by the FCA.
But I disagree. The reason why Epayments had to suspend their operations was due to 
failures on their part and it would be unfair for Mr G to be impacted because of this. As a 
consequence, Epayments should be held liable for the delays in Mr G not being able to 
access his funds. Epayments have argued that 1% interest for the time period the money 
was restricted is fair, considering they dont pay interest on the money in their accounts and 
8% should only be granted if Mr G was going to move the money to an interest paying 
account or have some very successful investments. Ive thought about Epayments 
argument, but I dont agree. I accept that Mr Gs account didnt pay interest, but I agree with 
our investigator that 8% interest is appropriate in Mr Gs case. I say this as Mr G was 
deprived of the use of his funds. He wasnt able to utilise them for day to day expenditure, 
transfer them to an interest paying account or invest them.
Putting things right
I therefore think Epayments should pay Mr G 8% simple interest for the period of time he 
didnt have access to his funds.
Our investigator also recommended Mr G is compensated £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr G suffered for his account being blocked for so long. I agree this is a fair 
amount and in line with our awards for similar cases.
In some cases, Epayments or their banking partner may charge currency conversion fees 
and commissions when refunding account balances. In Mr Gs case I dont think he shouldhave to pay any currency conversion fees or commissions for accessing the funds in his 
account. If Mr G has been charged any such fees or commissions, I require Epayments to 
refund these.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. I require Epayments Systems Ltd to:
Pay Mr G 8% simple interest on the money in his account, calculated from 
11 February 2020 to the date Epayments released the funds to Mr G. 
Pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If any currency conversion fees, or other fees/commissions are charged by
Epayments or their banking partner during the refund process, these should also be
refunded.
Epayments must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Epayments considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax
from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman