DRN-3806493
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined a claim under his home 
insurance policy. When I mention AXA, I also mean its contractors and suppliers.
What happened
Mr S has a home insurance policy with AXA covering his household buildings and contents.
In February 2022 Mr S found that some water had leaked into his property causing damage 
following stormy conditions in the week before. 
AXA sent out a surveyor in June who reported that the water had entered the property 
because of faulty design or workmanship, rather than as the result of a storm. AXA declined 
Mr Ss claim under its gradually operating causes exclusion which says:
Damage caused gradually by wear and tear; or failure to fix a known issue (e.g. a 
visible leak isnt fixed which causes further damage)
Mr S wasnt happy about this and he complained. AXA said there had been delays during 
the claims process, and it awarded Mr S £200 for these. Mr S has said he hasnt accepted or 
received this payment. 
AXA maintained that it had declined his claim fairly.
Mr S remained unhappy about his claim being declined and brought his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he agreed that 
there had been storm conditions around the time of the damage, but he thought AXA had 
acted fairly in declining the claim under the gradually operating causes exclusion. 
Mr S didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why as I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mr S. 
When considering storm damage, we ask three questions: 
1. Was there a storm on or around the date the damage occurred?
2. Is the damage typical of that caused by a storm? 
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no  the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered
Ive looked at the weather in the area at the time and Ive found that the wind speed was 
above 55mph and there was heavy rain. I think its fair to say that storm conditions existed at 
the time under the terms and conditions of AXAs policy wording which says:
Storm: A period of violent weather with wind speeds of at least 55mph, or rainfall of 
at least 25mm per hour, or snowfall of at least 30cm in 24-hours, or hail of such 
intensity that it damages hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Water ingress into a property is a typical result from a storm, so I am satisfied that the 
answer to the first two questions is yes.
It seems to me that AXAs position that the answer to the third question is no. It says that 
the damage appears to have been caused by an ongoing issue which the bad weather has 
highlighted. 
I can see that AXAs surveyor has reported on, and photographed, examples of what it says 
are the gradually operating causes. 
Failed grout and failed seals are usually caused over a prolonged period of time 
through the frost / thaw process and most likely cause is as a result of a lack of 
maintenance / wear and tear. vegetation / moss growth within the floor tiles impedes 
rain flow off the balcony and contains high moisture content which accelerates 
deterioration through the frost / thaw process and most likely cause is as a result of a 
lack of maintenance. The strong winds and rain have merely highlighted a pre-
existing problem.
The points raised by AXAs surveyor also mean that it refers to an exclusion for faulty design 
and workmanship in its final response to Mr S, and I can see theres a reference to previous 
repairs being made to the lead flashing.
For the answer to the third question to be yes, Mr S would need to show that the storm was 
the main cause of the damage and I dont think he has done this. In further correspondence, 
Mr S said that he requested that AXA send a structural engineer to inspect his property. He 
also says he was told by AXA that it would do this. AXA has provided evidence that its 
suppliers declined to send one out and sent the loss adjuster instead.
But AXA has said it was willing to consider a structural engineers report if Mr S engaged 
one to work on his behalf. I cant see that Mr S has done this, so Im not able to consider this 
further.
I think AXA has done enough to reasonably show that the Mr Ss property suffered water 
damage as a result of a lack of maintenance, wear and tear and poorly carried out previous 
repairs, rather than as the result of a storm. So Im not going to ask AXA to do anything 
more.
I can see in the file that AXA says it paid £200 to Mr S for delays in the claim process. Mr S 
has told this service that he hasnt accepted or received this payment. Ive looked at the 
delays caused by AXA which I can see have caused Mr S distress and inconvenience and I 
think £200 compensation is in line with this services guidelines. Im not going to ask AXA to pay more, but it should check Mr S has actually been paid and verify that with Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman