DRN-2573089
The complaint
Mr L complains Lowell Financial Ltd are asking him to repay a debt on a credit card they 
shouldnt be. Mr Ls also unhappy theyre reporting the debt to the credit reference agencies 
(CRAs).
What happened
The information I have shows the credit card in question was taken out on 29 July 2011 with 
a lender Ill call C. The information shows the account was sold by C to Lowell on 
18 February 2016. On 6 April 2016 a notice of assignment (NOA) was sent to Mr L to say 
Lowell were now the owner of the account.
Within a few days Mr L had contacted Lowell to tell them to stop processing his data. And 
since then hes sent them many emails and letters expressing concerns over this debt. Ive 
summarised what I consider to be his key points:
Continued contact from Lowell about this debt is harassment and is having a 
significant impact on him and his family  including stopping him from getting a new 
mortgage
Lowell have failed to provide a copy of the application he apparently completed with 
C. Because of that he doesnt think its right for them to ask him to repay this debt
He also doesnt think its right for Lowell to report this debt to the CRAs because it 
was defaulted with C previously in 2012 / 2013 so it has to come off his credit file
Although hed previously said he did have an account with C, he was mistaken and 
actually hes never held an account with C, so this is fraudulent. 
Hes got a letter from C who have said he doesnt have an account with them, and 
isnt happy Link are ignoring this evidence of his.
Across a number of responses over the years Mr L has been contacting them. Link have 
said:
They didnt think their contact asking Mr L to repay a debt that they believed was his, 
was harassment
Lowell couldnt provide a copy of the actual application, but they did provide a copy of 
a reconstituted agreement, and statements showing whatd happened on the account 
 all the information they received from C showed the account was his, so they were 
right to ask him to repay it
They asked C for evidence the account had been defaulted, and said C had told 
them the account hadnt ever been defaulted before Lowell purchased it  so they 
were right to report the account conduct to the CRAs
Based on the information they had they believed the account to be Mr Ls, but he 
should contact C if he felt the account had fraudulently been taken out in his name
Link asked C about the letter, and theyd told Link it related to a different credit 
application. So the account was still Mr Ls, and he was still responsible for the debt
It later transpired the account Mr L is disputing was opened online with C, who have said 
they wouldnt have held a signed application for Mr L because of that. 
Unhappy with their responses, in August 2020 Mr L asked us to look into things. 
One of our investigators did so  which included asking C for an explanation on why theyd 
sent Mr L a letter saying he didnt have an account with them. C replied to explain the letter 
was for a fixed term account which Mr L didnt take up. But they explained he did have the 
credit card Lowell had quoted. They provided statements of the credit card account which 
showed Mr Ls name and address  as well as an internal screenshot showing Mr Ls name, 
address and date of birth. 
After considering all the evidence Mr L, Lowell and C had provided, our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She explained Lowell arent responsible for the original application of 
the credit card  so her role is to decide whether theres enough evidence to say if Lowell 
have acted fairly and reasonably in asking Mr L to repay the debt. And, having considered 
everything, she felt there was enough evidence to say Lowell were acting fairly.
Mr L didnt accept this. He provided another copy of the letter from C saying he didnt have 
an account with them and said he wanted a copy of his application which showed his 
signature  but knows Lowell cant provide one because he never signed any such 
agreement. Mr L also said hed spoken to his solicitor and asked why Lowell are allowed to 
register an account as being in default on his credit file when its already been paid off. 
Mr L also provided information from the CRAs which he said showed Lowell reporting the 
debt since 2016, when the account was opened in 2011. He said hed asked C for 
information about the IP address used to open the account, which theyd provided, and it 
was a different internet provider to the one he uses. As Mr L didnt accept our investigators 
outcome the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has sent a substantial amount of emails to Lowell over the years hes been in dispute 
with them about this account. Id like Mr L and Lowell to know Ive read every single email 
that weve been provided with  but Ill only be commenting on the key issues in this 
complaint as I see them.
The key issue for me to decide is whether Lowell have enough information to be reasonably 
satisfied theyre asking Mr L to repay a debt thats his.
To decide this, Ive looked at the information C have sent to Lowell. This information includes 
a reconstituted credit agreement, statements and internal screen prints. Ive also taken into 
account what Mr L has said during the course of his contacts. 
Are Lowell acting fairly by treating the debt as his?
Theres no requirement for credit providers such as C, or debt collectors such as Lowell, to 
provide the actual copy of a credit agreement if a reconstituted agreement can be produced. 
In Mr Ls case, I can see thats what happened and that hes unhappy with it. But the rules 
allow for a reconstituted copy of the agreement to be sent so I cant say Lowell have acted 
incorrectly by doing this.That on its own wouldnt be enough under the rules. There also has to be some evidence of 
the account activity. So, Ive looked at the statements provided. These show Mr Ls name 
and includes the same address hes given our service when contacting us. The statements 
are dated from September 2011 to April 2016. This appears to be correct given the account 
was taken out at the end of July 2011 and sold to Lowell in February 2016. The statements 
show, for a period of time, what appears to be normal use of a credit card. Later on, the 
statements seem to show a payment arrangement was reached and smaller payments of 
£10 and then £20 were being made with no interest being applied or purchases made to the 
account.
The internal screen shot includes Mr Ls name, address and date of birth. Again, the name 
and address match with the statements  and the date of birth given to us matches what C 
have recorded on their systems.
In addition, the emails Mr L sent Lowell from April 2016 did say hed had an account with C, 
but the account had been defaulted in 2012 / 2013. Its not until August 2020, over four years 
after Mr L started his dispute with Lowell, where hes said he was confused and that actually 
he never held an account with C. I think Lowell wouldnt be acting unreasonably by thinking, 
up to this point, hed confirmed he had an account with C.
So, taking all of that information into account then, I think Lowell are acting fairly by treating 
the debt as Mr Ls given all the personal details provided match his, asking him to repay it, 
and reporting it on his credit file.
Are Lowell subjecting Mr L to harassment?
Ive also interpreted Mr Ls comments about harassment as being because Lowell are asking 
him to repay the debt and wont remove it from his credit file. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained above, Im satisfied theyre acting fairly in treating the debt as his. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest Lowell have harassed him when contacting him  
from what I can see, hes actually contacted them on more occasions than theyve contacted 
him. 
Cs letter saying Mr L doesnt have an account with them
Mr L told Lowell he didnt take out an account with C and produced the letter which said he 
hadnt.
In that scenario, Id expect Lowell to have asked C about this, and I can see they did. C told 
Lowell this was for a different type of account and Mr L had taken out a credit card. This is 
the same information they told our investigator, and I dont think Lowell have acted 
unreasonably in relying on the information C have given them. And, if this information is 
wrong in Mr Ls opinion, he could raise his concerns with C.
With that information in mind, combined with the other information Ive referred to above, I 
think Lowell again are still acting correctly by asking Mr L to repay the debt. 
Mr L says the account was defaulted in 2012 / 2013
In relation to Mr Ls comments about the default having been recorded in 2012 / 2013 this 
clearly would be a concern. I wouldnt expect an account to have been defaulted on more 
than one occasion. In Mr Ls situation, Id expect Lowell to have asked C what happened 
with this and whether the account had been defaulted before.I can see Lowell did that, and C said the account hadnt ever been defaulted before. Mr L 
has also said hed got evidence of this happening, but Lowell have said hes never provided 
it. I also cant see hes provided this evidence either, to Lowell or to our service  so in the 
absence of anything to the contrary I cant say that Mr Ls credit card debt was defaulted in 
2012 / 2013.
Other concerns
Mr L has also raised a number of other concerns  such as he never took out the account.
As I said earlier, Im only considering whether Lowell have enough evidence to fairly expect 
Mr L to repay the debt. Whether the debt is his or not isnt something I can decide in this 
decision. If Mr L wishes to pursue his further concerns, he may wish to discuss them with C 
directly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman