DRN-3323390
The complaint
Ms J has complained that HDI Global Speciality SE has unreasonably increased her 
premium for her pet policy.
What happened
Ms J bought a lifetime policy through a pet charity which is underwritten by HDI in November 
2020. The premium per month was £21.03. 
When the policy renewed in November 2021 the premium had risen to £41.01 per month. Ms 
J had made some claims in the policy year mainly concerning medication for allergies which 
it transpires her dog doesnt have, so those medication costs wont be ongoing. Ms J thought 
the premium increase was too high, and so consequently unaffordable and unreasonable. 
Ms J complained but HDI did think it had done anything wrong. Mr J didnt agree so she 
brought her complaint to us. The investigator also didnt think HDI had done anything wrong. 
As Ms J remained dissatisfied her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In complaints like this, this service cant tell an insurer like HDI what price the premium 
should be, as thats a matter for each insurers commercial discretion. Each insurer including 
HDI can decide what risks it wants to provide cover and which it doesnt and more 
importantly here, what the premium amount should be.  However, we can look to make sure 
Ms J was treated fairly and not singled or treated differently to anyone else in her situation.
Ms J chose a lifetime policy for her dog, which provides cover for vet fees up to £5,000 per 
year each year providing she continues to renew her policy. There is no limit (other than the 
£5,000 cap) on how many times Ms J can claim for one condition or indeed how many 
conditions she can claim vet fees for, provided the condition isnt pre-existing or subject to 
any other benefit limiting term such as the bilateral illness limitation. So, it covers the vet 
fees she might incur for her dog for the rest of its life up to the limit of £5,000 per year.
These policies are sold on whats called an unadvised basis. That means HDI doesnt give 
any advice to Ms J or any other policyholder as to whether this policy is right for them or 
meets their needs. Thats for Ms J to decide for herself based on the information detailed by 
HDI.
So, we expect HDI to explain how this cover works and how the premium is treated which it 
did in the terms and conditions, as it said the following: 
 Like humans, our pets are more likely to be affected by illness as they get older. 
This means that every year, your insurance premium will increase even if you have 
not made a claim. This increase will be more significant if you have claimed.
This also includes the warning that if claims are made the premium will be significantly 
higher. Ms J did make three claims. So, Im satisfied that HDI explained reasonably how this 
policy would work and that the likelihood of premiums increasing was appropriately detailed. 
I appreciate that Ms J said her dog wont need the claimed for medications on an ongoing 
basis but I dont consider thats relevant, as Ms J made the claims and HDI paid out on the 
claims, which it warned, as detailed above, could significantly increase the premium. 
Also, as the investigator explained in her view there are other factors which affect the 
amount of the premium, related risks of future claims, the dogs age and indeed breed. 
Further factors also increase premiums such as increases in vet costs, developments in vet 
science allowing new often more expensive treatment plus general inflation and other rising 
costs. 
From what HDI showed us, there is nothing to show that Ms J was singled out or treated any 
differently from other policyholders in her situation. Therefore, I dont consider its acted 
unreasonably or unfairly to Ms J. As explained above, Ive no remit to tell any insurer what to 
charge for a premium or how to rate, as in calculate, the premium amount either. Thats 
because this service isnt the regulator of insurers like HDI, the regulator instead is the 
Financial Conduct AuthorityMy final decision
So, whilst I do appreciate Ms J will be disappointed with my decision, for these reasons, its 
my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman