DRN-3704564
The complaint
Ms N complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it advanced her loans. Had it carried out proper checks it 
wouldve discovered Ms N couldnt afford her loans. 
What happened
Ms N took five loans between June 2017 and December 2018. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 13/06/2017 03/10/2017 20 £15.00
2 £300.00 03/10/2017 01/05/2018 33 £15.00
3 £300.00 12/12/2017 27/07/2018 33 £15.00
4 £300.00 01/05/2018 14/12/2018 33 £15.00
5 £500.00 14/12/2018 28/02/2020 33 £25.00
The weekly repayment column above is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans 
overlapped the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 2 and 3 were running at the 
same time Ms Ns weekly commitment was £30. 
Morses considered Ms Ns complaint and issued its final response letter. Morses concluded 
it had made a reasonable decision to provide these loans and so it didnt uphold her 
complaint. 
Ms Ns representatives didnt agree with the outcome reached by Morses and her 
representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who thought a reasonable decision to lend 
had been made for loans 1 - 3. But in the adjudicators view, loan 4 shouldnt have been 
granted as Ms N was committed to using a significant portion of her income to meet the 
repayment. The adjudicator also thought by loan 5, the loans were now harmful for 
Ms N. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation and Ive summarised its response 
below;
Ms Ns weekly repayment remained the same for loans 3 and 4. 
Although loan 5 was slightly larger, Morses doesnt consider this increase to be 
unreasonable. 
Ms N had a good repayment history. 
Morses checked Ms Ns income for these loans through the credit reference agency. 
Morses wasnt aware of any financial difficulties Ms N may have been having. 
 Ms Ns representative confirmed receipt of the assessment but no further comments were 
provided.   
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this sort of lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms N could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Ns 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms N. These factors include:
Ms N having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms N having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms N coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms N.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms N could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms N was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ns complaint.
Ms N appears to have agreed with the outcome the adjudicator reached and Morses hasnt 
disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about loans 1 - 3. Therefore, these loans are no 
longer in dispute, so I know longer think I have to make a finding about them. But I have kept 
in mind these loans when thinking about the overall lending relationship. Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses was right (or wrong) to have advanced 
loans 4 and 5. 
Loan 4
For this loan, Ms N declared she had a weekly income of around £215 with outgoings of 
around £130. The outgoing figure included the repayment Ms N was already making towards 
loan 3. Which left around £85 per week to make her weekly repayment of £15. Overall, for 
loan 4, Ms N had a weekly commitment to Morses of £30. 
Morses knew that Ms Ns previously declared and checked income was made up of salary 
as well as benefits. Morses says it evidence of Ms Ns income with the credit reference 
agency, but it hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman with the evidence it received. 
However, in saying that I dont think, given what Ive seen that Morses made a fair decision 
when it decided to lend loan 4 to Ms N. Im, therefore, upholding Ms Ns complaint about it 
and Ive explained why below. 
As Morses has pointed out in response to our adjudicator, Ms N was committed to spending 
around 14% of her income towards meeting her commitment to Morses when loan 4 was 
granted (and with loan 3 running concurrently). In my view these payments in this case were 
too high when considering what it knew about Ms Ns circumstances. 
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk, in my view that Ms N wouldnt have 
been able to meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its 
unlikely Ms N wouldve been able to sustainably meet her repayments for this loan.  Which, 
moving forward was shown, by the fact that Ms N has struggled to repay a later loan.
I say this because Ms N was making a commitment to pay Morses for another 33 weeks for 
each loan and I think its fair to say that Ms Ns income was modest and was potentially 
made up of some benefits.
On top of that, the information Morses was given suggested her income remained broadly 
similar and her other expenditure costs couldnt have been accurate because loan 4 was the 
first time that shed declared any rental costs. But there was no other expenditure that you 
would expect to see after a customer says they are renting, apart from groceries. 
So, give the concerns I have about the expenditure information Ms N provided along with 
what else Morses knew about her meant, in my view loan 4 was unlikely to be sustainable. 
While Morses doesnt think those percentages are excessive I think they were. There is 
clearly going to be a line beyond which it wouldnt have been reasonable for Morses to lend, 
but thats going to be particular to the circumstances of each individual complaint. And whilst 
a large proportion is going to increase the likelihood in any case that something has gone 
wrong there isnt an automatic cut off  I will always look at the broader circumstances  as 
Ive done here. 
Im not suggesting that just because Ms N had a modest income which was likely made up 
from potentially benefits and salary that funds couldnt be lent to her but what Morses 
needed to do is appreciate that taking into account the commitments that she had to it and 
over the time period was in my view not sustainable.  
Ive considered what Morses says in response to the adjudicator, but I dont think these 
comments change my mind. As Ive said above, some checks were carried out which may have shown the loans were affordable, but Morses also had to consider whether the loan 
was sustainable and I dont think, in this case it did that. 
Based on what Ive seen Im upholding Ms Ns complaint about this loan. 
Loan 5
For this loan, Morses has shown that it asked Ms N for details of her income and 
expenditure. She declared an income of £272 per week with outgoings of £53 per week. This 
left Ms N with a weekly disposable income of £219 to make her weekly repayments of no 
more than £25. 
Based solely on Ms Ns income and expenditure information Morses couldve been confident 
she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to making. 
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Ms N had 
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew 
about Ms Ns finances. For example, according to Morses, for this loan Ms N basically how 
no outgoings expect for food, media and a £3 per week payment towards a credit card which 
doesnt seem plausible. By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very 
least, started to have verified the information it was being given. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for her. 
So in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Ms N, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ns case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms N was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. This was now Ms Ns sixth loan within 18 months. So, Morses 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms N was having to borrow further 
to cover a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
Ms N was generally provided with a new loan on the same day a previous loan was 
repaid. By loan 5, it was the third time that this had happened. To me, this is a sign 
that Ms N was using these loans to fill a long-term gap in her income rather than as a 
short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Ms Ns weekly commitments stayed 
roughly the same  reaching weekly commitments of £30 per week before slightly 
reducing to £25 for this loan. But it is worth saying here that this was Ms Ns largest 
capital loan to date.  But Ms N was committed each time to repaying over at least 33 
weeks, which I think shows that he was, more likely than not, having longer term 
problems with a consistent need for credit. 
Ms N wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 5 was 
taken out 18 months after Ms Ns first loan. Her final loan was more than twice the 
size of her first and was repayable over a longer term than the first loan. She was 
committing to spending at least another 33 weeks indebted to Morses. Ms N had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended 
period.I think its clear this loan wasnt sustainable for Ms N when it took her nearly twice as 
long as contracted to repay it. 
I think that Ms N lost out when Morses provided loan 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ns indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms N borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Ns ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Ms Ns complaint about loans 4 and 5. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not given Ms N loans 4 and 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms N may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms N in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms N would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms N loans 4 and 5.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms N towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms 
N which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms N originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Ms N the total of A plus B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Ms Ns credit file 
in relation to loan 4. The overall pattern of Ms Ns borrowing for loan 5 means any 
information recorded about it is adverse, so Morses should remove the loan entirely 
from her credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give 
Ms N a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ns complaint in part.  
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms N as Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman