DRN-1139408
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc didnt call him back to complete the security process 
required to release a transfer from his bank account. 
What happened
On 20 June 2019 Mr T contacted Santander to transfer funds to another account. In order to 
complete the transfer process Santander should have called Mr T back. Mr T has done this 
sort of transfer before and says that call normally happens within 10 minutes. 
Mr T called Santander back after waiting around an hour. He explained that the follow up call 
hadnt been made and was concerned about his transfer. Santander took the necessary 
steps to release Mr Ts transfer and it was sent a short time later. 
Mr T complained and Santander responded on 20 June 2019. Santander apologised for 
failing to call Mr T back and credited his account with £40. Mr T went on to refer his 
complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator to review. Mr T said he wanted 
Santander to increase the award to £100 but the investigator thought the £40 settlement it 
had already paid was a fair way to resolve the complaint. Mr T didnt agree so his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the investigator, Mr T has explained that it was his actions that led to his 
transfer being released on 20 June 2019. Mr T says that if it had been left to Santander, the 
transfer wouldnt have been sent on time. Ive looked at the available evidence and I agree 
with Mr T. I can see that he should have received a follow up call after he instructed the 
transfer and that the call wasnt made. If Mr T hadnt called back, its entirely possible his 
transfer would have been delayed. But I have to base my decision on what did happen, not 
what could have happened. So whilst I agree the transfer could have been delayed, it was 
made within the standard timescales after Mr T called back. 
Ive thought about the level of compensation Santander has paid. I appreciate Mr T feels its 
too low and doesnt reflect the fact that he was the one who noticed the correct process 
hadnt been followed. But I have to take into account that the situation was quickly resolved 
after Mr T called back. There was a period of around an hour when Mr T was waiting for a 
call. But once Mr T called back and highlighted his concerns Santander was quick to act. As 
Santander resolved the situation reasonably quickly, the impact of its error was limited. 
I agree there was some inconvenience to Mr T and that the situation caused concern. But, I 
think the £40 Santander has paid fairly reflects the impact of its error on Mr T. Im very sorry 
to disappoint Mr T but I havent been persuaded to increase the award or to tell Santander to 
take any further action. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Santander UK Plc has already paid 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman