DRN-3202522
The complaint
Miss B and Mr K complain that Berkeley Finance Limited (Berkeley) quoted them a £999 
mortgage broker fee, but this had been changed to £1995 when they received their 
mortgage offer.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything here. 
Instead Ill provide a summary of whats happened, and then Ill move on to giving my 
decision, and the reasons for it.
In December 2020 Miss B and Mr K approached Berkeley for assistance in applying for a 
first-time buyer mortgage. Miss B and Mr K explain that they had a discussion with the 
advisor at Berkeley and they were quoted a brokerage fee of £999. Theyve also explained 
that although they werent given any paperwork to confirm this fee at the time, the advisor 
provided them with her business card, with the fee written on it. 
In January 2021 Miss B and Mr Ks mortgage application was submitted to the lender by 
Berkeley, and at that time Berkeley sent an invoice for the fee of £1995 to Miss B and Mr K. 
The mortgage offer was produced by the lender and sent out to Miss B and Mr K, as well as 
to Berkeley, around two weeks later.  
Following receipt of the offer Miss B and Mr K questioned the £1995 invoice with Berkeley, 
as the offer showered a broker fee of £999. At that stage they were told this must have been 
a misunderstanding. Berkeley explained that the £999 they mightve recalled was in fact the 
mortgage product fee, payable to the lender, and not the broker fee. Miss B and Mr K say 
they paid the £1995 for fear of losing the mortgage offer if they didnt pay it. 
On 23 February Miss B and Mr K received a revised mortgage offer from their lender, 
showing the £1995 broker fee had replaced the initial £999 fee. They contacted their solicitor 
to explain that they wanted to take legal action against Berkley due to the wrong fee being 
charged. The solicitor explained that as he was related to the advisor whod been dealing 
with Miss B and Mr K, they should seek alternative legal advice. 
On the same day Miss B and Mr K contacted the lender to ask what prompted the revised 
mortgage offer to be sent to them. The lender explained that this was following contact from 
Berkeley, to amend the broker fee displayed on the offer document, from £999 to £1995. 
Miss B and Mr K made a complaint to Berkeley about what happened. They explained that 
they were initially told the fee was £999 and that theyd never have chosen to use Berkeleys 
services if theyd been quoted the £1995 that Berkeley says it quoted from the outset.
Berkeley didnt agree it had done anything wrong, although it accepted that it initially made 
an error on the mortgage offer document which it changed as soon as it noticed. But Miss B 
and Mr K remained unhappy, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered everything and didnt agree Berkeley had treated Miss B and Mr 
K fairly. He recommended that Berkeley should refund the difference between the £1995 
Miss B and Mr K paid and the £999 that they say they were initially quoted. He also 
recommended Berkeley should pay £150 compensation to Miss B and Mr K, in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience that the poor service had caused.
Berkeley didnt reply to the investigators opinion, so the matter hasnt yet been settled. So 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision, so that matters can be brought to 
a close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion, for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
- Miss B and Mr K have provided an extract of the initial mortgage offer document. The 
document includes the broker fee of £999 and this is clearly differentiated from the 
lenders product fee, which was also £999. So I think its unlikely that Miss B and Mr 
K mistook one fee for the other. As Berkeley hasnt responded to this services 
requests for information and responses on a number of occasions, I havent been 
given any information to show me that it made Miss B and Mr K aware that the fee 
was in fact £1995 in any other way, apart from when they received the revised 
mortgage offer from their lender. Its the mortgage brokers duty, as our investigator 
explained, to set out their fees clearly. And Im not persuaded that happened on this 
occasion. 
- Berkeley contacted the lender to revise the offer on the same day as Miss B and Mr 
K threatened legal action against it for issuing incorrect paperwork. This may be a 
coincidence, but I think its more likely that Berkeley attempted to rectify a mistake it 
had made, but in doing so, didnt communicate this to Miss B and Mr K. As the 
application had already been submitted at that point, I think its likely that Miss B and 
Mr K felt obliged to pay for Berkeleys services. I can also understand why they 
mightve felt that questioning the fee or refusing to pay it may jeopardise their chance 
of obtaining the mortgage. 
- Miss B and Mr K have explained that had they been told from the outset that 
Berkeleys fee was £1995 they wouldnt have chosen to use its services, as this is 
much higher than the going rate for mortgage brokers. Whilst I havent extensively 
researched this, I do think that Miss B and Mr K have made a valid point. And I think 
it's reasonable to say that they could easily have found a broker with a much lower 
fee  especially as Im not aware that they had to use Berkeley for a specific reason 
or to obtain a particular service that they couldnt get elsewhere. So I think its fair for 
Berkeley to compensate Miss B and Mr K the difference between the £1995 that they 
paid, and the £999 that they expected to pay.
- Its disappointing that Berkeley didnt provide sufficient information to this service for 
us to fully consider all of the facts of the complaint  despite repeated phone calls 
and assurances that the information would be provided. This has prolonged the 
complaint substantially and so I think the additional £150 compensation 
recommended by the investigator is fair, as this has only exacerbated the distress 
and inconvenience that the initial complaint caused.Putting things right
To put things right I require Berkeley Finance Limited to:
- Pay Miss B and Mr K £996, which is the difference between the fee they were quoted 
and the fee they paid;
- Add 8% simple interest to this payment, from the date it was paid by Miss B and Mr K 
until the date its paid;
- Pay Miss B and Mr K £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the 
matter has caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Berkeley Finance Limited to do what Ive said above to put 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman