DRN-3482879
The complaint
Miss T complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) irresponsibly gave her a credit 
card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 23 March 2017, Miss T applied for a credit card account with Vanquis. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £1000. The credit limit was increased on 22 August 2017 to £2000. 
In 2021, Miss T complained to Vanquis to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Vanquis ought to have made a better 
effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss T didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Vanquis will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ts complaint is that Vanquis made credit available that was unaffordable. Vanquis has 
explained that it used, among other things, a credit reference agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending, as well as the information it 
had on how Miss T was managing her account. Its possible that Vanquis failed to make 
adequate checks before providing Miss T with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think 
better enquiries would have caused Vanquis to think the initial credit limit or the increase 
were unaffordable. 
I say this because at the point that she applied for the credit card Miss T told Vanquis that 
whilst she was working full time with a salary of £18,000 a year. The initial credit limit was 
modest and the maximum monthly payments for that credit were also relatively modest 
and up to the credit increase Miss T was not using anywhere near the initial credit limit. 
And there was nothing from the credit reference agency that made the credit automatically 
unreasonable or that would have put Vanquis off supplying either the credit or the credit 
increase had they known about them at the time. 
And whilst Miss T told us that by the time of the credit increase she was not working, the 
bank statements that Miss T has provided show that Miss T had a good regular income 
from benefits. And the statements also show that Miss Ts bank account was largely well 
managed up to August 2017 when the credit increase happened; mostly the money in to 
the account matched the money leaving it, some months more some months less, and the 
balance was in cre3cdit mostly. Overall, there was nothing in the bank statements 
sufficient to have put Vanquis off providing credit to Miss T up to August 2017. And there 
were no new adverse markings that may have pointed to financial difficulty at that time. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss T to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Vanquis to think that the credit it 
provided Miss T was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss T was 
managing her account or what Vanquis could see of her management of other credit ought 
to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss T will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss T to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman