DRN-4051884
The complaint
Ms M and Mr M are unhappy about the handling, service and decline of a boiler claim by 
British Gas Insurance Limited under a home emergency HomeCare policy.
The policy is in the name of Ms M and Mr M but for the purposes of this decision as Mr M as 
dealt with most of the details Ill refer only to him throughout.
What happened
Mr M made a claim when his boiler broke down. He said that BG hadnt told him he needed 
a powerflush in November 2021 and his system broke down in April/May 2022. By this stage 
BG said the boiler was obsolete but it agreed to repair it. BG gave Mr M a parts list and he 
bought them. BG later reimbursed Mr M the cost of these parts. However, when it came to 
fixing the boiler BG then said it needed a further 2 parts that shouldve been ordered but 
were not on the parts list BG gave to Mr M. At this stage Mr M pointed out that one of the BG 
engineers now said the boiler was suffering corrosion due to the lack of a powerflush.
Mr M said BG hadnt raised the issue of a powerflush before and he felt it was just a way to 
make money from the policy. He also said BG had missed many arranged appointments 
where BG just never turned up. He said hed lost potential rental income and sale proceeds 
as house prices were now dropping and hed wanted to sell while waiting for BG to fix the 
boiler. Mr M said he spent most of 2022 without heating and hot water.
To put matters right Mr M wants a new boiler, the loss of rental income, the loss in house 
value, and the loss of quality of life. As he and BG couldnt agree he brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said BG did inform Mr M that a powerflush 
was required and it needed to be done before BG would agree to carry out any further work. 
So, when the claim occurred, and BG paid for the parts and the boiler still couldnt be 
repaired she felt BG paying back the premium in full was fair.
Mr M didnt agree, and he asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main complaint point Mr M has focussed on is that he said BG never told him that he 
needed to have a power flush. He said because it didnt tell him, he didnt get the powerflush 
done, and so thats why his system ended up failing.
BG see things very differently. It said As you can see from the work history attached, we 
have been informing Mr M that a new boiler is needed since 2016  code5 when the 
engineer has advised on a new boiler quote which the customer has declined.
BG continued As you can see the engineers have marked code5 on several of their visits, 
which means  code5 when the engineer has advised on a new boiler quote which the 
customer has declined.
So as far as BG is concerned the power flush isnt the main point. It said Mr M was aware for 
several years that the boiler could fail, needed to be replaced, and he had chosen not to pay 
for a replacement.
The parties completely disagree about whether or not Mr M was made aware a power flush 
was needed. BG said He reported a fault to us in November 2021. which we attended to 
and advised there was blockages that we did clear and confirmed to him a Powerflush was 
need. A Powerflush is needed when there is a build up of sludge in the system, which is not 
covered under the terms and conditions of his HomeCare Policy. If we advise a Powerflush 
is needed and the customer ignores this then we will refuse any future repairs to faults which 
are related to sludge.
Aside from the 2016 point of telling Mr M the boiler needed replacing BG maintains that it did 
tell Mr M about the need for a power flush in November 2021. Its record from this point said 
code5 code6 cleared blockage from chb pipework & re-pres & vented air from sys.adv 
replace chb & pow. BG say POW means powerflush.
I understand code6 refers to Mr M not accepting a heating upgrade quotation. Which again 
suggests BG did make him aware of the need for action regarding the system. BG said that 
these are pointed out specifically because these are costs that the policy doesnt cover, and 
a policyholder has to pay extra for this. BG also said a power flush would need to be done 
before it would fit any new parts and that the boiler would only last a few months before 
failing again. BG said it couldnt guarantee that even if Mr M had the work done that it would 
solve the issues with the boiler. It couldnt say how long it might last for. It said soon after 
doing this other things may go wrong where we cannot source parts or repair. (Nov we 
repaired main part PC Board and it has broken down again in April). BG continued that 
when taking the boiler apart it may have found other issues that cannot be repaired, it would 
be a risk.
I understand the point Mr M is making but based on the records provided by BG Ive no 
reason to doubt that it did advise Mr M that action was required in both 2016 and 2021.
BG said it wasnt responsible for the cost of a new boiler and said this was clear under its 
terms and conditions. The policy said A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and: 
its less than seven years old; or its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its 
been continuously covered by us under either warranty or HomeCare product.
Regarding the decision to then cancel the policy BG said it was clear the boiler wasnt 
suitable for cover. It pointed out within the policy wording it said: We can cancel your 
agreement or product if: we cant find the parts we need to repair your boiler, appliance or 
system, despite our attempts. BG did repay Mr M the costs for the parts totalling £427.34. I 
dont think that decision is unreasonable in the circumstances. I think BG explained itself 
clearly and fairly.
In terms of the premium, BG said: we will refund any payments from the last renewal or last 
claim depending on which one is more recent. This is in line with the terms and conditions 
Id expect to see in a standard policy of this nature. BG said Mr M had paid £248.05 which was 11 months of the policy years premium instalments. But it decided to refund him in full 
the amount of £270.60 for the total policy year. This was despite the claim being in the policy 
year. I think this was a fair and reasonable offer from BG based on the policy terms and 
conditions.
In view of the details from BG Mr M passed on further information which suggested a power 
flush wasnt needed. BG responded to say if Mr M had now replaced the boiler it couldnt 
reassess the original problem. Mr M said BG owed him a duty of case here, but Im not sure 
how that takes his case forward as Mr Ms original point was that BG hadnt told him a power 
flush was needed and he said that was why the system failed. Here he has produced 
evidence suggesting a power flush wasnt needed after all.
But in terms of the time spent by Mr M buying the obsolete parts so that BG could repair his 
boiler only for it then later on to decide it wasnt going to isnt fair. I do think Mr M has a 
reasonable argument here. Although Ive accepted BGs conclusions, I dont see why it 
couldnt have made those conclusions much sooner. I do think Mr M suffered unreasonable 
delays and it would have been very disappointing to him when BG then did decide not to try 
and repair the boiler.
Theres no doubt having no hot water and no heating is a big inconvenience. That is 
something that is part and parcel of this sort of situation when a claim of this type has to be 
made. But in view of BGs change of heart Mr M was delayed for a lot longer than he should 
have been. Theres also discussion about missed appointments too. BG has paid £10 for 
one missed appointment but Mr M said there were several and it cost him more through lost 
days holidays when nobody from BG turned up. Mr M exampled the missed appointments 
with details. These include I can only reiterate that there were many missed appointments 
including an example where I was telephoned on the day by BG engineers to tell me he 
would not be attending because he had unilaterally decided that it should be the original 
engineer and refused to turn up and honour the appointment after I pleaded with him. And 
Another occasion I was at the house with an estate agent and between him arriving and 
leaving we found a note in the door from BG saying they had visited. The estate agent and I 
were in the front room for the entire 15min appointment and both of us agreed that BG had 
failed to knock/ring or call me on my mobile. the BG area technical manager told me he is 
not informed when his team miss appointments and so it appears there is no measure or 
penalty if they decide not to attend appointments.
Whereas BG has produced a report that shows from its record that there was only one 
missed appointment and it paid £10 as compensation for this.
I asked our investigator to update the parties on my thoughts. To let them know I thought 
with the amount of time Mr M would have spent buying and sourcing the parts that BG chose 
not to use (but did pay him back for) was unreasonable. I said that the amount of time Mr M 
had no heating or hot water was also unreasonable. I note that both sides feel strongly about 
the amount of missed appointments and both have put forward points to dispute each other. 
However, I notified both sides that Mr M should get £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused him.
BG maintained that not more than one appointment was missed and it was willing to pay 
Mr M £75 for his distress and inconvenience but it didnt really pick up too much on the point 
about how long Mr M was without hot water and heating, it focused on the appointments 
issue. Ive not seen anything in response that makes me think I need to vary the £150 
amount.
Mr M has also referred to renting out the property and even selling the property. But Ive not 
seen any evidence that would persuade me that he suffered such extensive losses.Putting things right
Pay Ms M and Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Ms M and Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms M and Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman