DRN-3452817
The complaint
Mr D complains NewDay Ltd lent him money on two credit cards irresponsibly when he was 
in financial hardship.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
My understanding is Mr D held two different credit card accounts with NewDay  one card 
branded as Aqua, and another branded as Marbles. 
Mr D said these two accounts had been lent irresponsibly, and they should be written off.
In providing their response to Mr Ds complaint, NewDay gave the following information 
about the accounts:
Aqua
Account opened on 9 May 2013 with a £250 limit
Six credit limit increases took place  the first being 18 September 2013 to £600, and 
the last being 11 May 2016 for £3,550.
Marbles
Application completed 8 February 2016 with a £300 limit
Two credit limit increases took place  the first being 10 June 2016 to £1,300, and 
the second being 23 January 2017 to £2,300.
NewDay said for each lending decision taken by them, Mr Ds circumstances were taken into 
account and they found no reason to turn down the application. NewDay added they could 
see Mr D had contacted them about his financial situation in May 2017  and as a result of 
that they set up repayment plans to assist him. They said they wouldnt write off the balance 
as Mr D had asked, as hed made purchases on the cards, so the debts were valid.
NewDay added both of Mr Ds accounts had been sold on to different debt collectors. Mr Ds 
Aqua debt had been sold to a company Ill call H in August 2018, and his Marbles card was 
sold to another company Ill call L in July 2017.
Unhappy with NewDays responses, Mr D asked us to look into things.
While doing so, NewDay raised objections to our service considering some of the credit limit 
increases  as they said theyd been brought out of time. NewDay also made an offer to 
settle Mr Ds complaint. He asked that we just focus on the offer, which is what our 
Investigator did.
The offer NewDay made was to uphold the credit limit increase that occurred in 
January 2017 on Mr Ds Marbles card. The offer was for £186.71 and refunded interest, late 
payment charges, over limit fees and cash advance fees. NewDay added there was still a 
debt on Mr Ds Marbles card which had been sold to L in July 2017, so the redress would be 
used to reduce that.
Mr D wanted the money paid directly to him  and when NewDay said they wouldnt do that, 
our Investigator issued his outcome  saying he thought they should. Mr D accepted this 
outcome, but NewDay didnt  saying Mr D had an outstanding balance with L of £931.41. 
They said as with all complaints of this nature, theyd apply any refund of interest and 
charges to the balance first  and anything remaining would then be paid to the individual 
directly.
As NewDay didnt agree to the outcome our Investigator reached, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see during our conversations with Mr D weve asked him if hes able to provide any 
further information to help us investigate his other credit limit increases. Hes let us know 
hes not been able to do that. This is fine, but I think Mr D needs to be aware that once Ive 
issued my final decision, itll be very unlikely wed be able to consider these credit limit 
increases again in future. So, if Mr D decides he wants to provide us with further information 
in response to this decision, and our Investigator can let him know whats required, then he 
should do so.
Without further information, I cant reasonably say the outcome NewDay have reached  in 
only offering to refund the credit limit increase on the Marbles credit card  is wrong. So, Ill 
focus on that.
The offer NewDay have made is to refund interest and charges applied because of the credit 
limit increase. This is in line with our usual approach for cases where lending was granted 
irresponsibly. 
Ive noted Mr D initially wanted the debt written off and given the difficult personal 
circumstances hes mentioned I can understand why. Mr D has my sympathy for the issues 
hes mentioned. But to ask a lender to write off a debt, when the person has spent the 
money, Id usually need to be satisfied NewDay did something wrong when granting the 
lending. Or that Mr D was unlikely to ever be able to repay the funds owed. Based on what 
Ive seen so far, no circumstances apply that would give me fair grounds to tell NewDay to 
write off the debt.
That means I think the offer NewDay have made is a fair one  given its in line with our 
usual approach for these types of cases and Ive been provided with no evidence to suggest 
otherwise.
The remaining point in dispute, is over how this money should be credited for Mr Ds benefit. 
Due to Mr Ds personal circumstances, hes asked for the money to be paid to him directly. 
NewDay have said theyd apply this as a credit to the account the debt collector now owns to 
reduce the balance.
I can see our Investigator explained our usual approach to compensation in these 
circumstances is for the money to be paid directly to Mr D. But I think there is some 
confusion here. NewDays offer is a refund of the financial loss theyve accepted they caused Mr D by granting him lending they shouldnt have  not compensation. So, in effect, 
this is a financial loss that needs to be put right. Itd be right to refund that money to Mr D  
but only if hed lost out by paying this money himself. If, for example, the account had been 
fully repaid, then he would be owed that money. But NewDay have said L still holds a 
balance of £931.41. So, I dont think I can fairly say Mr D has directly lost out by these 
interest and charges being applied  as he still owes money under the agreement. 
I can see our Investigator asked NewDay if they would be prepared to pay the money 
directly to Mr D. They said they wouldnt be. And I dont think itd be fair for me to require 
them to refund interest and charges directly to him, when he still owes money under the 
agreement. Ill simply direct them to refund the money, so this leaves it open for NewDay to 
refund the money directly to Mr D if they choose to. But, as Ive explained, Im not requiring 
them to do so, and I expect NewDay to arrange for the refund to be used to reduce Mr Ds 
account with L.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D said he didnt accept my outcome  and thought he should get the money.
NewDay didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr D didnt accept my outcome but didnt say why he didnt agree.
I do understand why Mr D would like to receive the money directly. But, as Ive set out 
above, I cant reasonably say hes paid that money. He currently still owes £931.41 on the 
agreement, so I still dont think itd be fair for me to direct NewDay to refund it to him directly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I find what NewDay Ltd have offered to do to put 
things right is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ds case.
I require NewDay Ltd to refund interest and charges of £186.71.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman