DRN-3689815
The complaint
Miss B complains about the level of service she received from Telefonica UK Limited trading 
as O2 after she made it aware shed been a victim of fraud.
What happened
Miss B contacted Telefonica on 12 February 2022 as she suspected someone had applied 
for lending with it in her name. Miss B says she subsequently made further contact with 
Telefonica on numerous occasions throughout February 2022 and was repeatedly told shed 
be called back with an update, but it didnt happen. 
Telefonica accepted that a fixed sum loan had been taken out in Miss Bs name, without her 
authority on 4 March 2022. Miss B was made aware of this when she called Telefonica on 
11 March 2022. 
At this point Miss B raised issue with the time it had taken Telefonica to investigate matters 
as well as the poor service it had provided her. By way of an apology for the way things had 
been handled, Telefonica offered to pay Miss B £50 compensation. 
Miss B raised further issue with Telefonica on 29 March 2022 as she said shed expected to 
receive further contact from Telefonicas fraud team about the actions it had taken. She also 
said shed asked to discuss matters with a manager and hadnt received calls as shed been 
promised.
Telefonica issued a final response to Miss Bs concerns on 6 April 2022. It apologised for the 
time it had taken to resolve matters and said that it had sent Miss B the £50 previously 
offered.
Miss B referred her complaint to this service. In its submission to us, Telefonica accepted 
that Miss B hadnt received the level of service it wouldve expected her to and offered a 
further £50 compensation. 
Our investigator initially concluded that whilst Telefonica hadnt taken unreasonably long to 
resolve the issue of the fraudulent application, it had let Miss B down by repeatedly 
promising and failing to update Miss B. They decided that total of £100 was reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances.
Miss B didnt agree. She said that the unnecessary worry caused by Telefonicas handling of 
the matter had exacerbated her health issues, specifically relating to anxiety and asthma, to 
the extent that she sought medical attention at which point her existing medication was 
increased.
Our investigator accepted that Telefonicas handling of things had impacted Miss B more 
than initially thought. Taking into account what Miss B had now told us about the impact on 
her, our investigator concluded that itd be fair for Telefonica to pay a total of £250 to Miss B.
Telefonica disagreed. It said £250 compensation was excessive, questioned whether wed 
been provided medical evidence in relation to the impact on Miss Bs health and also cast 
doubt on that impact being caused solely by Telefonicas handling of things. It offered to pay 
Miss B £150 compensation in total. 
Ultimately neither party agreed on an appropriate level of compensation. Telefonica asked 
for a final decision on the case, so its been passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Bs complaint is about a whether or not Telefonica is acting fairly in relation to a fixed 
sum loan. Thats a regulated agreement, and one which this service has the power to 
consider a complaint about. 
Miss B is eligible to bring this complaint because Telefonica sought to recover payments 
from her under that agreement. I understand that any payments Miss B had made were 
returned, so shes not been caused a financial loss. 
From whats been said, I think both parties broadly agree with the events which led to this 
complaint. I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached; I accept that the time 
Telefonica took to resolve the issue internally, wasnt unreasonable. However, I also find that 
Telefonica provided Miss B with a poor level of service, specifically by promising and failing 
to call her back on a number of occasions.
From the records Telefonica provided, I can see that Miss B called it multiple times between 
11 February and 11 March. And I think given the frequency and nature of Miss Bs contact 
with Telefonica, it ought reasonably to have realised that Miss B was particularly worried 
about the situation. I expect it was particularly frustrating for Miss B to find that Telefonica 
had accepted the application was fraudulent a week before she called on 11 March 2022, 
but hadnt told her. And it seems that it was necessary  from Telefonicas notes  for Miss B 
to contact it on a number of subsequent occasions to resolve issues with payments it 
needed to make to her. 
I accept what Miss B has said about the situation causing her worry to the extent that it 
affected her health. I understand Telefonicas concerns about the extent to which the decline 
in Miss Bs health was affected solely by its handling of things. 
However, Miss B has given a plausible and consistent account of the extent to which her 
health was affected by the unnecessary trouble and worry caused by the way Telefonica 
handled things. I accept that the impact of Telefonicas poor service on Miss B was greater 
than Id otherwise have expected, taking into account the health conditions she was 
experiencing at the time. And, with particular regard to our approach to compensatory 
awards, Im satisfied that the £250 our investigator recommended is reasonable. So, thats 
what I require Telefonica to pay Miss B.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I require Telefonica UK Limited 
trading as O2 to pay Miss B a total of £250 compensation to the extent that it hasnt done so 
already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman