DRN-1695399
 
Complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt treat him fairly when it 
reduced the credit limit on his credit card account after he had made a small underpayment.
Background
Mr C has a credit card account with Halifax. He made a payment to the account which was 
approximately £17 less than the minimum monthly repayment that he was required to make. 
He made an additional payment a few days later. On the same day as he made the 
additional payment Halifax issued him with a letter asking him to bring his account up to 
date. The letter also said that if he tried to use the card it may be declined.
Mr C says that the letter was unnecessary because he had already made an additional 
payment which was greater than the amount of the underpayment. He also says that hes 
been a longstanding customer of Halifax and hes never made any underpayments 
previously. He says that on occasions he paid more than he was required to pay. He 
complained to Halifax about the letter.
Halifax investigated his complaint. It said that he had made an underpayment and it sent him 
a letter to tell him about this. It also said that it had sent him another letter a few days before 
the letter that hed complained about. In that letter it had told Mr C that because he hadnt 
made the minimum repayment its understanding of the risk of lending to him had changed. 
As a result it had decided to reduce his available spend immediately and reduce his credit 
limit two months later. Halifax also said that as hed made the additional payment before the 
letter about the late payment arrived it wouldnt be reporting the late payment on his credit 
report. But Halifax said that it wouldnt change its decision to reduce his credit limit.
Mr C was unhappy with this response. He says that Halifax has been vindictive in the way 
that its treated him and that its decision to reduce his credit limit is unjustified as his account 
has never been in arrears. So, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that there was no dispute that there had 
been a late payment. He looked at the letter that Mr C had received and he said that he 
thought it was reasonable in tone and didnt contain any inaccurate information. In his view, 
the decision to reduce Mr Cs credit limit was in line with the terms and conditions and Mr C 
had been given sufficient notice. So, he thought that Halifax hadnt done anything wrong 
when it reduced Mr Cs credit limit. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said that the decision to reduce his credit limit was out of all proportion 
to the offence (the underpayment). So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. For mainly the same reasons as our 
investigator I wont be upholding this complaint.
I can see that Mr C made a payment which was less than the minimum repayment required. 
Halifax sent him a letter which told him that because of the underpayment his credit limit 
would be reduced. It was after that letter was sent that Mr C made the additional payment. 
On the same day as he made the additional payment he was sent a further letter from 
Halifax asking him to pay the amount that he had underpaid. I can see that when he 
received this letter hed already made an additional payment which was greater than the 
underpayment that he was asked to pay. I can understand why Mr C wouldve been annoyed 
when he received this letter but I cant say that Halifax did anything wrong when it sent the 
letter. The letter was factually correct when it was issued. It is the case that by the time Mr C 
received it he had already made the additional payment. But, I can see that the letter 
includes a sentence which thanks the customer if a payment has been made since the date 
of the letter. I can also see that Halifax didnt report the underpayment to a credit reference 
agency. So, I dont think that Halifax acted unreasonably or unfairly when it issued the letter.
Ive also considered the decision that Halifax made about reducing the credit limit. Mr C says 
that Halifaxs response was out of all proportion to what had happened. Ive thought about 
that. There is no dispute that Mr C didnt make the full minimum repayment on time. Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions for the account. I can see that they say You must make 
at least the minimum payment by the due date. The credit card statements repeat this 
requirement. I can also see that if the minimum repayment is not made on time, the terms 
provide that a late payment fee may be charged. So, I think Halifax had made it clear that 
this was an important term and condition. 
The terms and conditions also say that Halifax can reduce the credit limit. It can do this for a 
number of reasons including circumstances where the customer has broken the agreement. 
Halifax says it reduced the credit limit because Mr C hadnt paid the full minimum repayment. 
As a result, it says that its understanding of the risk associated with his account changed. 
Having considered the terms and conditions and the importance of the requirement to make 
at least the minimum repayment by the due date I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax 
to reduce the credit limit.  I agree with Mr C when he says that Halifax should act in a 
proportionate way when dealing with breaches of its terms and conditions. But, I can see 
that Halifax reduced the credit limit on Mr Cs  account by £550 (a reduction of approximately 
6.5%). It also gave Mr C two months notice of its decision. In the circumstances, on balance, 
I dont agree with Mr C that Halifaxs actions were out of all proportion to what had 
happened. Im satisfied that Halifax has acted fairly and reasonably and I dont require it to 
take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman