DRN-4283536
The complaint
Mr F has complained that his premium didnt reduce as expected once a claim under his car 
insurance policy had been closed on a non-fault basis. BISL Limited is the broker 
responsible for arranging the policy.
What happened
Mr F renewed his car insurance policy through a broker, BISL in November 2021. In March 
2022 Mr F was unfortunately involved in an incident with another driver. He reported the 
incident to his insurer and they set up a claim. 
In October 2022 Mr Fs policy was due to be renewed, and on receipt of the renewal invite, 
he contacted his broker BISL to discuss the premium which was much higher. As there was 
an open claim, BISL said this may have an impact on his premium. 
BISL contacted the insurer for an update on the claim. The insurer told BISL the claim was 
still open. 
Mr F renewed his policy through BISL. In January 2023 Mr F contacted BISL and said the 
insurer had closed the claim. As BISL needed confirmation of this from the insurer before 
updating its records, it contacted the insurer. The insurer confirmed the claim had been 
settled as a non-fault. 
Mr F complained to BISL as he expected a reduction in the renewal premium hed paid. But 
BISL didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr F asked us to look at his complaint. 
BISL said that on reflection it hadnt done enough to correct its records and said it should 
have provided Mr F with a refund for the change in claim outcome. 
BISL offered to provide the refund in premium with interest - and to pay £75 compensation to 
Mr F for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
The Investigator put BISLs offer to Mr F. He rejected it. 
Mr F said he was unhappy with the length of time it had taken for the claim to be settled - 
and he didnt agree the premium reduction was enough.  
Our Investigator thought BISL had done enough to resolve the complaint. He explained that 
the premium price - and how a claim is dealt with - are complaints the insurer needs to 
address - and so Mr F would need to raise a separate complaint against the insurer. 
Mr F didnt agree. He says his relationship is with BISL, not the insurer. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BISL in its role as a broker is responsible for arranging a policy and the administration of it. 
An insurer sets the price for the premium a customer pays and deals with any claims made 
against the policy. This was explained by BISL in his renewal invite for November 2022:
When you purchase an insurance policy through us you will enter into separate 
contracts. The first contract is with the insurer providing your insurance and full 
details of your policy are set out in your Welcome Pack once you have renewed.
The second separate contract is with us for arranging and administering your 
insurance policy.
I understand Mr F doesnt agree. But for these reasons I can only consider his complaints 
against BISL. Mr F is free to raise a complaint against the insurer if he believes the price he 
was charged - and the amount of refund he received - is unfair. And if he remains unhappy 
with the handling of the claim, this is also a complaint he needs to raise against the insurer. 
When Mr F contacted BISL in October 2022 about his renewal, BISL has shown that it 
contacted the insurer for an update on the claim - and was advised that it was still open. 
Mr F contacted BISL again in January 2023 to tell it that the claim had been closed. BISL 
says that on reflection it should have chased the insurer since October 2022 for an update 
on the claim. And when the insurer confirmed the claim had been closed on a non-fault basis 
in January 2023, it should have made further enquiries about the change in premium and 
provided a refund to Mr F then. But in February 2023 BISL didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint - 
and I think this was unfair. 
As BISL arranged for the pro-rata refund of premium, it should have been more proactive 
with the insurer in finding out when it closed the claim so that was done at the time. 
However, I think for its poor service, BISLs offer to pay interest on the refund and 
compensation of £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused is reasonable to resolve Mr 
Fs complaint. 
As Ive said, how Mr Fs renewal premium was calculated, and the amount it decreased by 
when the claim was closed, is not a complaint BISL can answer as it isnt the insurer. So Mr 
F will need to contact the insurer about that. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
BISL Limited to pay interest on the refund of premium following the close of the open claim - 
and to pay Mr F £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its delay caused, if it 
hasnt already done so. 
BISL Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr F 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman