DRN-2188041
The complaint
C complains Royal & Sun Alliance Plc has unfairly named one of its directors in a record of a 
van insurance policy claim. 
Cs been represented in this complaint by the same director. Ive referred to him as Mr B. For 
simplicity Ive referred to his comments as being those of C. 
What happened
C had a van stolen. It claimed on its RSA van insurance policy. The claim was settled. But its 
unhappy with how the claim has been recorded by RSA. Mr B, a named driver on the policy, 
is recorded in an insurance industry database as the driver for the claim. C says this resulted 
in the cost of his personal motor insurance increasing. It says Mr B shouldnt be affected 
personally by the claim record. It says it owned the van and Mr B wasnt driving it at the time 
of theft. C feels its unreasonable that it pays more for cover, than a private individual, yet 
named drivers on the policy are held liable for incidents. 
RSA responded to Cs complaint. It said C had told it Mr B was the last driver of the van 
before it was stolen. It said the last person to drive the vehicle is recorded as the named 
driver for theft claims. It felt the claim had been recorded correctly.  
Our Investigator didnt think RSA had acted unfairly by recording Mr B as the driver for the 
claim. C didnt agree. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not making RSA do anything differently. 
Cs policy says information about incidents will be passed to various insurance databases  
including the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE). This is the database C is unhappy Mr B 
has been named on. It records various information about claims including the policy holder 
and driver. The two wont necessarily always be the same.  
Its standard practice for insurers to record on CUE the driver of the vehicle for an incident. 
Its information other insurers might be interested in when considering whether to offer cover 
or for what price. Insurers may or may not consider it an indicator of the risk profile of an 
applicant for insurance.   
The policyholder in this case is a limited company, not an individual. The vehicle belongs to 
the company, not Mr B. And it was parked at the companys address. C feels this means he 
shouldnt be recorded on CUE as involved with the claim. But as Ive said the driver, or last 
driver for theft claims, of a vehicle is something that might be of interest to other insurers  
regardless of whether the policyholder for the vehicle is an individual or company. 
In my experience its common practice for the last driver of a vehicle to recorded as the 
driver for a theft claim. That doesnt mean the driver is held at fault, liable or to blame for the 
loss. Instead its a record of who was using, or last using, the vehicle. But again, its 
something an insurer might be interested in when deciding whether to offer cover to that 
individual.  
C says it cant be known for sure that Mr B was the last driver before the theft. And it says 
RSA didnt directly ask C who the last driver was. So he shouldnt be logged as the driver. 
But in the notification of claim call C gave enough information for RSA to reasonably 
conclude Mr B was the last driver. It was told he was the main driver. That he had parked it 
outside his own house (the same address as Cs) before it was stolen. And that the only 
other named driver had said he hadnt used it. I accept it cant be known for absolute certain 
that Mr B was the last driver. But it seems most likely that he was.    
C says the policy terms dont state that RSA will record the last driver on a claim record. C 
feel it should be made clear during the sale of cover or in the policy terms that a named 
driver might be included as part of a claim record. Its not something Id expect RSA to 
explain explicitly. The terms do explain incident information will be passed on to various 
registers. I dont agree that RSA did anything wrong by not stating specifically that the driver 
of the vehicle might form part of that information.  
So I dont think RSA has acted unfairly or unreasonably by recording Mr B as the driver on 
the CUE claim record.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman