DRN-3453502
The complaint
Mr W complained about how esure Insurance Limited handled his claim under his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
After Mr W was in an accident his car was impounded by the police as it wasnt driveable. 
He said that esure couldnt tell him where his car was, and he had to chase them for updates 
on it. He felt that their service was poor and that they were too slow to obtain and act on 
supportive witness evidence. He was also unhappy that esure increased his premium at 
renewal shortly after the accident. 
esure said they hadnt yet decided liability for the accident. But because they accepted that 
theyd made some service mistakes they offered him compensation of £150. Mr W didnt 
think it was enough. 
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
esure had acted fairly in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy and that their 
compensation was reasonable. Mr W didnt agree and so his case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we dont decide who is at fault for causing an accident, as 
this is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this kind is simply to 
investigate whether esure have acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with their policys 
terms and conditions when dealing with a claim. 
Under Mr Ws policy esure have the right to defend or settle any claim on his behalf. They 
are entitled to admit negligence for any accident or claim. That means they might make a 
decision that Mr W disagrees with, but the policy allows them to do that. But in this case , 
esure hadnt yet decided liability for the incident, so Im not dealing with this as part of his 
complaint.
Mr W was unhappy because esure increased his policy premiums at renewal shortly after 
the incident. He felt this showed that they didnt believe him, and it made him feel like their 
enemy instead of a loyal customer. 
But as the investigator explained, when an insurer hadnt decided liability the claim is 
treated as remining open. Thats normal insurance practice because at that stage the 
insurer hasnt recovered its outlays. But once liability is decided, if its the third party whos 
liable, and the business can make full recovery from the third party, the insurer will change 
the claim status to recoverable and recalculate the premium and make any refund if 
necessary. So I dont think that esure have done anything wrong at this stage by increasing 
Mr Ws premium in the circumstances, as he should not be prejudiced if esure were to 
decide that he wasnt liable for the accident and can recover their outlays.
 
Mr W felt that esure had lost his car. It was impounded after the accident and he felt that 
esure didnt know what had happened to it and it took several weeks for them to find it . 
It seems that esure had his car moved from the pound to a salvage yard and Mr W found it 
there. Esure said theyd move it to their approved repairing garage for repair, but this took 
over a week and then it wasnt his car which arrived there. Esure did get his car to their 
garage some days later. But Mr W was unhappy that he had to keep chasing esure to find 
out what was happening, and theyd moved some personal items. Esure apologised for this 
and accepted they could have kept him better updated. They explained that it had happened 
because at the start theyd incorrectly recorded his car as a write off and so it had been sent 
to the salvage yard. But esure failed to communicate that to Mr W at the time and I can see 
why he was upset , particularly as he was in hospital at the time. Esure said that they would 
feed back to their agents about their service and they offered him £100 in compensation for 
the trouble and upset . They also gave him an upgraded specification of hire car while his 
own car was being repaired, and this was more than the smaller car he was entitled to under 
his policy. 
Mr W had a witness who thought that the third party had been speeding. The witness told 
Mr W that she had contacted esure with a verbal statement . But esure said they hadnt 
heard from her. So he thought that esure must have lost her statement, and he was 
unhappy that he had to chase them about this. 
But esure said as follows. They checked their records and they hadnt received calls from 
the witness when she said. They didnt usually take verbal statements and the reference 
numbers shed given werent esures references. They suspected the witness might have 
been talking to another insurer instead of them.
Esure did then get a statement from the witness. Mr W he felt the witness supported his 
view that he wasnt to blame for the accident. But esure explained that they didnt think the 
witness evidence conclusively established liability. They said that a court would consider 
the evidence overall, and someones opinion about speed may not be seen in court as 
outweighing the effect of other evidence such as that about road layout and what danger 
there was to the vehicles involved. They thought it may still be that Mr W had failed to give 
way to the right at a roundabout. Esure accepted theyd not been as pro-active as they 
could have been regarding getting the witness evidence and did offer Mr W a further £50 
compensation for his trouble and upset. But they didnt think that it had prejudiced his claim 
as the evidence wasnt conclusive and his claim was still to be decided. I dont think that 
was unreasonable. 
Mr W said he didnt hear from esure for months and he felt he had to chase them too much, 
and that esure made him feel like the enemy. I can see that he found that distressing. I do 
think that esure could have dealt with things better. However I think that esure did 
apologise for the failings they accepted, and they gave him an upgraded hire car , and the 
£150 compensation they offered overall was reasonable in the circumstances. And so, 
while I would expect esure to pay Mr W the £150 if they havent already done that, I dont 
require esure to do anything else.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, above its my final decision that I dont uphold this 
complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
