DRN-2724609
The complaint
Mr A complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) wont cover the cost 
of repairs to his truck after it was damaged following a claim made on his motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr As truck was recovered from abroad by LV. Mr A said the truck had been damaged 
during the recovery and he wanted LV to pay for its repair. LV appointed an independent 
assessor to inspect the truck. He agreed that there had been damage during recovery to the 
rear spoiler and light bar. He couldnt determine whether the suspension and wheel hub had 
also been damaged during recovery, but LV agreed to pay for their repair as a gesture of 
goodwill. And the assessor couldnt say that the seats or audio system had been damaged 
during the recovery. Mr A was unhappy with this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
wasnt enough evidence to show that it was unreasonable for LV to decline to pay for the 
additional repairs. 
Mr A replied that hed told LV about the suspension damage when the truck was delivered 
undriveable. He thought there was further unrepaired damage to the suspension. He thought 
the collection document should have recorded all the damage and LV should also have 
inspected the car on delivery. He said the independent assessor was sent a year after he 
complained about the suspension. He thought it was unfair to rely on his incomplete 
assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said he first found that his truck had been damaged by the recovery when the garage it 
was recovered to informed him of damage to the light bar and the suspension. 
It was then five months before Mr A saw his truck and it was in the care of the garage for this 
time. Mr A then found that there was damage to the drivers seat and the audio system, and 
that the suspension was clunking. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. 
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional 
repairs.
Ive looked at the evidence that LV had available in making its decision about which repairs it 
was responsible for. 
LV firstly asked Mr A to provide an estimate for the repairs of the damage done to his truck 
for its consideration. As Mr A didnt respond immediately, it presumed the repairs had been 
made and it then asked for an invoice for the work done. I cant say this was unfair. 
Mr A has provided the collection note from the recovery company. I can see that theres no 
record of any damage to the truck apart from the engine failure that caused the call-out. 
But the recovery company also provided photographs of the truck taken at the time of 
recovery. LV relied on these to decide that it was responsible for the damage to the rear tail 
light bar. I think that was fair and reasonable. 
But LV didnt accept responsibility for the other damage Mr A had reported. LV then 
appointed an independent assessor to carry out a desk top review of the various emails, 
photographs and invoices. By error, he arranged with Mr A to physically inspect the truck. 
When theres a dispute between an insurer and a customer about repairs, we think its good 
practice for an independent assessor to provide a report to try and settle the dispute. So I 
think it was fair and reasonable for LV to instruct him. 
As our investigator has already explained, if Mr A disagrees with the assessors report, then 
he should provide a report from a suitably qualified independent engineer to support this. But 
I cant see that hes done so. 
The assessor thought the seat damage was old. He couldnt decide whether there was 
damage to the cars audio system as the cars battery was flat. The damaged suspension 
and hub had already been replaced so he couldnt comment on the cause. 
Mr A agreed with the assessor that it would be hard to link the steering issues to the 
recovery. He told LV:
The only thing I agree with him, was that regarding the problem of steering turning, that the 
mechanic in order for him to remove and refit a engine, he had to disconnect and reconnect 
the steering column and as a result that maybe difficult to ascribe the problem with the 
steering and turning to LV.
LV agreed to cover the cost of the garages repairs to the suspension and hub. I can see that 
Mr A thinks there has been further unrepaired damage. But I think its reasonable for LV to 
rely on the invoice provided by his garage as evidence of the repairs needed. I cant see that 
Mr A has provided any further evidence for it to consider. If the repairs caused further 
damage, then I think this is a matter for Mr A to take up with the garage. 
Mr A provided photographs of the interior of the truck taken some time before the incident. 
But I dont think these are enough to show that the recovery damaged the interior. 
Mr A thought it was unfair for the onus to be placed on him to show that the trucks seat and 
audio system had been damaged during the recovery. But I think its for him to show that he 
has a valid claim. And, without evidence to show this, I cant say that it was unfair or 
unreasonable for LV to decline to pay for these repairs. 
In summary, I think LV has reasonably considered the evidence available and justified its 
decision not to pay for further repairs to Mr As truck. I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman