DRN-4141934
The complaint
 Mr A complains that a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement (HPA) with First 
Response Finance Limited (FRF) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like to reject the car or to 
split the cost of the repair with FRF paying 80% of the repair cost and Mr A the remainder .
What happened
Mr A said he took out his HPA at the end of  March 2022. This was for a 4-year-old car with 
138,000 miles on the clock. He says in June 2022 a routine service identified a gearbox fault 
and advised further inspection of the gearbox and chains. He says the car broke down in 
August 2022 at which point he complained to FRF. Mr A said he has provided various 
reports which confirm an issue with the timing chain which had broken.
FRF said that Mr A took out an agreement for a used car with significant mileage therefore 
couldnt expect it to be the same standard as a new model. It felt the mileage was above 
average for the age of the car. It acknowledged the report Mr A supplied indicated, from the 
cars first service, that  the gearbox and chains needed further inspection but noted that Mr A 
didnt advise First Response of this. Nor did he arrange the suggested inspection but instead 
carried on using the car driving a further 4000 miles until August 2022 when the car broke 
down.
FRF commissioned an independent report with ACE which concluded that the timing chain 
issue arose post sale and wasnt an unexpected issue for a car of this mileage and age. It 
pointed out Mr A had an active warranty that might help  with the cost and it offered to loan 
Mr A funds on an interest free basis to cover any repair costs.
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
Mr A took out an agreement in March 2022  for a used car with significant mileage at 
the point of sale. A routine service in June 2022 identified a gearbox fault and 
recommended further inspection of the gearbox and chains. Mr A didnt follow 
through on these recommendations neither did he advise FRF of an issue with the 
car at this point. 
I was surprised Mr A continued to use his car driving a further 4000 miles until the car 
broke down in August 2022 , rather than seeking the further suggested inspection.
The June service also  identified some issues such as the need for new brake and 
disc pads which I considered to be normal wear and tear and not issues that FRF 
would be responsible for, given Mr A had  use of the car for at least two months by 
the time these issues were identified. However, this report also confirmed a noise 
from the engine and said the gearbox needed removing for further inspection. A 
report in August 2022 drew the same conclusion on the need for further inspection
FRF then arranged an independent inspection which is what I would have expected it 
to do given the break down occurred within six months of Mr A having the car when 
we usually say its the business responsibility to see if there are any point-of-sale 
issues for which it is responsible.
The independent inspection took place in August 2022. The inspection report, which I 
read,  concluded the timing issue arose post sale and wasnt an unexpected issue 
given the age and mileage of the car.
Mr A also had the car further inspected in December 2022 ; I believe at his own cost . 
That concluded that  the timing chain issue was present at the point of sale.
Taking all this information into account I was persuaded that it was more likely than 
not that the timing chain was failing at the point of sale.
However, I was persuaded by FRFs argument that had Mr A  raised this issue with 
FRF at that time or sought , as advised, a further inspection that any problem with the 
timing chain could have been resolved at that point. Instead Mr A continued to drive a 
further 4000 miles until the car broke down. I thought in doing so the repair costs 
would be significantly higher than if he had dealt with the issue when it first arose in 
June 2022. And it was  likely that because of Mr As actions that repair costs would 
include  some consequential damage that I didnt think it was reasonable for FRF to 
cover.
I didnt think it was fair to allow Mr A to reject the car  because I thought he 
significantly contributed to the problem by continuing to drive the car.  But I did think 
FRF had some responsibility for the timing chain issue
FRF had indicated it would be willing to contribute to the cost of repair which I 
thought was  appropriate. So, we asked FRF what it was willing to contribute.  It  
offered £1250 but on the basis Mr A made good his finance agreement, as I 
understood he had stopped making payments. 
I thought the sum FRF offered was fair. But I didnt think it was fair to make it 
conditional on Mr A making good his finance agreement. If Mr A hasnt made 
payments thats a separate issue for FRF to deal with in its usual way. However, if Mr 
A is behind with his payments I thought it was reasonable for the £1250 to be taken 
off what he owed, if he is up to date with his payments then the £1250 should be paid 
direct to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr A and BMF have responded to my provisional decision.
BMF confirmed receipt of the provisional decision, it neither accepted nor rejected it , but  
stated it has no further comments to make for me to consider.
Mr A didnt accept my provisional decision which  I do understand as I appreciate it would 
have come as a disappointment to him.
Mr A made a number of comments which I would like to reassure him that I have carefully 
considered. 
I do appreciate the challenging personal circumstances Mr A has shared with us, but I have 
no evidence that FRF deliberately delayed dealing with Mr As complaint leading to some of 
his personal and financial issues. As the issues arose within six months of Mr A getting the 
car it was FRFs responsibility to investigate but Its not unusual for a business to ask for 
some initial evidence of what the fault is before arranging an independent inspection If Mr A finds himself in financial difficulty in meeting his payments that isnt  grounds for me 
to uphold his complaint in the way he would like by allowing him to reject the car and cancel 
his finance agreement. But Mr A can discuss his financial situation with FRF. We do expect 
businesses to deal positively and sympathetically with consumers who have financial 
problems -   that doesnt mean we expect them to write off agreements, but FRF  might be 
able to agree a repayment plan that meets its and Mr As needs. I would urge Mr A, or a 
representative for Mr A to discuss this with FRF.
Mr A has raised some other issues for example a discrepancy in mileage figures of 695 
miles on the invoice for the car. I was aware of this when I considered Mr As complaint, but I 
didnt and dont think its relevant to the fact there was an issue with the timing chain.
Mr A has also listed work needing to be carried out on the car and also referred to excessive 
oil consumption.  This information was available to me when I made my provisional decision. 
I am still of the view that the list of work identified in June 2022 included some items such as 
replacement disc and brake pad and a blocked filter are items  which would usually be 
considered as wear and tear items for which the consumer not the business would be 
responsible.
Other items included worn engine mounts and the need for a replacement diesel particulate 
filter and Nox sensor.  The list also significantly  included the removal of the gearbox for 
inspection. 
However, Mr A didnt arrange a further inspection as advised, neither did he raise potential 
issues with the car at that time. Had he done so I think FRF would have investigated and , if 
appropriate, resolved these. I am still of the view that in not doing this Mr A made any issues 
with the car worse by continuing to drive it ,particularly as I understand he didnt have any of 
the suggested repair work carried out.. 
I appreciate Mr A has told us he didnt know at the time of the first service he could raise a 
complaint or ask to reject the car. But I dont think its unreasonable that so soon after getting 
the car that he might have looked into what his options were for raising his concerns. And 
whilst I appreciate Mr As points that he didnt have the funds to cover the work he has told 
us was needed I think it was reasonable to at least follow the advice for a further inspection. 
I am still of the view that in continuing to use the car knowing there were some potential 
issues with it only made matters worse.
I cant comment on Mr A surmising about the lack of maintenance by the previous owner of 
the car as I have no objective information to consider in that regard. 
I have carefully considered all the points that Mr A has raised but unfortunately I dont feel I 
have any grounds to change my original findings. I do think there was a point-of-sale issue 
with the timing chain for which FRF is responsible. But I think Mr As continued use of the car 
despite being advised to have a further inspection would have made any issues worse, 
would likely have led to consequential damage and to more significant repair costs. I think 
FRFs offer to contribute £1250 to the cost of repairs is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint .
In full and final settlement  First Response Finance Limited should:-
if Mr A is behind with his monthly payments reduce the amount he owes by £1250if Mr A is up to date with his monthly payments pay him £1250 as a contribution 
towards the repair of the timing chain
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman