DRN-4002074
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Society of Lloyds (SOL) unfairly declined a claim for fire damage 
under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E contacted SOL to make a claim following a fire at his home. SOL investigated the claim 
and assessed that the damage was the result of the use of a fire in Mr Es home. SOL 
declined the claim on the basis of an endorsement in the policy that said it wouldnt cover 
claims in these circumstances.
When Mr E complained, SOL maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mr E 
complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the policy 
endorsement was clear and Mr E should have been aware of it. She said it was fair for SOL 
to decline the claim.
As Mr E didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive listened to the phone call in which Mr E requested a quote for a policy. Mr E was asked 
whether he had any open fires or wood burners. He replied no. The call handler confirmed 
with Mr E that there were no chimneys in use at the property.
Ive also listened to the phone call when Mr E agreed to take out the policy. The call handler 
said to Mr E that because there were no chimneys in use:
I just have to point out that there have been added an endorsement to that effect. They 
won't cover any fire that originates out of the use of a wood burning stove or open fire 
chimney.
Following this, and confirmation of other policy details, Mr E agreed to take out the policy. Mr 
E was sent the policy documents. The policy schedule included a Blocked Chimney 
Endorsement and said:
We will not pay for any loss or damage arising from the cause of fire in the event of that fire 
having originated out of the use of a wood burning stove or open fire chimney.
Mr E later made a claim for a fire under the policy. He told SOL he thought the fire had 
started due to a fire he had lit in the fireplace in the lounge. Im aware that Mr E later said 
that this might not have been the cause and there were other possibilities, such as issues 
with the electrics. SOL also investigated the cause of the fire. It found that the likely cause 
was sparks or hot gasses escaping from a defect in the chimney or sparks or burning 
embers emitted from the outlet of the chimney that landed on the surface of the roof.
Im aware Mr E has said the endorsement only appeared on the policy schedule and not in 
the policy booklet. The policy booklet described the standard policy terms. The endorsement 
was added to the policy based on the information provided by Mr E about the property. So, it 
was added to the schedule in the section that described the endorsements on the policy. 
The endorsement was also described to Mr E over the phone before he agreed to take out 
the policy. So, I think Mr E was provided with sufficient information about the endorsement 
and that he should have been aware of it.
So, having thought about this carefully, I think it was reasonable for SOL to decide that the 
endorsement applied and for it to decline the claim. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint 
or require SOL to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman