DRN-3933264
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Premier 
packaged account in April 2012.
Mr C says that he didnt understand English very well at the time and says that Lloyds took 
advantage of the fact that he didnt speak English. Mr C says he understood from what he 
was told that it would be good for his credit. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the account had 
been mis-sold.
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
incomplete  as is the case here, I have to decide what I think most likely happened, based 
on everything that is available. And having considered everything, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Mr C says that the account was mis-sold essentially because he says he didnt speak 
English very well and therefore didnt understand what he was agreeing to. Mr C says Lloyds 
took advantage of him because of this.
Of course, it is difficult for me to be able to say with any certainty how good Mr Cs English 
was in April 2012. However, when considering what Mr C has said, I note that he says he 
took out a packaged account with two other UK banks previously  one of which he says he 
took out in 2005.
So taking this background information into account, it seems likely that Mr C understood the 
concept of a packaged account, given that hed had them with other providers for many 
years by that point. And given that he was able to take out other financial products with 
Lloyds (such as savings accounts, life insurance and credit cards) shortly after opening the 
account; and he was able to go on to register a phone under the mobile phone insurance, 
Im not persuaded by his argument that he didnt understand what hed been sold. On the 
contrary, whilst I appreciate that English may not have been Mr Cs first language, the 
evidence from the time makes me think it more likely that he had a fairly good appreciation 
of what he was agreeing to and possibly even agreed to the Premier account specifically to 
replicate i.e. replace, the benefits he received on his existing packaged account with another 
bank.
Therefore, on balance, I think that Mr C was given a fair choice and he was aware he didnt 
have to agree to the packaged account if he didnt want it.
The account was recommended to Mr C. This meant Lloyds had to make sure the account 
was appropriate for his circumstances. However, Mr C says he didnt need the benefits as 
he didnt own a car or house and his phone wasnt a smartphone.
When the account was sold to Mr C it cost £25 per month, and provided benefits such as 
worldwide travel insurance, mobile phone insurance, enhanced levels of breakdown cover, 
home emergency cover. It also provided other benefits such as a £500 interest free overdraft 
facility, with preferential interest rates on overdrawn balances above this amount (up to the 
agree limit).
I can see that shortly after the sale, Mr C registered a mobile phone under the Premier 
account phone insurance. He then went on to register another handset in June 2013. 
Therefore, although Mr C says he didnt have a smart phone at the time, the fact that he 
went to the effort of registering a phone shortly after opening the account makes me think he 
was attracted to the mobile phone insurance benefit. 
I also note that when Mr C opened the account, he applied for an arranged overdraft limit of 
£1,000, and this was increased a short while later to £3,000. As he did this so soon after 
opening the account this makes me think that the overdraft was an important feature for Mr 
C. And bearing this in mind, I think that the overdraft benefit  combined with the other 
benefits he was able to use - was likely to have been of interest to him and a reason why he 
chose to take out a Premier account over a fee-free account. I say this especially as he says 
he was told during the sale that the account would be good for his credit  so its possible 
that Mr C is in fact referring to what he was told about the overdraft features that came with 
the account. I also havent seen anything to suggest that the travel insurance provided with 
the account was unsuitable for Mr C, so I cant rule out the possibility that this mayve also 
been of interest to him.
As such, whilst I recognise that Mr C may not have needed all of the benefits that the 
account came with when it was sold to him  that doesnt necessarily mean it was mis-sold 
as it was sold as a package  so Mr C was not able to pick and choose what it came with. 
Nevertheless, as it appears that Mr C was able to benefit from a number of the features of 
the account, based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that Lloyds recommendation was 
inappropriate in the circumstances.
Finally, as well as checking that the account would be good for Mr C, Lloyds also had to 
provide Mr C with all of the important information about the account. This was so that he 
understood what he was agreeing to. 
The documents from the point of sale indicate that Mr C was provided with a fair amount of 
information about the account  this includes information about the overdraft charges and 
the insurance benefits (contained in a welcome pack). It also indicates that Lloyds had 
checked that Mr C didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions which may affect his 
cover under the travel insurance. And as mentioned above, Mr C went on to register a phone 
for it to be covered, a short time after the sale. So taking all of this together, its clear that he 
was given a fair amount of information about the account and the associated benefits before 
he agreed to it.
Due to the lack of information about what exactly was discussed during the sale, I accept its 
possible that Mr C wasnt given all of the important information about the account benefits 
during the sale. But having said that, Ive not seen anything about Mr Cs circumstances at 
the time that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the Premier account, 
had he been given even more information about it. 
So overall, based on everything that has been provided, Im unable to conclude that the 
Premier account was likely to have been mis-sold.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman