DRN-3478518
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain the valuation Market Harborough Building Society (MH) organised 
for their bridging loan was not a fair and reasonable valuation  they say the valuation was 
artificially low.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs H purchased a property and wanted MH to provide a bridging 
loan for the property. In order for MH to agree to lend, it wanted a valuation carried out.
Mr and Mrs H said they wanted it noted they had no say in who was chosen and paid the fee 
of £495. They said their estate agent valued the property at £800,000, the valuation given 
was £650,000, and the property eventually sold for £755,000 a year later.
Mr and Mrs H said they knew MH might find a valuation, for loan purposes, as less than their 
estate agents value of the property. And theyve said had MH said this is why the value is 
£650,000, rather than a valuation nearer what the property sold for later on was, then theyd 
have accepted this. They felt the valuation provided should have been closer to the market 
value  with MH then making an offer based on criteria that may have been lower than that 
within their literature.
Mr and Mrs H say they ended up applying for substantially less than the valuation sum, but 
because of the lower valuation, they were offered a lower amount of lending than initially 
thought  and this caused them some difficulties. The property was sold in 2019 for 
£755,000, and it was after this they complained about the valuation.
MH replied to Mr and Mrs H. It said the valuation is purely for mortgage purposes, it can 
choose who to use and the valuation company had their own internal audit procedures to 
check on valuations. It added to put their valuation in to context, their estate agent originally 
said £800,000 with the variance between this and the mortgage valuation of £650,000 being 
19%. But, the difference between the mortgage valuation and sale price of £755,000 was 
only 14%. So, MH felt these were acceptable differences, and didnt think the surveyor or it 
to be negligent.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs H asked us to look into things. In doing so, they said MH 
asked the original surveyor for their comments, which was understandable  but felt MH 
should have a more robust and possibly independent mechanism in place to investigate 
these matters. 
They asked us to consider three issues:
Was the valuation reasonable?
Was MHs response to their complaint robust enough?
They also asked a wider picture question  about lenders offering a lower valuation 
by default
One of our Investigators looked into things but didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. So, 
the complaints now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr and Mrs H have made it clear what the issues are in their complaint they want 
considered  while also saying they understand they dont need to have a say in who deals 
with the valuation. So, Ill address each point theyve made in turn.
Was the valuation reasonable?
In short, I dont think thats a question I can answer. I say that because when thinking about 
mortgage valuation complaints most of the time the factors were looking at are whether the 
lender has acted reasonably. But, their responsibility doesnt often extend to whether a fair 
valuation has been provided or not  and I cant see any reason why it would in this case.
Mr and Mrs H have approached MH to provide them with a bridging loan for a property 
theyd already bought at auction. As part of MHs lending process it instructed an 
independent surveyor to conduct a valuation report.
Ive seen a copy of the report  and this makes it clear the purpose of the report is to provide 
a valuation for MHs purposes. This is so it can decide how much itd be willing to lend.
I cant see anything to suggest that, at the time of the valuation being carried out, MH took 
an active role in valuing Mr and Mrs Hs property.
Because of this, in effect, MHs responsibility only extends to whether it recruited an 
appropriate expert to carry out this task. And if it did, I dont think it would be unreasonable 
for MH to rely on the opinion of that independent expert.
I can see all parties agree the company was part of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS). They are a UK based professional body for surveyors. So, I cant 
reasonably say MH have been negligent in who it appointed. 
I think in appointing a RICS company, MH has carried out its responsibilities appropriately  
so, I cant say MH has treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly on this point. And I think it has acted 
fairly by relying on the valuation it was provided when making its lending decision.
Was MHs response to their complaint robust enough?
I understand Mr and Mrs Hs concerns about this  and Ive seen their arguments saying 
referring their concerns about the valuation company to the valuation company isnt right.
Ultimately, it isnt for me to decide or really even comment on MHs complaint process. My 
only role really is to consider whether MH have treated Mr and Mrs H fairly. As Ive explained 
above, I think they have.
They also asked a wider picture question  about lenders offering a lower valuation by 
default
I do understand Mr and Mrs H have concerns regarding this, but our role is to address each 
individual complaint. So, we cant look at wider lending practices as Mr and Mrs H have 
suggested.And, as Ive mentioned above, lenders dont decide the valuation  the independent surveyor 
does this, and lenders factor this into their lending decisions.
Responses to my provisional decision
MH acknowledged my provisional decision but didnt have anything further to add.
Mr and Mrs H provided a reply, and said they disagreed on the following points:
They didnt think MHs liability only extended to whether it recruited an appropriate 
expert  they felt MH were responsible for the valuation however it was obtained.
They were surprised by my comment saying its not for me to decide on MHs 
complaints handling process. They said the only inference that can be drawn is 
should a financial business have a complaints procedure, and use it, that we wont 
consider it.
They also reiterated their thoughts that MH asked for a payment for the valuation, so 
that makes them responsible  and, in turn, makes our service responsible for 
considering this.
Overall, Mr and Mrs H said they entered into a contract with MH, no one else. They say the 
service was poor, and the complaint raised wasnt dealt with properly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Hs points about the valuation, but I still dont agree. 
The service Mr and Mrs H wanted to obtain from MH was a bridging loan. Before a loan 
could be provided, MH required a valuation for its purposes. And a term of the application 
was that Mr and Mrs H would pay for that. And the application could not have gone ahead 
without them doing so. But them paying for the valuation didnt change that the valuation 
carried out was for MHs purposes. It wasnt for the benefit of Mr and Mrs H. MH werent 
contracted by Mr and Mrs H to provide them with a valuation they could use for their 
purposes, nor were the surveyors. So, MH was not responsible for carrying out the valuation, 
or its content. It was responsible for fairly considering the application for a bridging loan.
Part of that extended to making sure that the company it used to carry out the valuation was 
suitably qualified  so that MH was using correct information when considering the 
application. And as Ive explained, the valuer appointed was in my view suitably qualified. 
So, overall, in terms of the valuation, Ive seen no reason to change my thoughts  by 
appointing a RICS approved surveyor, MH carried out its responsibilities appropriately.
And Im not too sure what Mr and Mrs H mean about me not being able to take into account 
the complaint handling processes. Ultimately, Im looking at whether a fair and reasonable 
outcome has been provided to Mr and Mrs H  and for the reasons Ive explained above I 
think it has been.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman