DRN-2610741
The complaint
Ms M complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) continued to report a debt 
on her credit file and to send her letters about the debt, despite the agreement being 
unwound after a decision by this service. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
In March 2019, when this service told Oodle to allow Ms M to reject a car she had been 
financing through them, we told Oodle to unwind the finance agreement. But they had 
difficulty getting the funds back for the car when the dealership went into administration.
That meant that the balance on Ms Ms account wasnt cleared. Oodle continued to send 
statements of account and notices of default to Ms M and continued to report the account on 
her credit file.
It wasnt Ms Ms fault that Oodle couldnt get the funds back from the dealership. They have 
a responsibility to report Ms Ms credit performance accurately and as Ms M no longer had a 
debt with them they should have removed the record from her credit file.
So, Ive considered the impact this mistake had on Ms M. Ive not seen any evidence that the 
balance remaining on her file has had any detrimental effect on her ability to obtain credit or 
that she has been unable to obtain favourable terms, and Ive not seen any evidence of 
financial loss. 
Oodle explained that the notice of sums in arrears generated in April 2019 was done 
automatically before they could respond to our March 2019 decision and they explain early 
on to Ms M that, whilst statements needed to be generated, she had no liability for the debt. 
They also provided information so that Ms M could ask the credit reference agencies to 
apply a notice of correction.
Oodle have apologised for any distress and inconvenience caused. I think, in the 
circumstances, there has been limited impact on Ms M and Oodles apology is sufficient.
Im not therefore asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman