DRN-3610583
The complaint
Mr G complains that an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Services Ltd gave him 
unsuitable advice to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme and a personal pension plan to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
A law firm have helped Mr G to bring this complaint. But, for ease of reading, I will refer to 
the law firms comments as being Mr Gs.
It was Quilters appointed representative, rather than Quilter itself which gave Mr G advice. 
But as Quilter is responsible for responding to the complaint, I will refer to the appointed 
representatives comments and actions as being Quilters.
What happened
In 2016 Mr G and Quilter discussed his pension and retirement needs. Exactly who 
instigated the meeting is disputed. But, in April 2016, Mr G signed a form giving Quilter 
authority to proceed  and he agree to pay a fee of £5,000 for its advice together with a 
charge of 0.5% from his pension fund for ongoing service. 
Quilter completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Gs circumstances, objectives 
and attitude to risk. It also gathered evidence from Mr Gs two pension schemes and it 
obtained a pension transfer value report. Amongst other things Quilter found:
Mr G was 56 years old, he was engaged but he and his fianc lived separately and 
weren't financially dependent on each other.
In 2012 Mr G had an accident causing catastrophic spinal injuries. He spent a long-
time in hospital. He couldnt continue his former job resulting in a large drop in 
income. He uses a wheelchair and has other related long-term health conditions. 
Mr G lived in adapted rented accommodation but wanted to move home.
He had two jobs earning around £23,300 a year. He also had benefit income of 
around £7,260 a year.
He had regular outgoings of around £20,160 a year.
He had dets totalling around £15,000 that were managed by an individual voluntary 
arrangement (IVA). He was repaying his debts at a cost of £360 a month. 
He had no savings.
His DB pension scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £150,075 
from which he could draw an income immediately of £5,215 or at age 60 he could 
take an income of £6,561.
The critical yield (the growth rate required to match the benefits from the DB scheme) 
was 35.3%.
Mr Gs personal pension had a total value of £32,181.
Quilter assessed Mr Gs attitude to risk as dynamic, which was its second highest 
risk category.
On 7 July Quilter sent Mr G a suitability report advising him to transfer his pension benefits 
into a named SIPP. Amongst other things the suitability report said that Mr Gs principal goal 
was to be able to pay off his debts and to use tax free cash (TFC) from his pensions for a 
deposit and to attract borrowing to buy and adapt his own home. It said Mr G could release 
around £45,500 TFC and by doing so Quilter thought Mr G could secure a mortgage and 
afford a property up to a value of around £160,000.
Quilter added that the attitude to risk questionnaire Mr G had completed assessed him as 
being an adventurous investor. But with his agreement it had reduced that assessment to 
dynamic. It said that given the extent of the guaranteed income the DB scheme offered it 
would not recommend a transfer purely on this basis. But it said that as Mr G wanted to 
draw benefits straightaway the guaranteed income was not the only factor to consider. 
The suitability report said that if Mr G chose to take TFC, he could take £31,996 from his DB 
scheme at age 60 but that would reduce his annual pension from £6,561 to £4,799. But if he 
transferred his DB scheme funds to an alternative pension then he could take £40,350 at 
age 60 with an income of £2,600 a year. He could take £37,543 TFC immediately by 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
Quilter said the critical yield was too high to be matched by transferring Mr Gs DB pension 
to an alternative arrangement. But it said the transfer value analysis report which had 
produced the critical yield calculation was based on Mr G taking an annuity, which he didnt 
intend to do. So it stressed that the significance of the figures from the value analysis report 
may be limited. 
Quilter cautioned that to buy an annuity that would match his DB benefits straightaway could 
cost Mr G £256,770. The transfer value from Mr Gs DB scheme was £150,075. But Quilter 
said that one of the main benefits of transferring away from the DB scheme was the flexibility 
it gave to take his pension in the format he wished. There was no need for Mr G to buy an 
annuity but he needed to be aware that he would be giving up guaranteed benefits from the 
DB scheme by transferring. 
Quilter ran through some annuity options including buying a level annuity, which didnt 
increase with time. It produced a table comparing Mr Gs potential income from his DB 
scheme, beginning on £5,215 at age 56 and increasing over time, against a level annuity of 
£8,533. It showed that by age 76 Mr Gs DB pension income would still be behind the level 
annuity giving a yearly income of £8,218. It said that while an annuity wouldn't give Mr G the 
flexibility he was looking for it would provide a guaranteed income.
Quilter added that the DB scheme would pay a pension to a spouse in the event of his 
death. But it said Mr G liked the idea of leaving the balance of his pension to his adult sons 
on his death. That wasnt an option if he remained in his DB scheme.
The suitability report also said that while Mr G could take benefits from his DB scheme early, 
he wouldnt be able to take all of it. That was because hed transferred funds from another 
scheme (the previous pension) into his DB scheme and he couldnt access the benefits from 
that previous pension until age 60. Also, if he were to draw his DB pension from the scheme 
early, he wouldn't be able to take any TFC. That was because the DB scheme 
administrators wanted to ensure he had enough funds for the scheme to pay him his 
guaranteed minimum pension (GMP  the lowest amount his pension must pay him) at age 
65. 
Quilter said Mr G couldnt meet his objectives of paying off his debts and buying a house 
without taking the benefits from both his pension funds. It said that paying off his debts could 
save him £4,320 a year in repayments. It noted that Mr Gs view was that while the guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme were valuable they would not allow him to fulfil his 
immediate objectives.
When Quilter sent Mr G its suitability report the covering email asked him to reply confirming 
hed read and understood the report. It also asked him to explain why it would benefit him to 
transfer out of the scheme, that he was aware of the risks he would be taking and why he 
wanted to go ahead. 
Mr G replied. He said he wanted to pay off his debts and move house. To do so he needed 
around £45,000 from his two pension pots. His DB scheme wouldnt pay him TFC at that 
time so he needed to transfer away. He said he fully understood the risks but the flexibility of 
transferring to an alternative pension was his only option to become fully independent 
again. He added that he understood he was giving up guaranteed risk free income of 
£5,215 a year immediately or £6,932 from 60 which increased in line with inflation. He said 
he was aware that an alternative fund could go down in value or the money could run out. 
Having reviewed the report Mr G was happy to go ahead with the transfer. 
Quilter then arranged for Mr Gs personal pension fund of £32,481 to be transferred to the 
SIPP in August 2016. The DB scheme fund  which was revalued to £177,556  was 
transferred to the named SIPP in September 2016. Mr G then took TFC totalling £52,509 
from it. 
In January 2018 Mr G instructed another financial advice firm to act for him. He was 
contacted a couple of months later by another firm, Ill refer to as Firm L. Firm L persuaded 
Mr G to take his funds from the named SIPP and reinvest it into an unregulated scheme. I 
understand that Mr G has since lost most of those funds. 
In 2020 Mr G complained to Quilter. Amongst other things he said:
Quilters advice wasnt suitable.
He hadn't wanted to take any risk with his pension.
Given his lack of investment experience Quilters assessment of his attitude to risk as 
dynamic was outstanding. He wasnt in a position to rebuild any losses to his 
pension funds. 
Quilters advice didnt comply with the regulators guidance or principles.
The investment portfolio his funds were transferred to wasnt suitable for his attitude 
to risk.
He used his TFC to pay off debts and to buy a mobility car but he hadn't been able to 
buy a property.
Quilters suitability report was confusing and contradictory and didnt communicate in 
a way that was clear, fair and not misleading.
If Quilter had fully considered Mr Gs needs it wouldnt have recommended the DB 
transfer. And if he hadn't transferred he wouldnt have lost the funds. 
Quilter should have identified that Mr G was vulnerable. It should have warned him 
that fraudsters could encourage him to make unsuitable investments.
In December 2020 Quilter replied. It didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Amongst other things it 
said:
The initial outcome of its assessment of Mr Gs attitude to risk was that he was 
adventurous but following discussion it had downgraded that to dynamic. 
Mr G had some investment experience and kept abreast of investment issues. He 
was not risk averse.Quilters suitability report warned, several times, that the critical yields were unlikely 
to be achieved and that it wouldnt recommend a transfer based solely on Mr Gs risk 
profile. 
Quilter was satisfied it had complied with all regulatory requirements.
Mr Gs main aim wasnt to ensure his standard of living in retirement but to pay off 
debts and to provide a deposit to buy a property.
He had an immediate need for a cash lump sum which wasnt available through his 
DB scheme. His only option was to use his pension fund. So the transfer was in his 
best interests.
Quilter put its recommendation to Mr G in person and went through it in detail and 
explained anything Mr G wasnt clear about. 
After receiving the suitability report Mr G emailed Quilter to confirm he understood 
the recommendation, the risks involved and what he was giving up.
It said Mr G implied that Quilter was to blame for him losing money to fraudsters. It 
said that allegation was without foundation.
Mr G referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators upheld it and required 
Quilter to pay compensation. In short he said that the starting point for an advising firm is to 
consider that a transfer won't be suitable. In Mr Gs case, given the high critical yields, it was 
unlikely that Mr G could match the benefits from his DB scheme once hed transferred out of 
it. Instead of transferring out of his DB scheme, Mr G could have taken TFC from his 
personal pension of around £8,000. And taken the balance owing on his IVA as a taxable 
sum from his personal pension.
The investigator added that, while Mr G wanted to buy a property at the time of the advice he 
hadn't identified a house to buy. Mr G said he was looking to move in the next 12 to 18 
months. So he didnt know how much he would need to buy a house. In those circumstances 
it wasnt in his best interests to transfer his main source of retirement income. In the 
intervening 18 months his circumstances could have changed and he might no longer have 
needed to make the DB transfer. Also, once hed paid off his debts he would have had a 
surplus income from which to save for a deposit and he would have had the funds left over in 
his personal pension. And once hed found a property to buy he could have looked again at 
his position and decided at that point if he wanted to transfer out of the DB scheme. So the 
transfer wasnt appropriate at that time. 
Quilter didnt provide a substantive response to the investigators assessment of the 
complaint; so it was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr G and Quilter have made many points in bringing the complaint and in replying to it. 
I've considered carefully everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to address each 
and every issue or point raised. Instead I will focus on the issues that are at the heart of 
Mr Gs complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilters actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Quilter 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Gs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
Quilter gave its advice during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr G was 56 at the time of the advice and had no intention of retiring before age 66 at the 
earliest. The critical yield required to match Mr Gs benefits at age 60 was 35.3% if he took a 
full pension and 31% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection growth rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, 
and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Gs 
 at best  medium attitude to risk (which I will address in more detail below) and also the 
term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr G giving up the guarantees available to 
him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 31%, I think Mr G was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result 
of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
Quilter has provided cashflow models which it says show Mr G wouldve been able to meet 
his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but I'm not persuaded the models Quilter has used are fully representative of Mr Gs position. And I dont think its 
brought all the information he needed to make an informed decision to his attention. 
Quilter did point out by transferring to an alternative scheme Mr G was unlikely to match the 
benefits from his DB scheme. But it then went someway to downplay the significance of that 
by saying the relevance of critical yields was limited as Mr G didnt intend to buy an 
annuity. But, at that time, the regulator required firms like Quilter to quote critical yields to 
give consumers like Mr G an insight into what they might be giving up. So I dont think it was 
fair for Quilter to downplay the significance of this critical yield, as this clearly demonstrated 
that Mr G would almost certainly be worse off in retirement. 
Further, while saying that comparison to annuities was of limited value, Quilter then used a 
table of information which compared Mr Gs income from his DB scheme with a level annuity 
implying that Mr G could actually be better off by transferring and buying an annuity. Quilter 
believed that, owing to his health conditions, by transferring Mr G could afford an enhanced 
level annuity (which didnt increase in value) of £8,553 a year. The table it produced to 
compare those income levels showed that at age 76 Mr Gs yearly income from his DB 
scheme would still have been below the level annuity. However, that table misrepresents the 
position. It only compares the annuity against the income of £5,215 Mr G would be entitled to 
at age 56 and increasing in line with inflation each year. But Quilter didnt adjust Mr Gs 
projected DB scheme income to allow for the increase he would receive at age 60 when he 
became entitled to take the benefits from his previous pension which hed transferred into 
the DB scheme. Neither was it adjusted to reflect the increased income Mr G could expect to 
receive when his GMP became payable at 65. So the table wasnt a fair comparison of what 
Mr Gs actual income was likely to be from staying in the DB scheme.
Also, the transfer value analysis report of 27 June 2016, shows the increase Mr G could 
expect to receive at 65. And that shows he could expect to receive an annual income of 
£11,600 a year (gross). But, as far as I can see, Quilter didnt ever bring this significant 
increase in his pension  at age 65  to his attention. Its not mentioned anywhere in its 
suitability report. Its also notable that Mr G didnt refer to it when he set out his 
understanding of the benefits hed be giving up in response to Quilters advice. And, if Quilter 
had brought this to his attention its likely that Mr G would have thought much more carefully 
about whether or not he wanted to transfer out of the DB scheme. It follows that I don't think 
Quilter gave Mr G enough information with which to make an informed choice. And I doubt 
he would have been aware of how much worse off he was likely to be once he reached 65. 
For the above reasons alone I don't think that transferring out of the DB scheme was in 
Mr Gs best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice, as Quilter has argued in this case. There might be other considerations 
which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered 
these below.
Flexibility and TFC
Mr G said he wanted the flexibility to access his pension funds in a manner that suited him. 
His reason for this was principally so that he could access TFC to pay off his debts and to 
secure borrowing for a mortgage. But, as our investigator said, Mr G didnt need to access 
the funds from his DB scheme in order to pay off his debts. 
I understand that Mr G had an IVA. Im also aware that such an arrangement can be 
extremely damaging to an individuals credit score. And IVAs can make it very difficult, if not 
near impossible for their holders to secure a mortgage or other borrowing. So I can see why 
clearing his IVA and rebuilding his credit score was an important goal for Mr G. But Mr G had 
a fund of over £32,000 available to him from his personal pension. The income he could draw from that pension was dependent on investment performance and so wasnt 
guaranteed. Unlike his DB scheme which would give Mr G an index linked, guaranteed and 
risk free income that would increase each year. So the personal pension fund was less 
valuable to Mr G than his DB scheme.
In those circumstances it would have made sense for Mr G to use the funds from his 
personal pension to address his debts in the first place. Theres evidence on file, from the 
firm that was managing Mr Gs IVA, that hed made an offer of £10,000 to clear those debts 
and have the IVA removed. If that offer was accepted then Mr G could have cleared all his 
debts using the funds available from the personal pension with around £20,000 left over. 
And even if his creditors didnt accept that offer, he would still have around £15,000 left over 
after clearing the debt of £15,000 Quilter referred to. That action would have helped to repair 
his credit score which would in turn have improved the possibility of him securing a 
mortgage. Further he would have been £360 a month better off as he wouldnt be making 
the debt repayments. However, I'm aware that, even after clearing an IVA, they can still 
affect a persons credit score for around six years from when they were entered into. So its 
possible the IVA might have made it more difficult for Mr G to secure a mortgage even if he 
cleared it.
Also, its notable that at the time Mr G lost his pension funds in 2018 he still hadn't bought a 
property. So he clearly didnt have an urgent need to release funds for that purpose at the 
time Quilter gave its advice. At that time he hadn't identified a property he wanted to buy; 
didnt know how much he would need to buy it; and didn't know if he could secure a 
mortgage in order to do so. It follows that he had no urgent need for flexible access to his DB 
pension funds. He could have left those where they were and only accessed them if the 
need arose at a later date. So I think Quilter should have been clear with him that, at that 
time, he had no urgent need for those funds and it wasnt in his best interests to make the 
transfer. Thats because, once transferred, Mr G had no prospect of reversing that decision, 
and the valuable DB benefits would be lost forever. 
Quilters role was to discern what Mr Gs wants and needs were and why he wanted to 
transfer his pension at that time. Its role wasnt simply to do what he wished without 
appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so while presenting the other 
options that were available to him. And I dont think Quilter met its obligations to challenge 
his objectives or the timing of those in light of what he would be giving up. Nor did it fully 
explore what he could achieve through other means without giving up the benefits from his 
DB scheme. It follows that I don't think Mr G needed to access his DB scheme funds when 
he did and Quilter should have advised him accordingly.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr G as, if he died shortly after 
making the transfer his family could inherit whatever was left in his pension pot. I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers. And Mr G might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this. But the priority here was to 
advise Mr G about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
Its worth noting that the death benefits available from the SIPP would likely decrease over 
time. So the funds available for Mr Gs family on his death would continue to reduce as he 
drew down sums for his income needs. And that amount would likely be further reduced 
the longer he lived for. So, depending on his lifespan and the funds hed taken from the 
SIPP, the fund might not have a large  if indeed any  sum left at the time of Mr Gs death. In any event, Quilter should not have encouraged Mr G to prioritise the potential for 
a higher sum at his death through a personal pension over his security in retirement. 
I acknowledge that Mr G had a health condition and it would be understandable to have 
concerns about life expectancy. But Mr G not reaching his life expectancy was only a 
possibility and it was also possible that he would exceed this, in which case Mr G would 
need his pension to last longer. By transferring out of the DB scheme he would be relying on 
investment returns to ensure sufficient capital remained in the SIPP to provide the death 
benefits. In contrast the spouses benefit from his DB scheme was guaranteed and 
escalated. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr G. 
Transferring Mr Gs personal pension 
Mr Gs personal pension would allow him to take 25% of it as TFC, which was around 
£8,000. But the personal pension didnt allow him to simply draw down further funds without 
taking some form of annuity. So, assuming Mr G paid £8,000 TFC towards clearing his 
£15,000 IVA, in order to access the other £7,000 to pay off the rest Mr G would have needed 
to transfer the personal pension to another product. Quilters recommendation was that he 
should transfer it into the named SIPP.
I've noted that the investments Quilter suggest Mr G held in this SIPP were in line with its 
assessment of Mr Gs attitude to risk being dynamic. It said dynamic investors will generally 
have significant levels of financial knowledge and they will usually be experienced investors, 
who have used a range of investment products in the past that have contained high levels of 
equity. But, while Mr G did have some investment experience, this had been on a small 
scale. So I dont think he had anything like the level of investment experience that matched 
an assessment of a dynamic risk taker. 
However, investment experience isn't the only gauge for assessing attitude to risk. And its 
clear from the answers Mr G gave to Quilters risk questionnaire that he did have some 
appetite for risk. But some of his answers indicate that risk wasnt as high as Quilter 
assessed it. In particular his answer to two questions, in italics below, call that assessment 
into doubt, as follows:
When it comes to investing I'd rather be safe than sorry. Mr G said he agreed.
I'd rather take my chances with high risk/high return investments than have to 
increase the amount I am saving. Mr G said he disagreed. 
Those answers indicate that Mr G didnt want to risk seriously depleting his retirement fund. 
So I'm not persuaded that Quilter accurately assessed Mr Gs attitude to risk. And in any 
event I think its also important to consider Mr Gs capacity for investment loss. Mr G had no 
other savings or investments. Hed had debt problems which had led him to enter into an 
IVA. And he was already at an age where he could draw a pension. So I think his capacity 
for loss was minimal, as, if he suffered significant losses, he wouldnt have had the time 
required to allow his investments to grow to their previous level. For this reason, I think 
Mr Gs attitude to risk ought to have been assessed as medium at most. So I think that the 
investments Quilter recommended for him weren't suitable for his risk profile. 
That said, I do agree that it was likely that Mr G would have wanted to transfer funds from 
his personal pension in order to allow him to pay off his IVA. He couldnt access his funds in 
that way through the existing pension, so he wouldve needed to move his personal pension 
funds to a new flexible scheme. On balance, I dont think Mr G needed to take out a SIPP, particularly as this was likely to cost him more and I dont think he needed access to the 
wider range of specialist investments a SIPP could hold. Instead, I think his needs couldve 
been met by a low-cost stakeholder pension plan, which wouldve given him the flexibility he 
required for his personal pension funds. 
It follows that I think that, given appropriate advice, Mr G wouldve most likely transferred his 
personal pension funds to a stakeholder pension plan and invested his funds in line with his 
medium attitude to risk. So I think Quilter needs to, as far as possible, return Mr G to the 
position he would have been in but for its unsuitable advice. 
Is Quilter responsible for Mr G losing his funds in 2018?
Mr Gs said that Firm L persuaded him to take his funds out of his SIPP and to reinvest 
them. Mr G has now lost the majority of those funds. Mr G argues that if he hadn't 
transferred the DB scheme funds in the first place then they would still be held within the 
scheme and he wouldnt have lost those. But while I have enormous sympathy for the 
position Mr G finds himself in, I dont think it would be fair to hold Quilter responsible for the 
actions of Firm L, Ill explain why.
While I don't think Quilters advice to transfer the funds out of the DB scheme was suitable, 
once that had happened the decision couldnt be reversed. And from that point forward those 
funds were Mr Gs to do with as he wished. It follows that it wouldnt be Quilters fault if Mr G 
chose, without Quilters involvement, to spend that money unwisely or if he was otherwise 
led astray. And by the time Firm L approached Mr G Quilter was no longer advising him  he 
had appointed a new financial adviser to service his pension. So Quilter had no involvement 
whatsoever in the events that led directly to Mr G losing the majority of his pension funds. 
And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to find that Quilter was responsible for those 
losses.
For the purposes of calculating redress, I think it is fair to hold Quilter responsible for the 
value of Mr Ls SIPP funds up to the point immediately before Firm L persuaded him to take 
withdrawals from it. For the avoidance of doubt that is up to the point immediately prior to 
him depleting those funds in 2018. This is because Mr G had only invested in the SIPP as a 
result of Quilters advice, and so any losses his funds suffered, up to that point happened 
because of that advice. 
Summary
I can understand that Mr G would benefit from paying off his IVA. But at the time of Quilters 
advice he could have done so without accessing his DB scheme funds. He had no pressing 
need to access those at all. And I think Quilter should have made that clear to him and 
advised him accordingly. Its important to note that Quilter wasnt there to just transact what 
Mr G might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr G 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice Quilter gave to Mr G was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, he was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this at that time. Quilter shouldnt have advised Mr G to 
transfer out of the scheme to raise funds for a house deposit when he still didnt know how 
much he would need or whether or not he could secure a mortgage. 
So, I think Quilter shouldve advised Mr G to remain in his DB scheme. But I think Quilters 
advice that Mr G switch his personal pension to a flexible product was suitable for him. 
Although I dont think the SIPP it recommended was.Of course, I have to consider whether Mr G would've gone ahead anyway, and transferred 
his DB scheme against Quilter's advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded 
that Mr G wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against Quilters advice. I 
say this because I think Mr G would have understood that transferring from a DB scheme 
was an irreversible action and so not one that should be taken unless it was absolutely 
necessary. And, at the time of the advice, that wasn't the case. Also Mr G was an 
inexperienced investor with at best a medium attitude to risk and this pension accounted for 
the majority of Mr Gs retirement provision. So, if Quilter had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Quilter should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Additionally, as I think 
the unsuitable advice has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr G I think 
Quilter should pay him £300 compensation to address that.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Quilter to put Mr G, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for Quilters unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
What should Quilter do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Quilter must determine the combined fair value of his 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual 
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP. However, as Mr G has since depleted 
that fund, Quilter should take the value at the point immediately before Firm L persuaded 
Mr G to deduct funds from his SIPP in 2018 and subject to any other deductions as 
described under the heading fair value - step two below.
Fair value  step one
If Mr G had been given suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the DB scheme.
Quilter must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr G lost as a result of transferring 
out of his DB scheme in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr G whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to be published. He didnt make a 
choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for any 
new guidance. 
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr G.
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of this decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
Quilter may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Quilter to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
fair value  step two
Quilter must compare the total value of the personal pension funds it transferred to the 
SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below to determine the fair value Mr Gs personal 
pension would likely have been had it given suitable advice. 
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Mr Gs 
transferred 
personal 
pension 
fundsStill exists 
(potentially 
with a different 
provider than 
recommended 
by QuilterFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentThe point 
immediately 
before Firm 
L persuaded 
Mr G to 
deduct 
funds from 
his SIPP in 
20188% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out 
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Quilter totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Gs SIPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the SIPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken 
as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date 
Quilter receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Quilter 
to pay Mr G. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above. In that case any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr G's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above.
If Mr G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman