DRN-3049426
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (trading as Mercedes- 
Benz Finance) (MBFS) failed to waive/refund payments when his finance agreement ended.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr A took out a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with MBFS for a new car. 
The total repayable was over £43,000 and Mr A agreed to make 36 monthly payments of 
nearly £600 - with a final optional payment of £16,500, if he wanted to buy the car.
The HPA was due to end on 31st January 2021 and Mr A contacted the retailer and a 
collection agent (that Ill call B) near the end of 2020. They arranged for the car to be 
collected in the middle of December 2020. Mr A is unhappy that MBFS says two monthly 
payments remain due  - for December 2020 and January 2021. He considers he was entitled 
to terminate the HPA early and should only be charged for the time he had the car.
MBFS says it was up to Mr A to arrange a collection date with B, the HPA didnt end until 31 
January 2021 and the last two payments are properly due but offered to refund one payment 
- as a goodwill gesture. Mr A wants MBFS to refund the December payment as well, pro-
rata.
One of our investigators looked at the evidence. Hes satisfied that payments are due in 
arrears under the HPA  and that agreement was due end in January 2021. He couldnt see 
that Mr A had contacted MBFS to say he wanted to terminate the HPA early. He 
acknowledges the car was collected in December 2020 but thinks that was the result of 
communication Mr A had with the retailer and B  and its unfair to hold MBFS responsible. 
He considers the offer to refund the January payment is reasonable and he doesnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. He feels he has been treated unfairly 
and says (in summary):-
he saw no difference between contacting the retailer and MBFS  and most people 
wouldnt realise theyre not one and the same;
he told the retailer he wanted to return the car early, in writing and by telephone, and 
it was poor customer service not to re-direct him to MBFS;
the car was returned early and had covered less than the mileage allowed; and
it would be worth more to MBFS due to the lower mileage and MBFS would have 
charged him if hed gone over the mileage agreed.
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint, I was not minded to uphold 
it. Id received some additional evidence - after the investigator provided his view - and I 
thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings (and respond if they wanted 
to) before I made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 6 
August 2021 and asked for responses by 23 August 2021. A copy of what I decided 
provisionally and why is set out below and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
I can see that Mr A has strong feelings about what happened here. He brings this complaint 
to our service because MBFS supplied the car under a finance agreement. And I should 
make it clear at the outset that Im considering Mr As complaint about MBFS in this decision 
 its not within my remit to look at the after sales service he received from the retailer.
I make my decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable overall but I must 
have regard to relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and (where appropriate) good industry practice, at the relevant time.
Theres no dispute that this car was collected about six weeks before the HPA was due to 
come to an end in January 2021. Mr A says he wanted to end the agreement before that. 
And I accept he was entitled to end the agreement early - by way of whats known as 
voluntary termination - under section 99 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Section 99 provides (so far as its relevant)
(1) At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire purchase or 
regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall be entitled to terminate the 
agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or authorised to receive the sums payable 
under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability under the 
agreement which has accrued before the termination
Section 100 of the CCA goes on to set out the debtors liability on termination under section
99. This says, broadly speaking, MBFS would be entitled to return of the car and at least half 
of the total repayable under the agreement. I think this is reflected in the terms and 
conditions of the HPA which says, under a section headed termination  your rights 
You have a right to end this agreement. To do so you should write to the person you make 
your payments to. We will then be entitled to the return of the vehicle and to half the total 
amount payable under the agreement (£21,737.57). If you have already paid at least this 
amount plus any overdue instalments and taken reasonable care of the vehicle you will not 
have to pay any more
I can see that Mr A emailed the retailer near the end of October 2020 as follows:-
I would like to notify you that I would like to end my agreement and return vehicle at your 
office. My understanding is that my agreement expires on 31/01/2021 but can you please 
confirm this date to me from your records. I would be grateful to you if you would inform me 
what else I have to do.
Ive also seen some paperwork that shows Mr A was in contact with B in early December 
2020. I asked the investigator to check with MBFS how the contact with B came about. And 
MBFS told us Mr As email to the retailer in October would have prompted a message to be 
sent to B and it would then have been up to Mr A to arrange with B for the car to be collected 
before the HPA ended in January 2021.
I realise this is frustrating for Mr A but Ive seen nothing to show that he notified MBFS that 
he wanted to end the HPA early. I understand he feels telling the retailer what he wanted to 
do should have been enough but Im satisfied section 99 says notice must be provided to 
MBFS. I can see why Mr A considers the retailer and MBFS are basically one and the same 
- because theyre part of the same corporate group. But Im satisfied they are separate 
organisations. And I think Mr A was made reasonably aware in the HPA that hed need to 
contact MBFS  not the retailer  if he wanted to terminate early. Ive seen nothing to show 
that MBFS was made aware that Mr A wanted to end this HPA early. And I cant reasonably find telling the retailer was the same as giving the notice required under section 99 to MBFS, 
in this situation.
I think it was up to Mr A to decide if he wanted to return the car without having reached the 
mileage limit agreed at the outset (under the HPA). And Im not persuaded that MBFS is 
obliged to provide a refund - or do anything else - because the car was returned with less 
miles than could have been accrued without incurring additional charges.
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to 
find MBFS did something wrong here. I can see that MBFS has offered to waive one 
payment  which seems reasonable. But, from the evidence Ive got, I cant fairly require 
MBFS to provide an additional refund - or do anything else. And I intend to leave it to Mr A to 
contact MBFS if he wants to accept the refund it has offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The time set for responses to my provisional decision has now passed. The parties have not 
objected to my provisional conclusions or provided any new evidence or information. I see 
no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional decision in the circumstances. I leave it 
to Mr A to contact MBFS if he wishes to accept the refund it has offered.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman