DRN-1536618
 
The complaint
Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mrs H took out in 2000. It was added to 
her account when she applied for her card by post.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with 
the adjudicators conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities - that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs H's complaint and I've set out my reasons below: 
I think Barclaycard made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI, but she 
decided to buy it. I say this because the credit card application form Mrs H signed 
was completed to show that she wanted the PPI. Card cover was also available to 
Mrs H, but it seems she decided not to take that form of insurance. So I think Mrs H 
would've realised she had a choice about buying the PPI.  
Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs H's circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. Mrs H considers Barclaycard should've pointed out the 
policy's deferral period, and if it had done she wouldn't have taken the cover. That's 
because she didn't have any other means of covering her credit card repayments 
during the deferred period. But the deferral period was fourteen days. Even if Mrs H 
had known that, on balance I don't consider the length of time was long enough to 
change her decision about buying the policy. Overall, I think it's likely she would've 
still bought it.  So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs H 
off taking out the cover.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman