DRN-4160789
The complaint
Miss T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank was 
irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss T was provided with a Tesco Bank credit card in September 2018 with a credit limit of 
£2,800. The credit limit hasnt been increased. Miss T says that at the time the credit was 
provided she was on statutory maternity pay and was struggling financially with missed 
payments and other debt. She said she couldnt afford the payments.
Tesco Banks said that proportionate checks were carried out before the lending was 
provided. It said Miss T declared a monthly income of £1,500 and said she was living with 
parents and paying rent of £120 although it included a higher amount in its assessment. It 
carried out a credit check which showed Miss T had defaults but these were historic, and 
she had been managing her accounts well more recently. It said based on Miss Ts credit 
commitments shown in her credit report and allowing for her housing and other living costs 
the credit card with a £2,800 credit limit was affordable.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said that given the size of the credit limit 
compared to Miss Ts declared income and noting that she had six historic defaults recorded 
on her credit file, Tesco Bank should have carried out further checks to ensure the lending 
was affordable. He looked at Miss Ts banks statements for the months leading up to her 
credit card application and these showed Miss Ts income was lower than she had declared 
and her costs higher. Based on this he didnt think the credit card account with the £2,800 
credit limit should have been provided.
Tesco Bank noted our investigators comment but said it wasnt proportionate to request 
Miss Ts bank statements and that its checks were reasonable. As these showed the lending 
to be affordable it didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to assess the ability of the consumer to be able to 
make the repayments in an affordable way over the loan term. There arent specific checks 
that need to be carried out, but the regulations say these need to be reasonable and 
proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of the credit being 
provided, the frequency of its use, the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
Miss T applied for a credit card account and before this was provided, Tesco Bank carried 
gathered information from Miss T about her circumstances and carried out a credit check. 
The data gathered recorded Miss T as being single, employed full time and living with 
parents. The credit check didnt show any county court judgements or individual voluntary 
arrangements being in place and noted her accounts as being up to date. However, six 
defaults were recorded in Miss Ts credit file, with the most recent being for £21,500 and 
while these were historic given Miss T had experienced financial difficulties in the past and 
noting how many defaults were recorded, I think it would have been reasonable to carry out 
additional checks to ensure this lending was affordable for her.
Tesco Bank gathered information about Miss Ts income, and it was recorded that she 
received a net monthly income of £1,500. In this case, I think it would have been reasonable 
to verify this amount. Tesco Bank wasnt required to request copies of Miss Ts bank 
statements but as these have been provided, I have relied on the information they contain to 
establish what I think Tesco Bank would have most likely identified had it verified Miss Ts 
income. Having looked through Miss Ts banks statements for the months leading up to her 
credit card application she was receiving significantly less than was included in her 
application. Miss T has explained that she was on maternity pay which would account for a 
higher annual income being declared but further checks showing that her monthly income at 
the time was considerably lower at £597. Miss Ts bank statements show she was also 
receiving benefit payments of £336 giving her a total monthly income of around £933. 
Miss T had said she was paying £120 a month in rent. Her credit file showed she had £1,045 
outstanding on a loan and £2,733 in revolving credit. Considering the amounts due on her 
existing credit commitments (taking the information from Tesco Banks credit results and 
Miss Ts bank statements) and including the fees she was paying on her bank account, 
including overdraft fees, Miss T was making monthly payments of around £350 for her credit 
commitments. Miss T was also paying £50 a month for a personal loan with a family 
member. Miss Ts bank statements do not show that she was paying for utilities and I note 
she had stated she was living with parents. She was paying for media /communications and 
for transport and other general living expenses. I do not think the £450 Tesco Bank 
estimated for Miss Ts general living costs was unreasonable. Taking this all into account 
would not leave Miss T with sufficient disposable income to cover the cost of the estimated 
repayments on a credit card with a £2,800 credit limit. Because of this I do not find that 
Tesco Bank should have provided this account to Miss T.
Putting things right
As I dont think Tesco Bank ought to have opened the account, it isnt fair for it to be able to 
charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But Miss T should pay back the 
amounts she has borrowed. Therefore, Tesco Bank should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss T along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Tesco Bank should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Miss Ts credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco Bank should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss T for the remaining amount. Once 
Miss T has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account 
should be removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. 
If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank to 
take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman