DRN-3072531
Complaint
Miss W has complained about a guarantor loan UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) provided to 
her. She says that this loan was unaffordable but she was desperate for cash and no bank 
would lend to her.
Background
UK Credit provided Miss W with a guarantor loan of £6,000.00 in November 2018. This loan 
had an APR of 47.9% and a 60-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of 
£13,897.80 was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £230. As I understand 
it, an outstanding balance remained at the time of Miss Ws complaint.
Miss Ws complaint was reviewed by of our investigators. She thought that proportionate 
checks wouldnt have shown UK Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss W. 
So she didnt recommend Miss Ws complaint be upheld. Miss W disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at this complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Ws complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Ws complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Miss W would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss W wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Miss W would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
UK Credit provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required UK Credit to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Ws ability to make the repayments under 
this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so UK Credit had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss W. In practice this
meant that UK Credit had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Miss W undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss W. 
The existence of a guarantee and the potential for UK Credit to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Miss W, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.Were UK Credits checks reasonable and proportionate?
UK Credit says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss W prior 
to providing her with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Miss W confirmed that she 
was earning around £2,00.00 a month. She confirmed that her rent was £360 a month. 
The credit check UK Credit carried out showed that Miss W had had previous difficulties 
repaying credit. There was mortgage default and a secured loan default as well as a County 
Court Judgement on a personal loan. Miss W also had outstanding balances on existing 
credit. UK Credit says the proceeds of this loan were going to be used to clear some of    
Miss Ws existing debts and the remainder was used to buy a car. 
It also says Miss W had more than enough left over to make the required monthly loan 
payments, when her living costs and the monthly payments needed to meet the credit 
commitments shown on the credit search, which werent being consolidated by this loan, 
were deducted from Miss Ws monthly income. 
 
Ive carefully thought about what UK Credit has said. But simply requesting information from 
a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower focused 
assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
The credit check UK Credit carried out indicated that Miss W had had significant difficulties 
repaying credit in the past. UK Credit says it was aware of this and its underwriter asked 
Miss W about the default on the mortgage on the secured loan. Miss W confirmed that the 
property had been repossessed and this had settled the mortgage. And while there were 
outstanding balances on the other defaulted commitments, she had arrangements in place 
for them and this was supported by the information on the credit check. UK Credit also says 
that it took steps to verify Miss Ws income by asking for payslips. 
I agree that it was sensible to verify Miss Ws income in light of her previous difficulties. But 
bearing in mind the regulatory rules place an obligation to carry out a borrower focused 
check and Miss Ws previous difficulties were apparent, I would have expected UK Credit to 
have taken additional steps to verify Miss Ws other non-credit related expenditure. So, in 
this case, bearing in mind everything, I think that UK Credit needed to take steps to verify 
Miss Ws expenditure instead of relying on a declaration of it. It could have done this by 
obtaining copies of bank statements, utility bills, or anything else that would have highlighted 
what Miss Ws expenditure was.  
As I cant see that UK Credit did do this, I dont think that the checks carried out before    
Miss W were provided with this loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to UK Credit that Miss W would 
have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I now need to decide whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate check would have 
told UK Credit that Miss W wouldve been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Miss W has provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances from around the time 
she applied for this loan. Shes provided us with copies of bank statements for some of the 
period leading up to this application. Of course, I accept different checks might show 
different things. And just because something shows up in the information Miss W has now 
provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any checks UK Credit mightve carried out.But in the absence of anything else from UK Credit showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Miss Ws financial circumstances were more likely than 
not to have been at the time.
To be clear, Ive not looked at Miss Ws bank statements because I think that UK Credit 
ought to have obtained them before lending to her. Ive consulted Miss Ws bank statements 
because they were readily available at this stage and they contain the information I now 
need to take the steps, which I think that UK Credit ought reasonably to have taken, to verify 
the expenditure information Miss W provided.
Ive carefully considered the information Miss W has provided in light of all of this.
The first thing for me to say is that Miss W was unhappy that our investigator included what 
she has described as overtime payments as part of her income. But Miss W was asked 
about this additional income during the application. She said that this was from a second job 
and she was able to supply payslips to evidence this. In these circumstances, I cant see 
how UK Credit could possibly have known these were overtime payments given Miss W 
didnt declare this and the statements didnt suggest this was the case either. Furthermore, 
looking at Miss Ws bank statements in the months leading up to the loan application I can 
see that she was receiving this income each month. So while I realise Miss W feels its unfair 
for UK Credit to have taken this additional income into account as she was able to evidence 
receiving it and even more checks would have simply confirmed its receipt, Im satisfied that 
UK Credit was entitled to rely on an income of around £2,000.00 when deciding whether to 
lend.
Ive also looked through Miss Ws statements to get an idea of her expenditure. And there is 
anything on her statements to suggest that the figures arrived at were inaccurate, or more 
crucially that there was anything else to indicate the loan payments would be unaffordable. 
So Im satisfied that a look at Miss Ws bank statements would have addressed the 
questions I think UK Credits initial checks left unanswered  namely was Miss Ws regular 
expenditure broadly in line with what she declared? And bearing in mind this was a first loan 
Miss W was taking out and everything else suggested the loan was affordable, I dont think 
that UK Credits decision to lend would have changed even if it had obtained further 
information. 
I accept that Miss Ws ability to repay this loan was dependant on her continuing to work 
overtime. And I know that she was unable to do so after taking the loan. Equally I accept that 
UK Credit might have reached a different decision if it had been aware of these matters. But 
the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and 
Miss W provided evidence to support what she told UK Credit about her income and further 
checks wont have led it to discover Miss W was relying on overtime, I dont think that it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to conclude it did anything wrong in relation to this 
issue. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would not 
have prevented UK Credit from providing Miss W with this guarantor loan. 
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss W in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude UK Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss W in some 
other way.  So overall and having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss W  especially as shes referred to other 
complaints against different lenders being upheld. But I hope shell understand the reasons 
for my decision given the particular circumstances here and that shell at least feel her 
concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint, Id like to remind UK Credit of its ongoing 
obligation to exercise forbearance in light of Miss Ws apparent difficulty repaying this loan, 
should it choose to collect payments from her and it be the case shes experiencing financial 
difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman