DRN-1965612
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2002 in connection with a further advance on a mortgage. Ms P says Nationwide 
Building Society mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
Ms P took out a PPI policy during a meeting at around the same time she applied for a 
further advance of £10,000 for home improvements to be added to her mortgage account. 
The original mortgage had been taken out in 1999. 
She paid a monthly amount for the PPI policy which offered unemployment cover for up to 
12 months on a successful claim if she was made redundant. She said she didnt need it 
because she had savings, full sick pay, life insurance and private health care. She says she 
would have declined it if shed been told it was optional and if the cost and benefits had been 
made clearer. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Ms P disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Nationwide should have made Ms P aware she had a choice in buying the policy. She says 
no one told her it was optional at any point.  
Neither Nationwide nor Ms P have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think thats 
surprising given that the sale took place around 18 years ago. But it does mean I have 
limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Nationwide sold policies like this at the time I think its 
likely the optional nature would have been made clear. And Ms P hasnt told me anything 
that makes me think Nationwide didnt follow its normal process here. 
I also noted her PPI policy started when she took out the further advance in 2002  this was 
three years after she took out her original mortgage. So overall, I think its more likely 
Nationwide made it clear she had a choice about the PPI, and I think she first chose to buy it 
in 2002. 
Nationwide said the sale was non-advised. For non-advised sales, the PPI information had 
to be clear, fair and not misleading for Ms P to make an informed decision. So it was up to 
her to decide if the policy was right for her financial needs. So I looked at her financial 
circumstances at the time to see if she would get any benefit from the policy.
I noted she said she had enough full sick pay and other insurances to cover her. But the 
policy only covered her for unemployment, so her sick pay and other insurances were still 
available for other life events which the PPI was not designed to cover. So I think the 
unemployment cover was still a benefit for her.
I also noted the unemployment cover could have paid the mortgage repayments alone for a 
maximum of 12 months on a successful claim  leaving her savings to cover all her other 
living expenses. So I think the PPI was of value to Ms P  especially as she had increased 
her borrowing against a large and long-term financial commitment, which was secured on 
her home. So I think having the security that the mortgage repayments would be made if she 
was made redundant would have been important to her.
I dont know what information she received about the PPI, but she wasnt affected by the 
things the policy didnt cover, so I dont think any more detailed information would have put 
her off from buying the policy.
I dont know what information she was given about the cost and benefits of the policy but, 
having decided she chose to have PPI, I think she wanted this type of cover. I also think she 
probably took into account her other financial provisions when she chose unemployment 
cover. So I dont think any more detailed information about the cost and benefits would have 
put her off from buying the policy.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Ms P. Its always difficult to decide a 
complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what she said and 
about what I know of Nationwides sales processes. And I dont think  on balance  I can 
fairly and reasonably uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman