DRN-2787704
The complaint
This complaint is about a product switch Mr and Mrs B undertook on their existing mortgage 
in mid-2020 on the advice and recommendation of a broker firm that was a representative of 
First Complete Ltd (FCL).
Mr and Mrs B say they were misled into thinking theyd been provided with two back-to-
back two-year fixed rate products to cover the four-year mortgage term. In reality, theyve 
been provided with a single two-year fixed rate product, leaving them potentially exposed to 
higher rates in two years time.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision last month, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I 
intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think 
it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The deal FCL recommended split the mortgage into two main segments: the first was for a 
little under £38,000, on a variable rate, repayable over seven years, the second was for 
£80,000, on a fixed rate, repayable over four years. The complaint is confined to the £80,000 
segment.
Mr and Mrs B had initially been interested in a five-year rate product, but this was 
inconsistent with their desire to repay the balance in four years. As there were no four-year 
deals available, FCL arranged a two-year fixed rate, which would allow for another two-year 
rate to follow it. 
The crux of the dispute is that Mr and Mrs B believed the second two-year fixed rate was 
being put in place at the same time. To use their phrase, they though two products were 
stacked; the first to run from 2020 to 2022, and the second to run from 2022 to the 
mortgage term end in 2024. They complained once they realised theyll need to arrange a 
follow-up two-year deal in 2022. 
For the most part, our investigator didnt think FCL had done anything wrong; but he felt it 
had missed an opportunity to clarify things before the product switch completed. He 
recommended FCL pay £150 compensation for this. Both parties have asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion from the investigator; I set out my 
provisional findings below so that both parties can comment before I finalise my decision.
Mr and Mrs B argue that FCLs advisor never made clear to them that there was a difference 
between the mortgage term and the mortgage product. I cant know what passed between 
them in any oral discussions they might have had, but Ive seen the emails that passed 
between Mrs B and the advisor; I agree that distinction isnt made anywhere in the email 
exchanges. Equally, however, theres nothing in the email exchanges that would cause me 
to think the distinction needed to be made, and that failing to do so was an omission on 
FCLs part.
In any event, the mortgage illustration (and subsequent offer) did make a clear distinction 
between the duration of the mortgage and the duration of the product. Both the illustration 
and offer were set out in a format consistent with the requirements of the regulator of 
mortgage business, and by allowing the product switch to go ahead, Mr and Mrs B agreed to 
be bound by the terms of the offer. 
I dont know, and wont speculate on, how much of the detail in the mortgage offer Mr and 
Mrs B assimilated, but if they had any concerns that the offer didnt match their expectations, 
it was incumbent on them to check with FCLs advisor before they went ahead and became 
bound by the lenders terms and conditions.
The other observation Id make here is that in arguing that theyve been prejudiced by having 
to arrange another deal in two years time, Mr and Mrs B are rather premature with their 
complaint. Theyre assuming rates will rise in that time, and of course that is possible. But its 
also possible theyll fall, in which case Mr and Mrs B will benefit. We dont award 
compensation for losses that havent happened and possibly might never happen.
Where I differ from our investigator is about whether FCL should have realised there was 
some uncertainty, and missed an opportunity to put it right. In my view, this point turns on 
the email exchange that took place after the offer had been issued on 17 June 2020. Mrs B 
replied by email the same day, saying I have also attached the signed 4 year offer. but 
received no reply. 
Mr and Mrs B think that was an omission on FCLs part, and our investigator agreed. Having 
given very careful though to the point, Im afraid I do not. I said earlier that I wasnt 
persuaded FCL would have any reason to think that Mr and Mrs B were confused about the 
difference between the duration of the mortgage and the duration of the product. 
With that as my starting point, the phrasing of Mrs Bs email of 17 June 2020 doesnt give 
me a reason to think FCL needed to reply to it. In my view, it would have been quite 
reasonable for FCLs advisor, on reading Mrs Bs email, to infer that she was referring to the 
duration of the mortgage. 
Im not persuaded that FCL is responsible for any lack of understanding on Mr and Mrs Bs 
part about the duration of the mortgage being different from the duration of the rate product. 
It follows from this that I cant find that it missed an opportunity to remedy the matter, or that 
an award of compensation for failing to do so is warranted.
I gave the parties two weeks to respond to my provisional decision. Both have done so 
sooner than that. FCL confirmed it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs B didnt accept my 
provisional decision and made further submissions (one from each of them). Both consisted largely of a restatement of the arguments theyd already made previously. But Mrs B raised 
concerns about us publishing the final decision, and Mr B expressed his dissatisfaction with 
the service standards and communication from FCL.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin with Mrs Bs observations about us publishing the decision on their complaint. Ill 
explain first of all that were required to do so by law. But we take peoples privacy very 
seriously and take steps to ensure that they can't be identified  for example, by using an 
initial instead of their name (removing any courtesy titles  for example, Dr  where 
applicable) and not giving any details about what they do for a living or who they work for. 
Wherever possible, we also describe circumstances and events in general terms, unless 
specificity is essential to the outcome. 
The manner in which we store and then display decisions on our website, as well as the 
anonymisation we use, mean it would be very difficult for someone to stumble across any 
particular case and be able to identify the consumer from it. Its likely therell be multiple 
decisions against the business in question, and more than one consumer with the same 
initial.
As to the case itself, Ive read what Mr and Mrs B have said in their responses to my 
provisional decision. For the most part, they consist of repetitions of arguments already 
made. They contain nothing materially new that I hadnt already considered, and therefore 
give me no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. 
Regardless of what may or may not have gone before, the mortgage offer document clearly 
distinguished in writing the difference between the mortgage duration (four years) and the 
product duration (two years). Mr and Mrs B were in possession of full and correct information 
in written form before being committed to the deal FCL had recommended. But I will pick up 
on a few points in the responses to my provisional decision.
Mr B talks about FCL not replying to their emails or answering phone calls. I cant comment 
on the latter, but the file of evidence we have includes a large body of email exchanges 
between FCL and Mrs B, almost entirely provided by Mrs B.
Mrs B says that seeking compensation for potential future losses (she used the word 
damages; I did not) not yet incurred was never the crux of their complaint. It seems to me 
that it was very much the crux of the complaint when it started. Heres what they said in an 
email to our service on 3 September 2020.
In addition to the points you mentioned, we will be left out of pocket for the costs of 
arranging a new mortgage in two years and the higher interest rates that are likely to be in 
place at that time.
While it is difficult to price the amount we will be out of pocket at this time, we do wish to be 
made whole (as the mortgage we understood we were agreeing to would have ended with 
full repayment).
I make one other observation. Mrs B says they feel that theyre not being protected as 
consumers. The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a consumer protection body; its an 
alternative dispute resolution body. We provide an informal alternative to the courts and were entirely independent from, and impartial between, consumers and financial 
businesses.  
Mr and Mrs B dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
FCL will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mr and Mrs Bs right to take legal action against FCL over the subject matter 
of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman