DRN-2952999
The complaint and what happened
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) gave them incorrect information 
about a Home Plan policy value when calling it in November 2020. They were also advised 
to keep the policy going. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mrs S wanted to know whether they were better off keeping their respective policies 
or should think about cashing them in as there was only a short time left until the 
policies matured. 
She was told that advice couldnt be provided, and she would need to speak with an 
independent financial adviser. 
Mrs S also wanted a prior value and asked for the value a year before  she was told 
£10,393.65, which was incorrect, as that was the value for November 2020. The 
actual value had been £11,502.55. 
Mrs S complained that she had been advised to keep the policy going and had been 
provided with incorrect information. She was also unhappy with the complaints 
process. 
Bank of Scotland accepted she had been given wrong information and offered £75 
compensation. But it didnt agree it had provided financial advice. And it provided a 
copy of the complaints made as requested. 
Our investigator was satisfied Bank of Scotland had already fairly resolved the 
complaint. Mrs S asked for the matter to be reviewed as the plan lost a lot of money 
in a year (a lot more than the £75 compensation) and they wouldnt have known this 
had she not checked the information.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure both parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
I have listened to the call that took place and am satisfied the staff member made it 
clear that they could not provide financial advice. Mrs S was told whether or not they 
should cash in their policies was a matter for an independent financial adviser. 
Although Mrs S was unhappy she would have to pay for such advice, Im satisfied 
she didnt receive financial advice in the call nor was she told to keep the policies 
going. 
There is no dispute that Mrs S was provided with incorrect information about the 
policy value for November 2019. The compensation offered is to reflect the 
inconvenience that incorrect information had  not to cover the drop in the value of 
the policy over the course of a year; that was due to investment conditions.
I havent been provided with any evidence Mr and Mrs S relied on the incorrect 
information to their detriment  indeed given it was a past valuation its hard to see 
how that could happen, particularly when information had been sent over a number 
of years pointing out the high risk of a shortfall on maturity. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied £75 compensation is reflective of the impact the 
incorrect information had and the inconvenience caused. 
Finally, I note Mrs S in unhappy with the banks complaint processes. But that isnt 
something for us to get involved in, how a bank designs its processes is up to it and 
the regulator.   
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S arent happy. However, Im not persuaded the bank needs to do 
anything more than it already has in order to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc has already fairly 
resolved this complaint. I require it to pay Mr and Mrs S £75 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman