DRN-2714356
The complaint
Mr D complains that his mortgage lender, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham 
Midshires, wouldnt offer him a further interest rate product when his existing fixed rate 
expired. Mr D says the only way he could get a new product was by applying through a 
mortgage broker. He says this is unfair as this would involve him paying fees, and he 
believes this is against mortgage regulation. 
Mr D says he would like to have access to Birmingham Midshires more competitive 
mortgage products direct from his lender to resolve his complaint.
What happened
In 2017 Mr D took out a buy-to-let mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. Mr D took out the 
mortgage having met with a mortgage adviser. Mr D borrowed around £97,000 to be repaid 
over 25 years.
The mortgage was on a fixed rate of 2.39% until 31 December 2019. After that time the 
mortgage would revert to a variable rate of 4.34% above Bank of England base rate for the 
remaining term of the loan. 
Mr D complains that the interest rate that applies to his mortgage has increased significantly. 
He says he cant change to another lender or get a new product from Birmingham Midshires, 
and so hes now being forced to pay more interest than is acceptable or affordable to him. 
On 28 November 2019 Birmingham Midshires gave its final response to Mr Ds complaint. It 
didnt uphold the complaint, saying that it didnt agree that having to contact and pay for a 
mortgage broker to change his interest rate was an unreasonable post sale barrier. It 
explained that Birmingham Midshires no longer completes new business direct with its 
customers. Instead, to apply for a new interest rate, customers must apply via a broker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the mortgage offer accepted by Mr D in 2017. The offer explains the 
terms of mortgage, including the two year fixed interest rate of 2.39% which would expire on 
31 December 2019. The offer also sets out that the mortgage interest rate would then revert 
to a variable rate of 4.34% above Bank of England base rate. 
The mortgage documentation doesnt say how Mr D would be able to access a new interest 
rate in the future, or indeed whether a subsequent interest rate product would be available. I 
havent found any evidence that shows Birmingham Midshires told Mr D that either a new 
interest rate would be available once his fixed rate expired, or how he might apply.
Mr Ds mortgage was sold to him by a third party outside of this complaint. Its unclear what 
was explained to Mr D by the broker who recommended this mortgage to him in 2017. But 
Birmingham Midshires has said that the broker would have known at the time of the sale that 
new interest rate products were only available through an intermediary, and that this had 
been the case for several years prior to Mr D taking out the mortgage. 
Notwithstanding this, I can see why Mr D has queried why its necessary for him to have to 
go through a broker to take out a new interest rate product on this buy-to-let mortgage. I 
appreciate that it would be easier and cheaper for him if he could simply switch to a new 
product online, or through another channel. And its clear he feels this would be better 
customer service. He also considers Birmingham Midshires is acting in breach of mortgage 
regulation. Specifically, Mr D has referred to outcome 6 of the FCAs consumer outcomes. 
Mr D says that he believes the need to go through a broker creates an unreasonable post-
sale barrier to him applying for a new interest product. 
Id like to reassure Mr D that Ive taken mortgage regulation into account in considering this 
complaint, as well as relevant legislation and what I consider to be good industry practice. I 
also note that this is an unregulated buy-to-let mortgage and as such isnt regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. The mortgage offer makes that clear in section 1. While 
mortgage regulation isnt directly relevant, I have thought about the principles of the 
regulation when considering Birmingham Midshires conduct and the merits of this complaint. 
Ultimately, my role is to determine what I think is fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint having taken all of these factors into account. 
Birmingham Midshires has explained that it made a policy decision some years before Mr D 
took out this mortgage, to discontinue selling directly to customers. It requires that all 
customers approach it via an independent financial advisor  whether these are new 
applications or whether they are existing customers requesting a new interest rate product. 
Its said this is fair as it is treating all customers in the same way. I dont think it constitutes 
an unfair barrier for Birmingham Midshires to ask that customers use this channel to make 
an application for a new product. 
However, Ive also carefully considered whether Birmingham Midshires has unfairly withheld 
a new interest rate. Mr Ds complained that hes unfairly trapped by his lender on the SVR. 
Our investigation has found that Birmingham Midshires hasnt refused a new interest rate to 
Mr D. Rather, Mr D has chosen not to apply for a rate as he doesnt consider it good value 
for money to pay the broker fee. Im aware from my wider knowledge of the mortgage market 
that not all brokers charge customers a fee and some are commission based. But it seems 
the broker Mr D has spoken with charges a fee. Overall, it seems to me, that Mr D has 
chosen for his mortgage to remain on Birmingham Midshires SVR even though this may 
have led to a higher interest cost on his mortgage.
Mr Ds said he cant remortgage to another lender because Birmingham Midshires has 
declined an application from him. And that this means he cant get a new mortgage 
elsewhere. Im grateful to Mr D for clarifying that this application was for a second mortgage 
on a different property, and it isnt linked to an attempt to take out a new product on this 
mortgage. Mr D says hes been told by a third party that an application to another lender 
wont be approved. I can see why Mr D was disappointed to have another application 
declined and disappointed to hear this may limit his options to move this mortgage 
elsewhere. But I dont consider this is a situation that has come about through a mistake or 
any wrongdoing by Birmingham Midshires. And I dont think Birmingham Midshires can 
reasonably be held responsible for another lender not wanting to make Mr D a new 
mortgage offer.
In conclusion, I see why Mr D has queried whether its fair that he needs to pay a broker fee 
to get a new interest rate. However, I dont think its unreasonable that Birmingham 
Midshires requires all applications (whether for new lending or interest rate products) to be made to it via a broker. And, Im also not persuaded that Birmingham Midshires has unfairly 
withheld a new interest rate from Mr D. Instead, it seems that new interest rate deals have 
been available, but Mr Ds chosen not to pay a broker fee and so hasnt applied to get a new 
interest rate product for his mortgage.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022. 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman