DRN-2740056
The complaint
Mr F complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) delayed settling the claim and didnt 
provide a courtesy car. He is also unhappy with the communication and lack of updates he 
received from AXA.
Mr F has also complained that AXA failed to provide advice about how to cancel the road 
tax. Although this happened after he complained, AXA have provided their consent for us to 
look into it.
At times, the named driver contacted AXA on Mr Fs behalf. But Ive just referred to Mr F in
my decision as its his complaint. Reference to AXA also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr F had a motor insurance policy with AXA. Unfortunately, he was involved in an accident 
on 23 November 2019 which led to a claim. It was recorded as a fault claim following a 
telephone conversation on 25 November. Shortly afterwards, AXA were told that the vehicle 
was likely to be a total loss. But after this there was confusion about what exactly had 
happened to Mr Fs car.
Mr F called AXA for updates in December 2019 and January 2020. In January, he
complained because he was unhappy with the time his claim was taking and the lack of
updates. Mr F has told us that he later received a letter from the Driver and Vehicle
Licensing Agency (DVLA) confirming that someone else was trying to register the car.
AXA acknowledged Mr Fs complaint and sent him a holding letter in March 2020. They
apologised for ongoing delays and said a member of the team would respond by May 2020.
AXA also signposted Mr F to our service.
Therefore, Mr F contacted us to investigate. AXA corresponded with the investigator and
sent Mr F a cheque for £150. They told our investigator this was to acknowledge the lack of
communication. In April 2020, Mr F came to a settlement agreement with AXA for £5,500.
This was on the basis his car was dealt with as a total loss.
Our investigator reviewed the matter and upheld the complaint. They felt AXA should pay
£10 a day for the loss of use and £250 for the trouble and upset caused. Mr F accepted this,
but AXA didnt. AXA offered £525 to resolve the complaint but this wasnt accepted.
Therefore, the case passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision because I came to a different conclusion in respect of how 
things should be put right. I said: 
Delay
Ive seen internal correspondence from the end of November 2019. I note AXA 
understood the car was likely to be a total loss. The evidence Ive been provided 
doesnt show this was explained to Mr F at the time.
Therefore, Mr F called for an update in December 2019. The notes from this call 
show that there was confusion about what had happened to the car. After 
investigating, AXA understood the garage had disposed of the vehicle.
Mr F called on 2 January 2020 and requested an update. The notes show that it 
wasnt clear what had been decided and it was escalated to a senior engineer. Mr F 
called again on 6, 7 and 8 January 2020. There remained some confusion at this 
time and AXA said they would be in contact within the next couple of days. This is 
when Mr F raised a complaint.
However, I cant see progress was made and it wasnt until March 2020 that AXA 
made the decision to deal with the claim as a total loss. It seems this decision 
shouldve been made sooner and its not clear why it wasnt. This meant it wasnt 
until April that the settlement was agreed. The payment was received in May 2020 
and shortly afterwards Mr F purchased a new vehicle.
Having reviewed the file, Im of the view AXA unreasonably delayed settling the 
claim. They couldnt locate the car and they had established as early as November 
2019 that it was likely to be a total loss. Therefore, the settlement shouldve been 
agreed much sooner. And if it had been Mr F wouldnt have incurred the 
inconvenience of not having his own car or the expense of using public transport. I 
think compensation is due for loss of use.
Mr F also says he is unhappy with the delay because it meant he paid for an annual
insurance policy and couldnt make use of it whilst he didnt have a car. However, Mr 
Fs insurance policy was a yearly contract and no premium wouldve been refundable 
following the fault claim even though it was only part way through the policy term. Ive 
seen this was outlined in the policy booklet.
Mr F has also told us AXA allowed him to add the new vehicle to his policy so he 
could use the remainder of the term. For these reasons, it wouldnt be appropriate to 
ask AXA to partially refund the premium. But Mr F is understandably frustrated that 
he hasnt been able to use as much of the policy as he would have done had the 
claim been progressed reasonably.
Communication
AXA have accepted they couldve been better at communicating with Mr F about his 
claim. In the above section I explained that AXAs internal notes showed Mr F 
contacted them for updates on several occasions particularly in December 2019 and 
January 2020. There were also occasions in January when AXA failed to provide a 
call back or escalate the issue to a manager as had been requested.
Additionally, I can see that Mr F asked about advice on how to cancel the road tax. 
AXA said they would get someone who was able to advise to respond but have 
accepted this query wasnt responded to.
Whilst the case was being investigated by our service, AXA also sent Mr F a cheque 
for £150 and this was for the poor communication. But Mr F has told us no 
explanation was provided and this caused him to worry because he was still waiting to agree a settlement for his car. I appreciate that this was sent to Mr F to resolve the 
matter, but I can also understand why it caused confusion. Nevertheless, I can see 
Mr F was able to call our investigator who explained what the cheque was for.
Having reviewed the file, Im of the view that AXA should have communicated more
effectively with Mr F about his claim. I can see Mr Fs frustrations about the delay 
were exacerbated by the lack of communication and the time he spent chasing.
Courtesy Car
Ive seen the policy information and can see that AXA said that if they settled the 
claim as a total loss then they would take ownership of the car. The policy terms say 
that a courtesy car would be provided whilst the car was undergoing repair unless the 
car was identified as being beyond economical repair.
I can see there was discussion in November 2019 about the car being a total loss.
Therefore, Im persuaded it was likely that the claim wouldve gone down this route 
and a courtesy car wouldnt have been available to Mr F. However, as outlined above 
the actual decision to deal with it as a total loss and the settlement payment was 
unfairly delayed and poorly communicated. 
Putting things right 
AXA didnt pay Mr F the settlement within a reasonable period and they didnt 
communicate reasonably with Mr F about his claim. Mr F says he couldnt afford to 
buy a replacement and so he didnt have a car to use. He has told us he previously 
used it to attend college four days a week. Also, that he provided lifts to a family 
member and used it to maintain his social life.
I havent seen evidence of the exact expenses involved, and I understand this isnt 
available. However, Mr F used buses and got lifts with friends. He has told us he 
contributed to the petrol. Although I appreciate this wouldve been inconvenient and 
Mr F wouldnt have had the same freedom, Im content he took reasonable steps to 
mitigate the impact of not having a vehicle and was able to arrange alternative 
transport. I would also mention that during March 2020 his travel needs wouldve 
lessened as a result of the public health crisis. With all this in mind, Im not 
persuaded that £10 a day for the loss of use is proportionate in these circumstances.
I also appreciate that Mr F paid road tax for the car. I understand this was a relatively 
low amount. Moreover, had Mr F received the settlement sooner he would have used 
this to purchase another vehicle and is likely to have needed to pay road tax in any 
event.
Having carefully considered the points raised, Im of the view that AXA should pay Mr 
F a total of £775 compensation (inclusive of the £150 previously offered by AXA). I 
appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr F following the investigators findings. Mr 
F wasnt able to purchase a new vehicle earlier or utilise more of his annual 
insurance. Ive considered too the inconvenience of not having his own car whilst he 
was waiting for the claim to be settled and the overall poor communication by AXA.
Although compensation isnt an exact science, Im satisfied that £250 appropriately
recognises the trouble and upset caused by the delay and communication.In respect of the loss of use, AXA have offered £525 and Im of the view this is an
appropriate amount. I would note that AXA referred to their policy terms and made 
the offer on this basis. This isnt how I would approach a loss of use payment in 
these circumstances, rather I would take account of all the factors including those 
mentioned above and consider how Mr F was impacted financially. But having done 
so, Im of the view that the sum theyve offered reasonably recognises the period for 
which Mr F was without a car.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond before issuing my final decision on the matter. 
Both AXA and Mr F have confirmed they accept the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my 
provisional decision. Therefore, Ive concluded that AXA delayed paying the settlement to Mr 
F and didnt communicate reasonably. 
 
Putting things right
I explained how I felt AXA should put things right in my provisional decision and Im satisfied 
£775 appropriately addresses the impact caused by AXA. As outlined, this is inclusive of the 
£150 already offered and Mr F has confirmed the cheque sent by AXA was cashed. 
 
My final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mr F a total of £775 to resolve the complaint. As theyve 
already paid £150 to Mr F, they should make a further payment of £625. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman