DRN-1476480
The complaint
Mr L complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited wrongly declined his claim 
under his commercial vehicle insurance policy and cancelled his policy.
What happened
Mr L said that a car hit his van in the rear and damaged it. He reported this to Advantage 
and made a claim under his policy. But Advantage decided that he had fraudulently 
exaggerated the amount of damage his van had sustained in the accident. So they refused 
to pay his claim. They also cancelled his policy and required him to pay his outstanding 
premium balance.
Mr L was upset. He felt that Advantage was branding him a liar He said that the accident had 
happened through no fault of his own. And hed only claimed for damage that wasnt there 
before the accident. This included the roof damage.
He was unhappy because his claim included not only his vans repair costs, but personal 
injury claims from him and his passenger. He also wanted Advantage to pay his claims and 
compensate him for any increased cost of new insurance because of the policy cancellation.
 
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He thought that Advantage 
hadnt acted unreasonably on the evidence they had. Mr L didnt agree and so I have been 
asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We don't assess how damage to a car has been caused as this is a matter for the experts in 
these situations, the insurers and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine if 
the insurer has considered all the available evidence and can justify their decision. 
After Mr L reported the accident, Advantage had an accident management company inspect 
his van and report on the damage. They told Advantage that although some of the damage 
Mr L claimed was consistent with the circumstances of the accident, but the damage to the 
vans roof was not consistent with it. So Advantage instructed an independent engineer 
expert to inspect Mr Ls car.  The expert reported that the damage consistent with the 
accident was damage to the left side rear door and bumper. But they didnt think that the 
other damage, to the vans door alignment roof and side panels, was consistent with the 
accident. Advantage also looked at photographs of the damage to third partys car, and an 
independent engineers report on that car and its damage. They got these from the third-
partys insurer. This was to consider if the damage between the two cars was consistent, 
and consistent with the circumstances of the accident.
They said that Mr Ls van was more than twice as heavy as the third-party car and had 
damage estimated at over £3,000. But the third partys car had only light cosmetic damage 
to its front and number plate, which suggested that the accident had been only a light 
impact, and its estimated repair cost was about £400. So they thought there couldnt have 
been enough impact to damage Mr Ls van as he claimed. They thought that the van had 
been involved in a previous incident which had caused part of the damage, including the roof 
damage. So Advantage declined the claim and cancelled his policy. 
They relied on their policy term on page 22 section 9, about fraud. Ive looked at this and see 
that it does entitle them to do the above things, if Mr L were to make a claim under the 
policy knowing the claim to be false or fraudulently exaggerated in any respect
Where fraud is alleged, we expect an insurer to show that is more likely than not that the 
claim was fraudulently exaggerated.  Advantage had an independent expert report which 
said that some of Mr Ls vans damage wasnt consistent with the accident, and theyre 
entitled to rely on that professional expertise. I see that Mr L was upset about Advantages 
actions and felt that it had stained his reputation. But Im satisfied that Advantage did 
investigate adequately and within a reasonable time before deciding that he had 
exaggerated the damage claim. On the evidence they had, it wasnt unreasonable for them 
to conclude that. They therefore acted reasonably in line with the terms of the policy and I 
dont ask them to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 
23 December 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
