DRN-2695959
The complaint
Mr M, Ms T, Mr T, Mrs L, Mr P, Mr S, Mrs W, Mrs W (the beneficiaries) on behalf of the 
Estate of Mr T have complained about Lloyds Bank PLCs (Lloyds) management of the 
Estate. Any references to Lloyds also include agents working on its behalf.
What happened
The late Mr T appointed Lloyds as the executor of his Estate in his will. In September 2018, 
Lloyds had applied for the Grant of Probate and instructed an Estate Agent to market the 
property. The property had a few viewings, and the Estate Agent suggested to Lloyds (who 
passed it on to the beneficiaries) that the asking price should be reduced. As the property 
had only been on the market for a short while, the beneficiaries felt it was too early to take 
such a decision.
In November 2018, an offer was made for £410,000. This was declined by the beneficiaries, 
and they agreed the asking price should remain unchanged. However, as the property hadnt 
attracted much more interest by January 2019, the beneficiaries agreed to reduce the asking 
price. The following month, Lloyds received a cash offer of £450,000. Lloyds put this offer to 
the beneficiaries, but wrongly said the offer received was £475,000. 
In March 2019, Lloyds acknowledged its error in quoting the offer at £475,000. It was also 
advised by the Estate Agent that the potential buyer had made a planning application to 
extend the property, and the offer was dependent on this application being successful. As a 
result, the offer turned out to be quite different from how Lloyds indicated it had been 
portrayed. 
Whilst early indications were that the sale of the property would happen quickly, it became 
clear this was unlikely to happen. The buyer was waiting for the outcome of their planning 
application, which was likely to take several weeks. The beneficiaries started to express 
concern about Lloyds management of the Estate, and this was heightened by the discovery 
the property was not being actively marketed by the Estate Agent from the point the offer 
was accepted. 
The beneficiaries made a complaint to Lloyds in May 2019. They said they had been led to 
believe the offer accepted on the property was a cash offer, but this later was found to be 
untrue. They felt the property ought to have continued to be marketed, and that there was a 
lack of communication around the buyers intention to submit a planning application, which 
was never mentioned when the offer was made and accepted. In summary, the beneficiaries 
were concerned the Estate was not being properly managed by Lloyds. 
Lloyds responded to the complaint, saying it felt it was handling the Estate appropriately. It 
noted the planning application had been granted in June 2019, and subsequently its 
solicitors had set a deadline for exchange of contracts by early August 2019. The sale of the 
property was completed in late August 2019. 
However, the beneficiaries remained unhappy, and felt Lloyds should refund the fee it had 
charged. It declined to do so, and the beneficiaries referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. She acknowledged there were 
some failings in the service provided by Lloyds and recommended it pay the beneficiaries 
£250 in recognition of the trouble and upset theyd experienced. Lloyds accepted this 
recommendation, but the beneficiaries didnt. They shared their concerns about Lloyds 
management of the Estate and reiterated their view that to put things right, the fees charged 
ought to be refunded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ive 
explained why below. 
Its clear the level of service provided by Lloyds wasnt always at the level the beneficiaries 
expected, or that Lloyds itself hoped to provide. There were mistakes made that could have 
been avoided. Lloyds wrongly led the beneficiaries to believe an offer had been accepted for 
£475,000 rather than £450,000. As our investigator said, this led to a loss of expectation that 
was avoidable. 
I appreciate the beneficiaries consider the offer accepted was an unconditional cash offer, 
intended to complete on the property sale within a few weeks. They felt Lloyds should have 
taken steps to ensure the property was being actively marketed while the buyer waited for 
the outcome of their planning application. Ive also considered the beneficiaries view Lloyds 
should have ensured the Estate Agent carried out a review of the true financial status of the 
buyer. Essentially, the beneficiaries feel that Lloyds failed to ensure the Estate Agents acted 
on instructions. 
Lloyds asked the Estate Agent to carry out checks on the cash buyer, but as I understand it, 
proof of funds wasnt received by the Estate Agent when it was requested. I think it acted 
reasonably by asking for proof of funds. And when a valuation was arranged by the buyers 
lender, it became clear the buyers offer was reliant on funding, rather than being a cash 
offer. The beneficiaries consider this being identified later in the process as a failing on 
Lloyds part. It supports their view it was one of a number of ways in which they consider 
Lloyds mismanaged the Estate, along with failing to ensure the property remained actively 
marketed. However, while I acknowledge it could have been helpful for more enquiries to be 
carried out when the offer was made, I dont agree that failing to do so amounts to the Estate 
being mismanaged. 
I agree with the conclusion our investigator reached in that the beneficiaries could have been 
kept better informed at points. They were originally told the offer had been accepted and the 
purchase was likely to be completed within a few weeks. However, at the point it became 
clear that a planning application had been made by the buyer, the beneficiaries should have 
been made aware of this, and that the sale was likely to take much longer than initially 
indicated. One of the beneficiaries drew this conclusion for himself. Lloyds has 
acknowledged that it could have done better here. 
I note the beneficiaries say the sale took much longer than initially indicated and that it 
should have been obvious the initially indicated timeframe of 30 days wasnt achievable. I 
can see the sale of the property wasnt completed until August 2019, several months after 
the offer was made and accepted. However, in reviewing the information provided by both 
sides, I havent seen anything which suggests Lloyds, or any of its agents, were directly 
responsible for the time taken for the sale to complete. Ive considered the suggestion from the beneficiaries the Estate might have been financially 
disadvantaged as a result of the property not being actively marketed after the offer was 
accepted. Its not possible to know for certain if an increased offer would have been 
received. However, I consider it unlikely the Estate was financially disadvantaged. I say this 
on the basis when the property was being actively marketed, there was not a significant level 
of interest in it, with only two offers being made.  And I note that the sold marker used 
online was removed, but there was no further interest in the property.
The beneficiaries say the overall service they received wasnt at the level it should have 
been. The beneficiaries say there were multiple instances of correspondence not being 
acknowledged and their concerns not being handled in a timely manner. Some of these 
issues have been acknowledged by Lloyds. For example in the final response letter, it 
acknowledged it could have provided an updated on the progress of the sale at an earlier 
point. 
The beneficiaries have suggested the conclusion of the investigator is that the Estate was 
managed in an acceptable way, but I dont agree this was the conclusion she reached. She 
identified failings with the service Lloyds had provided. However she didnt go as far as the 
beneficiaries wanted in terms of recommending how Lloyds should put thing right.
In summary, I agree there were occasional service failings. However, I dont consider these 
service failings are sufficient to enable me to conclude the Estate was mismanaged, or that 
Lloyds should refund the fee charged as the beneficiaries have asked. I appreciate the 
situation was a difficult one for the beneficiaries as it stemmed from a loved one passing 
away. However, I agree that £250 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation to reflect 
the service failings identified by Lloyds.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay £250 for the trouble and upset 
experienced.
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, Ms T, Mr T, 
Mrs L, Mr P, Mr S, Mrs W, Mrs W and the estate of Mr T to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 April 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman