DRN-4214991
The complaint
Mr H complains about Lowell Financial Ltds actions when trying to recover a debt in his 
name.
What happened
In June 2021 Lowell purchased a store card debt in Mr Hs name. Lowell says it tried to 
contact Mr H using the details provided by the original lender but was unsuccessful. So last 
year, Lowell completed a tracing exercise and found Mr Hs current contact information. 
Lowell went on to contact Mr H. 
Mr H spoke with Lowell and explained he had no knowledge of the account. Mr H went on to 
add that a family member had confirmed that theyd originally applied for the account in his 
name, without his knowledge, back in 2017. Lowell says it carried out a fraud investigation 
but because the account was operated for a period of more than six months it didnt agree 
there was fraud involved. 
Lowell was later contacted by a third party who explained they were the family member who 
had originally opened Mr Hs account. But because Lowell didnt have authority to discuss 
Mr Hs account with anyone else, it wasnt able to take matters further. 
Lowell placed various hold periods in relation to its collections activities following contact 
from Mr H. 
Lowell says it referred the matter back to the original lender, N, but wasnt advised that the 
debt should be recalled or had come about due to fraud. Mr H later provided a statement 
from his family member that confirmed theyd opened the account without his knowledge. 
Lowell issued a final response in April 2023 and reiterated it was confident the account 
wasnt fraudulent. But Lowell said it was willing to accept further information from Mr H in 
support of his claims. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Hs complaint and upheld it. They spoke with 
Lowell and it agreed to remove the default from Mr Hs credit file said it would take steps to 
try and return the account to the original lender. Lowell also agreed to pay Mr H £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Lowell agreed to proceed in line with the investigators recommendations. But Mr H asked to 
appeal and said that he didnt agree a payment of £100 was a fair reflection of the trouble 
and upset caused. Mr H explained hed had to take time off of work to resolve matters and 
that the issues raised had caused an unreasonable level of distress and inconvenience. As 
Mr H asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I can understand why Mr H was shocked and upset to be contacted by Lowell. Mr H has 
explained he didnt open the store card with N originally and was unaware of the accounts 
existence until he was contacted by Lowell. And Mr H has told us he was unaware of the 
default recorded on his credit file as well. I understand a family member has confirmed they 
opened the account in his name and provided a statement to that effect. I dont doubt what 
Mr H has told us or the level of upset caused by the situation.
Our investigator thought Lowell had taken longer than necessary to deal with Mr Hs 
concerns about how the account was initially opened. I agree, in part, that there were delays. 
But I think its fair to note that some of the delays were outside of Lowells control. Once Mr 
H explained the account had been opened as a result of fraud, it contacted N for instructions 
on how to proceed. But no direction to send the debt back was received from N and it didnt 
confirm the account had been opened by a third party. 
In addition, whilst Mr Hs family member appears to have called Lowell to try and resolve 
matters, there was no authority recorded that allowed the business to discuss the account 
with them. So whilst I agree there were periods where Lowell couldve moved things forward 
quicker, I havent been persuaded it was responsible for all the delays Mr H experienced. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint and asked Lowell to ensure the default is removed 
from his credit file. Lowell has confirmed it will take steps to remove the default on resolution 
of Mr Hs complaint. In addition, Lowell has confirmed it will take steps to return the account 
to N and that it will no longer seek to collect the outstanding balance. That means Mr Hs 
credit file will be returned to the correct position. I appreciate that there may have been an 
impact to Mr H in terms of the default recorded. But I think that reflects the situation overall 
and position of the account when it was sold to Lowell. 
Lowell has agreed to pay Mr H £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I understand how upsetting the situation was. But I have to take into account that 
not all of the issues raised were Lowells responsibility. Having considered all the available 
information, Im satisfied a payment of £100 reasonably reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr H and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Lowell Financial Ltd to settle as 
follows: 
- Remove the default and all information reported on Mr Hs credit file
- Either return the account to N or cease attempts to collect from Mr H
- Pay Mr H £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman