DRN-2918648
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zopa Bank Limited has treated him unfairly by the way it has priced 
loans he invested in through the Peer to Peer (P2P) lending account he holds on its 
platform. He believes this has led to led to him overpaying for loans he acquired on the 
secondary market.  
What happened
Mr M holds three crowdfunding accounts on Zopas P2P lending platform  he opened his 
accounts between 2016 and 2017. Zopas platform allows investors to lend money to 
borrowers in return for interest payments. An investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total 
loan a borrower is looking to borrow, and in return an investor receives interest on their loan 
part. At the time of Mr Ms complaint, Zopa provided a secondary market - which meant 
investors could acquire existing loans and also gain access to their funds early by selling 
their loan parts to other investors.
In June 2020, Mr M queried the amount he had paid for a loan on the secondary market. 
Due to the impact of the global pandemic he was expecting an adjustment to be made to 
reflect the risk of default increasing as a result of the prevailing market conditions.  Zopa 
responded to the query and explained when loans are sold, the seller exiting the market may 
pay a market rate adjustment (MRA) cost. The MRA will be paid by the seller, to the 
purchaser, should the sold loans have a lower projected return than a newly originated loan 
would. As a purchaser Mr M, would be paid the difference in the interest upfront. 
Mr M queried several loans that had been purchased on his account in the first half of 2020 
via the secondary market. He was concerned that the risk of these loans had increased but 
he didnt receive an MRA discount on the purchase to reflect this. As Mr M wasnt satisfied 
with the explanation Zopa provided he raised a complaint. 
Zopa responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
- The way MRA works means A rated loans are likely to have a larger discount 
because these loans are expected to pay on time, so when a loan suddenly shows 
signs of late payments, it would be discounted more heavily. However, if a loan is in 
the C market, it would expect there to be some late payments, so if this happens, it is 
considered normal. And therefore, it may not provide much of a discount for that 
loan. This is why there are bigger market rate adjustment for A rated loans with late 
payments, but not much of an adjustment for C rated loans with late payments.
- The loans C and D rated loans Mr M has picked up in mid-2020 had performed as 
expected or better than expected at the time they were acquired and this is the 
reason why no MRA discount was applied when they were added to his account.
- While some of the loans Mr M has picked up from the secondary market that didnt 
attract an MRA have since entered into arrangements, this forms part of the risks 
involved when lending using a P2P platform.  When Mr M acquired these loans, they 
had all made payments on time and were performing well. So despite its best efforts 
and modelling, it cant predict the future behaviour of a borrower or how their 
circumstances may change.  
Mr M still felt that his complaint hadnt been answered to his satisfaction, so referred it to this 
service for independent review. He remained unhappy with the way Zopa calculate and 
apply MRAs. He doesnt think the cost of taking on loans form the secondary market 
accurately reflects the level of risk he was taking compared to new loans that are more 
accurately priced when considering the impact of the pandemic. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, he said he thought Zopa needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the greater risk 
caused by the pandemic was fairly reflected in the pricing  and he was satisfied it had done 
that when loans were added to Mr Ms account.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators assessment. In summary he said:
- He understood the impact of the pandemic meant that the expected defaults 
increased across the board, so he expected the same reduction in returns across all 
loans.
- He doesnt agree that there would be a significant difference in the impact on an A 
rated loan compared to a D or E rated loan.
- The impact the pandemic had on the market means a proven payment record is 
meaningless. The margin for uncertainty caused by the pandemic means a "proven 
track record" isnt an excuse not to do anything. As Zopa stopped underwriting new D 
and E rated loans during this period, he doesnt think it should have allowed for any 
D or E rated loans to trade on the secondary market, let alone at par.  
As no agreement could be reached, Mr M asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision on 
his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms accounts involve him investing funds on Zopas P2P platform - which through an 
automated process are allocated to loans that meet his lending criteria. His funds are 
allocated to either new borrowers or by taking on loans that other lenders have put up for 
sale on Zopas secondary market. 
As part of the process of transferring existing loans from other lenders loans on the 
secondary market, Zopa introduced an additional feature in the terms called a Market Rate 
Adjustment (MRA). Zopa see this as a benefit for investors acquiring loans on secondary 
market by offering a discount to reflect changes in risk.
During the period from March 2020 to when Mr M raised his complaint, he disputes that 
MRAs were applied correctly when he acquired loan parts through the secondary market. He 
has made reference to loans he acquired not benefitting form an MRA discount  which he 
thinks should have due to the prevailing market conditions. 
Zopa has provided details of its Investment Principles to show when an MRA may be 
applied on traded loan parts. This says:
There may be occasions when the projected returns on the loans you want to sell are lower 
than the returns currently available to investors for loans which have a similar expected 
performance to yours. To encourage investors to buy your loan if this happens, we'll work out an additional amount (the market rate adjustment), equal to the additional return they 
would expect to earn, and deduct it from the amount the new investor must pay you.
Example - where there's £10 left to pay on the loan you want to sell.
If the interest rate on your loan is the same as the rate an investor would be paid on 
a new loan and all repayments have been made on time, the projected return for your 
loan is likely to be the same, so the purchasing investor may pay you £10.
If the interest rate on your loan is lower than the rate an investor would be paid on a 
new loan and not all repayments have been made on time, the projected return for 
your loan is likely to be less, so the purchasing investor may pay you 
£9.80. Effectively the other 20p is treated as an upfront interest payment to the 
investor buying your loan.
The application of the MRA is a re-pricing instrument applied to loans which are sold on the 
secondary market. I say this as Zopa has confirmed it doesnt receive any money from the 
transfer payment. Instead its paid directly to investors who acquire loan parts via the 
secondary market. It acts as discount incentive to those acquiring loans into their account. In 
June 2019 the regulator, the FCA, published its policy statement on Loan-based (peer-to- 
peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms  Feedback to CP18/20 and final 
rules. In this, the FCA provided clarity around when and how often crowdfunding platforms 
should re-price loans. It implemented this by way of introducing new rules which came into 
force in December 2019. The rules required Zopa to ensure that the price offered for exiting 
the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate. So Zopa had a responsibility in how it priced 
loans and by applying an MRA, Im satisfied that this was what it was attempting to do   
But Mr M doesnt think the method Zopa has used adequately captured the risks on loans 
during the coronavirus pandemic. He doesnt think the pricing has been adapted for an 
environment where the financial stability of its borrowers has had a trigger / step change risk 
event. This leads him to believe he has overpaid for secondary market purchases (and 
correspondingly the sellers of these loans have benefited). Mr M has provided examples of 
loans he believes should have had an MRA applied but didnt  and later ran into payment 
problems.
Zopa has provided an explanation of why some loans are more likely to receive MRA. It 
rates loans based on risk with A rated loans expected to contain the least risk and at the 
other end of the scale E rate loans containing the highest level of risk of default. Zopa 
explains that A rated loans were more likely to have an MRA applied as a result in the 
change in market conditions caused by the pandemic. This is because when they originated, 
they were expected to be good performing loans  so the negative change in the market had 
a greater impact on expected returns. Zopa also explain if a loan is higher risk to start with  
the way the MRA works isnt to discount it further. The MRA is aimed at compensating 
account holders where the risk of default has changed significantly from what was expected 
when the loan  so naturally less risky A graded loans which then run into payment issues 
will fall into this category.
Zopa has provided further information about the loan parts that Mr M acquired between 
March and June 2020. I acknowledge that Mr M has provided examples of some loans that 
he acquired in the first half of 2020 that didnt have an MRA applied. But Ive also seen that 
he did receive an MRA discount on over 50 loans parts that he acquired during the period 
March to June 2020. As explained above, the lower risk loans (A and B rated) are more 
likely to have an MRA applied than higher risk loans. I find this explanation to be reasonable 
and supports that the discounts applied were to reflect the risk profile of individual loans. 
Zopa has further explained the factors determining when an MRA will be applied - these are: - when the pricing environment has changed (i.e. where a C rated loan today would 
attract a higher interest rate than when the loan was originated) or;
- if the loan has been in arrears in the past. 
So, while the prevailing market conditions were the same for all loans, Zopa didnt take a 
blanket approach to discount all loans  instead it re-priced according to the rates offered for 
newly originated loans and the actual loan performance. I find this to be a reasonable 
approach to take. This is the reason why it was possible for some of Mr Ms C to E rated 
loans to not have been re-priced, and others were (presumably because these loans had 
already preformed below expectations). The fact a C rated loan that didnt have an MRA 
applied performs badly after it was acquired, doesnt automatically mean Zopa must have 
priced it incorrectly  especially if the payment history had been good up to the point it was 
acquired. The approach Zopa has taken to include payment history up to date of transfer of 
loan is line with the FCA guidance mention above about re-pricing. I agree it is fair and 
reasonable to discount a loan that has a history of late payments. It follows, not re-pricing a 
loan that has performed well doesnt lead me to think Zopa must have treated Mr M unfairly. 
The pricing environment does also need to be considered. As explained above, the global 
pandemic did have an impact on market conditions. But from a pricing perspective Zopa has 
explained this was felt more for A rated loans as they were expected to be better performing 
loans when they originated. So, I accept the possibility that despite changes in market 
conditions, for riskier loans, it is possible that the pricing environment hasnt changed 
significantly  as they were already priced with a higher expected risk of payment problems.  
So as explained above, I dont agree that it would have been better (and fairer) for Zopa to 
take a blanket approach when assessing the re-pricing of loans. 
Mr M says the failure rate ended up being higher for the loans that he acquired without an 
MRA applied. There is always an inherent risk with this type of investment  as capital and 
interest payments arent guaranteed. The application of an MRA to loan purchases doesnt 
alleviate that risk. The risk of losses is dependent on borrowers ability to meet repayments 
when they become due. So, I dont think I can say that the way Zopa applied MRAs to Mr 
Ms loans has caused him a loss. The losses hes suffered on some loans are down to the 
performance of those loans. And it is only with hindsight that we can assess whether loans 
performed as expected. The fact that some loans that did have an MRA applied performed 
well, doesnt mean the MRA was applied incorrectly  and vice versa. 
While, I understand Mr Ms disappointment with some of the loans he acquired without a 
discount, Im not satisfied he has provided sufficient evidence and arguments to say hes 
been treated unfairly by Zopa. For the reasons explain, I dont find that Zopa need to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman