DRN-2303189
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy at the time it took TTT Moneycorp Ltd to refund a cancelled payment to his 
card and feels theres a systemic issue with such refunds that needs to be addressed.
What happened
Mr J had a prepaid card provided by Moneycorp via Mastercard. On 14 January 2020 he 
tried to make a withdrawal of 500 euros at an ATM using this card. The transaction didnt go 
through and although the receipt said it had been cancelled and no money was issued, 500 
euros was debited from Mr Js card.
The next day Mr J contacted Moneycorp to query what had happened and why the money 
hadnt been refunded. In a number of calls between Moneycorp and Mr J between 18 and 21 
January, Moneycorp couldnt agree to make an immediate refund without evidence the 
money hadnt been paid out as it was still being shown as a pending transaction. 
Mr J complained and his complaint was then passed to Mastercard who explained that it 
couldnt make the refund until there was receipt from the ATM showing no money had been 
dispensed and this could take up to 7 days. The money was refunded to Mr Js card on 23 
January 2020.
Mr J feels that the process for refunding payment in these type of cases is too slow and that 
it should be done within 24 hours, not 7, days to avoid further inconvenience, and possible 
hardship, to the customer. He says he was told its a known problem but that Moneycorp and 
Mastercard havent taken steps to resolve it. Mr Js also unhappy that Mastercard has 
responded to his complaint and not Moneycorp, who issued the card.
Mastercard said under its agreement with Moneycorp, its responsible for handling any 
complaints which is why it was responding to Mr Js concerns. It had looked into Mr Js 
complaint and agreed that the calls could have been handled better. It apologised and 
offered £75 compensation for the inconvenience and upset this had caused.
With regard to the cancelled payment, however, it was satisfied that the problem lay with the 
ATM, not the card. It said it wasnt able to refund the payment immediately because the 
transaction had proceeded sufficiently for an authorisation code to be issued by the ATM 
and for that reason, it had to wait for confirmation that the money hadnt been dispensed. It 
didnt agree it or Moneycorp had made an error with the transaction or the refund. 
Our investigator agreed with Mastercard that the problem appeared to be with the ATM and 
that Moneycorp wasnt responsible for this. Although thered been some issues with the 
handling of Mr Js complaint, he felt Mastercards offer of £75 was reasonable for the 
inconvenience this had caused. 
He understood Mr J felt there was a systemic issue that hadnt been resolved but it was for 
each bank to decide how best to manage its services and we couldnt interfere with that.
Mr J disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He said, in 
summary that this was a known problem that impacted on customers and for which 
Moneycorp wasnt being held to account.  He also noted that the ATM involved belonged to 
the bank who had issued the Moneycorp card to him and he felt Moneycorp could have done 
more to contact them to try and resolve this quicker. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I consider that Moneycorp has dealt with the complaint fairly and I wont be 
asking it to do anything more as Ill now explain.
In this case Moneycorp was the provider of the prepaid card but it was done under an 
arrangement with Mastercard and, as a part of that arrangement, Mastercard was 
responsible for dealing with customer complaints. That a business arrangement that I cant 
interfere with but I confirm the complaint remains recorded against Moneycorp.
I also note that Mr J feels his complaint is part of a known problem that requires changes to 
the system to assist the consumer. I appreciate his concerns but its not open to me to tell 
Moneycorp how to manage its operations. That a commercial decision thats outside the 
scope of my decision. Any changes to the regulations and business processes can only be 
directed by the regulator, not this service.
Turning to Mr Js complaint, theres no dispute the ATM transaction on 14 January failed and 
that the 500 euros hed requested wasnt dispensed. I can appreciate how frustrating that 
was and why Mr J expected the funds to be returned as soon as possible.
However, by the time it was cancelled, the payment had been authorised and, for that 
reason, Mastercard had to wait for confirmation from the ATM provider that the money hadnt 
been paid out and that it wouldnt be asking Mastercard to pay for the withdrawal. 
Mastercards explained that this can take up to seven days.
I realise Mr J feels this is too long and that a delay of this length could cause serious 
hardship to some customers. I appreciate his concerns and Id agree its a difficult position 
for any customer but the ATM in this case was provided by a separate bank and Mastercard 
had no authority to require them to provide the information sooner.  
Mr J says the ATM in this case was managed by the same bank that had issued him with the 
Moneycorp card. As such he feels Moneycorp could have done more to contact it to get the 
issue resolved sooner. I note what he says but the timescales reflect the need for verification 
of the transaction -or its failure  and thats a system issue that cant be changed on an 
individual basis.
I think it would have been helpful if Mr J had been given a clearer explanation at the start to 
manage his expectations. This didnt happen but Mastercards acknowledged this and 
offered Mr J £75 compensation for the fact it could have dealt with his complaint better. 
I understand Mr J doesnt feel this addresses the core issue, which is the process, but as 
Ive explained I cant look at the process and I have to consider what happened in Mr Js 
individual case.  Having done so I consider that the offer is fair for his inconvenience caused 
by the way his complaint was dealt with. As theres nothing to show that Moneycorp or 
Mastercard were at fault for the failure of this transaction or for the time it took to arrange the 
refund, I cant ask them to do anything more in this regard.I understand the offer of £75 compensation is still open and if Mr J wishes to accept, Id ask 
him to contact Mastercard direct
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman