DRN-3463111
The complaint
Mr H complains that a payment he made using Barclays Bank UK Plc hasnt reached the 
supplier he intended to pay nor has it been returned to him.
What happened
Mr H runs a business for which he purchases supplies from abroad.
On 22 April 2020, Mr H made an international payment online. This payment was converted 
into US dollars and sent to a bank in America. Mr H says it was then supposed to be sent on 
to his suppliers account in China. However, his supplier let Mr H know that it never received 
this payment. 
Mr H raised this with Barclays, he also asked for the payment to be recalled so he could 
send it again.
Barclays used the SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication) 
system to ask the receiving bank in America to return the payment, but no funds were 
returned.
Mr H was then told by his supplier that the problem was that the bank in America hadnt 
been given the SWIFT code needed to instruct it to send the funds on to the correct account 
in China. Mr H gave Barclays this code and asked it to pass this onto the bank in America. 
Barclays did this, but the funds have still not been received by the supplier in China.
Barclays says that the payment was executed correctly and in line with Mr Hs instructions. It 
says Mr Hs payment made no reference to the receiving bank in America being an 
intermediary, or that the funds would be paid onto an account in China. Barclays says that 
the way the payment was formatted was just to pay the bank in America. It says its done all 
it can to try and recover Mr Hs funds for him.
Mr H doesnt think Barclays has done enough, he cant locate his funds and thinks they 
should be returned if they cant be sent on to his supplier.
When Mr H complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She 
didnt think Barclays had made an error with the payment and though it had acted fairly in 
attempting to recover Mr Hs funds for him. 
Mr H didnt agree  he said if the funds are stuck with the bank in America then Barclays 
should deal with them and reimburse him. He also said that if information was missing in his 
instructions then this should have been picked up as part of processing the payment and 
been flagged to him. Mr H doesnt think Barclays has proven that it did make the payment 
correctly.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Mr H made the disputed payment online and so it was executed based on the information he 
entered. Theres no evidence that there was any error in how this payment was executed by 
Barclays. Barclays has provided Mr H with confirmation of the payment instruction which 
shows the account information used. I appreciate Mr H would find it helpful to have evidence 
that the correct account was credited, but Barclays wouldnt have access to customer 
accounts at another bank. 
International payments are made on an irrevocable basis  and by the time Mr H raised the 
issue with Barclays it would have been too late to cancel the payment. Barclays used the 
SWIFT system to attempt to recall Mr Hs payment and made multiple attempts to help Mr H. 
SWIFT is a secure messaging system that allows banks to instruct each other on payments 
and accounts that they hold with each other. Unfortunately, the only response they received 
from what appears to be the correspondent bank was that they had requested debit authority 
on multiple occasions but had not received a response to the recall request. This means that 
the bank in America hasnt agreed to return the funds to Barclays. Barclays also passed on 
further information as requested by Mr H i.e. the SWIFT code for making an onward 
payment. So, I think Barclays has acted reasonably here.
It appears more likely than not that the funds were correctly received by the bank in America, 
and that Mr Hs instructions didnt include that the payment was supposed to be sent on to 
another account in China. This wouldnt necessarily mean that Barclays ought to have seen 
information was missing from the instruction as it wouldnt have known Mr H intended for the 
bank in America to act as an intermediary rather than be the recipient of his funds. 
Whilst it is understandable that Mr H wants to receive a refund if his payment doesnt reach 
his supplier, Barclays cant make the bank in America return his funds. And I dont think it 
would be fair to hold Barclays responsible for Mr Hs loss when it executed the payment 
correctly and made reasonable attempts to recall the payment.
For these reasons, I dont think Barclays needs to do anything further in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman