DRN-1986240
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund a number of cash withdrawals 
made from their current account that they say they didnt make.
Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint has been brought in part by Mrs Cs representatives but, for 
clarity, Ill just refer to Mr C and Mrs C in my decision.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C say that eight cash withdrawals at ATMs between March and April 2019 
werent made by them. The withdrawals were all for £500 and were done at several different 
ATMs. They also complained about the lack of co-operation and incorrect information Lloyds 
gave the police, and about delays in Lloyds responses to them.
Lloyds investigated the withdrawals but refused to refund them as it said it couldnt see how 
someone else wouldve known the PIN for the card used and that there were genuine 
transactions in between the disputed ones. Lloyds accepted there were delays in its 
response and that it had given incorrect information to the police, and offered £200 
compensation. Mr C and Mrs C werent happy with Lloyds response, so referred their 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said he felt it was likely Mr C and Mrs C 
had authorised the withdrawals, so Lloyds didnt need to refund them. Mr C and Mrs C 
disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Lloyds needs to refund the withdrawals to Mr C and Mrs C. Ill 
explain why below.
Generally, Lloyds can hold Mr C and Mrs C liable for disputed transactions on their account 
if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that they made them themselves or told 
someone else they could make them with their card.
Lloyds has sent us technical evidence showing how the disputed withdrawals were made. 
And, from this, Im satisfied that Mr C and Mrs Cs genuine card and PIN were used to make 
each of the eight withdrawals.
But the relevant regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Lloyds to hold 
Mr C and Mrs C liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more 
likely than not that Mr C and Mrs C consented to the withdrawals being made with their card.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mr C and Mrs C say the card was last used to make a payment in branch, which appears to 
have been on 13 March 2019. And theyve suggested the branch manager couldve seen 
Mr C enter the PIN and then taken the card, as Mr Cs cards were all spread out on the 
managers desk.
But the general nature of these withdrawals isnt the sort of thing a thief would normally do 
after stealing a card. Generally, the way thieves operate is to get as much money as quickly 
as possible in order to avoid the source of money being cut-off or them being detected. But 
here, theres a gap of three days between the branch meeting and the first disputed 
withdrawal, a further ten days before the second disputed withdrawal and several gaps of 
between two and seven days between some of the other withdrawals. A thief would also 
generally continue taking money until the card was blocked or the balance of the account 
was emptied. But here the withdrawals stop around a week before Mr C and Mrs C reported 
the card missing and while there was still a significant available balance in the account. So I 
dont think its likely thats what happened here.
Mr C and Mrs C have said Mrs C has been in a nursing home for years, so wouldnt have 
made the withdrawals, and that Mr C is elderly and has limited mobility, so wouldnt have 
travelled to make the withdrawals or done so late in the evening when some of the 
withdrawals were made. But they dont need to have physically made the withdrawals 
themselves for Lloyds to hold them liable, only to have consented to them.
Theyve said the PIN for the card wasnt written down, was different to the PIN for any other 
cards and no-one else knew it. But if this is the case, I cant see how someone who took the 
card would know Mr C and Mrs Cs PIN. Lloyds evidence shows the PIN was entered 
correctly at the first attempt each time, with no incorrect tries. And given the number of 
possible combinations, its extremely unlikely someone could guess the PIN correctly first 
time. So I think its likely whoever made the withdrawals, knew the PIN. And as they knew 
the PIN, in the absence of any other likely explanation, I think its more likely than not that 
Mr C and Mrs C consented to the withdrawals.
It therefore follows that I dont need to look into whether the transactions were unusual in 
comparison to Mr C and Mrs Cs usual activity on the account or whether Lloyds should have 
identified the withdrawals as potentially fraudulent as, even if it had done so, I think its likely 
Mr C and Mrs C would have confirmed they had authorised them.
I appreciate how Mr C and Mrs C feel about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in 
their favour. So I think Lloyds has acted reasonably in holding them responsible for the 
withdrawals and I dont think it needs to refund the withdrawals to them.
Lloyds has accepted there were delays in its response and that it gave incorrect information 
to the police about the timings of the withdrawals. It apologised for this and paid £200 as 
compensation. And I think this is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress the 
delays and disruption to the police investigation will have caused Mr C and Mrs C. But I dont 
think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to refund the amounts of the withdrawals because, as I 
explained above, I think its likely Mr C and Mrs C authorised them.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman