DRN-4086135
The complaint
Mr S complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited didnt provide him with 
clear information about his breakdown cover.
What happened
First Central acted as an intermediary when Mr S took out breakdown cover, alongside his 
motor insurance policy.
In late 2022, Mr S called First Central as he had a flat tyre and was having difficulty 
removing the wheel. First Central put him through to the helpdesk of the roadside assistance 
insurance provider. The roadside assistance provider told Mr S it wouldnt be sending 
anyone out to assist him because his MOT had expired more than three months before. 
Mr S explained that there was a backlog of three months with the Driver & Vehicle agency in 
Northern Ireland and hed booked the earliest MOT test date possible. Mr S was told that the 
roadside assistance provider was giving a maximum grace period of three months for out-of-
date MOT certificates issued in Northern Ireland. Mr S says he was informed that his MOT 
certificate was outside of the grace period by a couple of days.
Mr S raised complaints with both the roadside assistance provider and First Central. He 
complained to First Central that it had sold him a car insurance policy that did not include 
terms and conditions relating to the service provided by the policys roadside assistance 
provider, primarily relating to the three month grace period in relation to MOT certificates 
issued in Northern Ireland.
Mr S didnt receive a response to his complaint from First Central, so he asked our service to 
consider his concerns. Our investigator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She 
didnt think First Central needed to provide Mr S with specific information about an exception 
in the breakdown cover for a temporary issue.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said his complaint was about First 
Central selling him a car insurance policy that had a hidden clause, which was not visible 
anywhere in the documentation it had provided. He referred to legislation he felt was 
relevant to his complaint. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr S that I have considered all of his points. Ive focused my comments 
on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S has provided a copy of the documentation he received from First Central when he took 
out the insurance with it.
In the policy booklet there is a section for breakdown cover. Within this it states what isnt 
covered and included in the list is:
f) the vehicle if it is not legally taxed, insured and holding a valid MOT which is required by 
law or is not being used in line with the manufacturers guidelines.
There is also a general conditions section in the policy booklet which says:
Your car must be taxed where applicable and registered in the UK with the DVLA or DVLNI 
and is covered by a valid Department of Transport test certificate (MOT) if one is needed by 
law.
This means that the policy didnt provide breakdown cover for vehicles without a valid MOT. 
Mr S has confirmed receiving the policy booklet, so Im satisfied that First Central made him 
aware of the terms when he took the policy out.
Mr S says First Direct didnt make him aware of a hidden clause regarding a three month 
grace period for MOT tests, applicable to drivers from Northern Ireland. He says he was 
initially refused roadside assistance by the provider who applied the hidden clause when he 
called them over the phone.
Ive reviewed information on the Northern Ireland government services website regarding the 
high demand for MOT tests around the time of Mr Ss claim. It said the Driver and Vehicle 
Agency (DVA) had consulted with the Association of British Insurers (ABI) to make them 
aware of the situation. It went on to say:
The ABI has confirmed that the lack of a valid MOT certificate would not necessarily 
invalidate a motor insurance policy. However they say that if you cant get a test appointment 
until after the current certificate expires, you should check your policy documents or speak to 
your insurer.
These arrangements only apply in Northern Ireland. They do not cover you to use your 
vehicle without a valid MOT certificate in other jurisdictions.
So, there appears to have been an expectation that the insurer (i.e. the roadside assistance 
provider) should give some consideration to the difficulties a policyholder in Northern Ireland 
might have in getting a valid MOT before rejecting a claim.
I appreciate Mr S feels that a three month grace period on MOTs wasnt enough. However, 
the complaint Ive been asked to decide isnt about the actions of the insurer. Its about First 
Central, the intermediary who sold the policy to Mr S. 
Im not persuaded that there was a hidden clause in the policy regarding a three month 
grace period. According to the terms of the policy, Mr S was required to have a valid MOT. A 
three month grace period for expired MOTs put him in a better position than what it said 
under the terms of the policy. So, Im not persuaded that this was something First Central 
needed to let him know about. 
In any event, Mr S says that after he complained to it the roadside assistance provider 
decided it would help him. Mr S says his wheel was replaced satisfactorily the same day he 
made his claim. So, he doesnt appear to have lost out on the benefit of the policy.I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr S, but Im not persuaded that First Central has 
done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman