DRN-4201764
The complaint
Mr J complains about Santander UK Plc.
He says that Santander didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of a 
flight scam and would like it to repay him the money he has lost as a result.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr J and his wife, Mrs J, were trying to urgently locate flights to visit Mr 
Js brother in America, who was sadly terminally ill.
The looked online and found a number supposedly for Dial a Flight. They called the number 
as advertised on the website they found and spoke with an agent who supposedly worked 
for Dial a Flight.
They were told that they could purchase two business class tickets, flying from Heathrow the 
next day with British Airways for around £6,000.
They were also told by the agent that the payment would need to be split between different 
companies. 
Mr Js Santander Credit card was used to pay £2,800.28 across four payments for the 
supposed flights, with the remainder being paid on Mrs Js credit card with a different 
provider. They were sent an email confirming the flights supposedly from British Airways  
but not the tickets which they were told would follow in a few hours.
However, the agent was actually a scammer, and used Mr Js credit card to purchase four 
separate flights for other individuals, which were all used.
Mr J realised something was wrong when he didnt receive his tickets the next day and 
called back the scammer who made up excuses as to why they hadnt been received. He 
realised he had been the victim of a scam.
Mr J made a complaint to Santander, while his wife did the same with her credit card 
provider.
Santander attempted a chargeback on Mr Js behalf  but only one of these was successful 
at £497.25. It didnt uphold his complaint and said it couldnt help any further.
Unhappy, Mr J brought his complaint to this Service. Our Investigator looked into things but 
didnt think that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr J remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as 
our Investigator. I know that this will be very disappointing for Mr J, and I can understand 
that the whole episode has been deeply distressing, and this has been further compounded 
by the sad circumstances surrounding the need for urgent flights. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr J has been the victim of a scam and has lost money as a result  
but I need to decide if the loss he suffered could have been prevented by Santander  and 
Im afraid that I dont think that Santander could have prevented what happened here. Ill 
explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr J isnt liable for payments he 
didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms of 
the account or keep his personalised security details safe. But I am satisfied that Mr J did 
authorise the payments  he provided his card details over the phone to the scammer and 
also provided the one-time passcodes Santander sent him to the scammer too.
While I understand that Mr J didnt intend for the payments to be used as part of a flight 
scam and was tricked by the scammer, this doesnt change the fact that he authorised the 
payment in the first instance, and businesses are generally expected to act on their 
customers instructions.
That said, there are some circumstances where a business should have taken proactive 
steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Santander didnt contact Mr J about any of the payments that he made  but I dont think that 
it needed to. The payments were made to genuine airlines, and the amounts that were paid 
were not unusual for the type of transaction that was being made. And even if Santander 
had contacted Mr J  I still dont think that the scam would have been uncovered. Mr J had 
located the number for what he thought was Dial a Flight himself, and knew he was making 
payments for flights, and the number of payments. So had Santander questioned him about 
it, I dont think that it would have had any concerns about what Mr J was doing. So, I dont 
think it missed an opportunity to prevent the loss.I know that Santander attempted a chargeback from the airlines on behalf of Mr J  but only 
one of these was successful. I dont know why this particular airline decided to agree to the 
refund, but as the flights had been used (albeit not by Mr J and his wife) the other three 
airlines had provided the services that had been requested of them. So, I dont think its likely 
that the other chargebacks would have ever been successful. 
Unfortunately, Mr J also doesnt enjoy protection under the Section 75 Consumer credit Act 
1974 either  as the service that was purchased (the flights) were provided and used. While I 
know that it wasnt Mr J that used them, he did authorise the purchase, even if he was 
tricked into doing so. So, Im afraid that the option to make a claim in this way is not 
available to Mr J.
I also understand that Mr J is upset that his wife has been refunded by her credit card 
provider as a gesture of goodwill for the payments that she made on her own credit card. 
However, this was the choice of her credit card provider. Im not able to direct or compel 
Santander to make such an offer when I dont think that it has done anything wrong.
I am very sorry for the situation Mr J now finds himself in. He has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and has lost a lot of money as a result. But this loss was caused by the scammers 
themselves  and not Santander. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman