DRN-2439987
The complaint
 Miss G and Mr K complained about the mortgage advice given to them by Stepping Stones 
Financial Planning LLP.
They say this meant they lost money by having to pay for unsuitable re-mortgage advice, 
extra stamp duty and legal costs.
What happened
 Miss G and Mr K owned a leasehold property. The existing lease was only 56 years, and 
there had been problems getting a longer lease. They found a property they wanted to move 
to, on which theyd also want to carry out home improvements. 
Miss G and Mr K met an adviser from Stepping Stones on 21 May 2019. They took all their 
documents with them, including the title deeds for their current property. They explained the 
situation. They also said that Miss G would be selling another property abroad, which would 
cover renovation costs on their new property. 
The mortgage fact-finding document from that meeting includes a heading Years on lease.  
Stepping Stones adviser filled in that section with  TBC. Client in the process of extending.
Stepping Stones recommended to Miss G and Mr K that what they should do was to keep 
their current property and change their existing mortgage into a buy-to-let mortgage. So Miss 
G and Mr K would have a residential mortgage on the property they wanted to buy, and a 
buy-to-let mortgage on their existing property. Miss G and Mr K said that Stepping Stones 
also told them that if they did that, theyd save a lot of money in stamp duty. 
A valuation was carried out on Miss G and Mr Ks property by Stepping Stones 
recommended lender. The property was down-valued, but the lender issued a mortgage 
offer. Stepping Stones had also recommended another lender for the purchase of the new 
property, and a mortgage offer was issued on that property too.
But the transactions didnt go through quickly, because of the problems with the lease.  At 
the end of July, the seller of the property Miss G and Mr K wanted to buy said they were 
going to put the house back on the market because of the delays. 
Miss G and Mr K asked Stepping Stones whether they could go ahead with the new 
purchase without re-mortgaging their existing property, and whether this meant theyd pay 
more stamp duty. Stepping Stones replied that obviously the re-mortgage of your current 
address is going to take some time to go through due to the land registry issues discussed.  
On 6 August, Miss G and Mr Ks conveyancer said that the existing lease on Miss G and Mr 
Ks property was 56 years, not 85 years which was recorded on the mortgage valuation 
report. Stepping Stones recommended lender had a minimum lease term of 70 years. This 
meant that the mortgage offer which the lender had issued couldnt go ahead.
Stepping Stones then recommended a replacement buy-to-let re-mortgage for Miss G and 
Mr Ks existing property. It asked Miss G and Mr K to pay a further £195 for this advice. 
But Miss G and Mr K said they didnt want to go ahead with Stepping Stones replacement 
recommendation, and they complained. They said theyd been led to believe they were 
taking out a product which was appropriate for their needs. They asked for compensation, to 
cover the £295 fee for the original re-mortgage advice, and £4,847 stamp duty and £315 
legal costs, which they said the poor advice had cost them.
Stepping Stones didnt agree. In its final response letter, it acknowledged that Miss G and Mr 
K had told them about problems with the lease extension, but it said it wasnt authorised to 
provide advice on contractual issues. Stepping Stones also said that at the initial meeting, its 
adviser had spoken to the conveyancing firm and They stated at the time if you will only 
own one residential home you will not be liable for additional stamp duty tax Stepping 
Stones do not and cannot advise on UK tax liabilities. Only your conveyancer, HMRC or a 
qualified tax accountant can formally do this.  Miss G and Mr K have disagreed that this call 
happened, saying the adviser couldnt have phoned their conveyancer at the initial meeting 
because they hadnt at that point chosen one.
Stepping Stones also said that, at the time when Miss G and Mr K had asked if they could go 
ahead with the purchase of the new property without the re-mortgage of the existing 
property:
We also made you aware if you would retain 2 residential properties there could be further 
tax costs (stamp duty) and asked if you had provisions for this. 
Stepping Stones told Miss G and Mr K that it had completed fact findings, spent a great deal 
of time on advice, and had provided mortgage offers which met Miss G and Mr Ks needs. It 
said it could not provide advice on tax or legal contracts for leasehold but had endeavoured 
to provide help and support in these areas.
Miss G and Mr K werent satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He didnt think Stepping Stones had done 
anything wrong, as it wasnt permitted to comment on lease issues. It also wasnt for the 
adviser to advise of the full costs of stamp duty.
Miss G and Mr K werent satisfied. They said that they had told Stepping Stones adviser 
about the problem with the lease from the beginning. They felt that Stepping Stones had 
given them the wrong advice, and asked for an ombudsman decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I also explained that there had been multiple points raised 
in the submissions to this service.  I understood and looked into these, but commented on 
what I thought vital to my conclusions. 
  
The short lease on Miss G and Mr Ks existing property
In my provisional decision I accepted that, at the initial meeting, Miss G and Mr K did tell 
Stepping Stones that there was a problem with the short lease. They said they took all the 
documents, including deeds, with them. I found it would have been clear that it wasnt a 
straightforward increase in the lease term, but a legal dispute about a previous attempt to 
extend the lease. That wasnt going to be a quick fix. The fact finding document, which Ive quoted above, records that there was an issue with it. So I found that from the outset, 
Stepping Stones knew that there was a significant lease problem. 
I recognised that financial advisers cant advise specifically on the detail of legal issues 
regarding a lease. But I said its reasonable to expect Stepping Stones to know the detail of 
the products they recommend. This re-mortgage was recommended on an advised basis, 
and the product which was recommended would only accept properties with at least 70 
years remaining on the lease. So I found that the re-mortgage product wasnt suitable for 
Miss G and Mr Ks needs. 
I had no evidence about why the valuation report had a figure of 85 years remaining on the 
lease, when in fact it was only 56 years. It could have been an error by Stepping Stones 
when it informed the lender; it could have been an error by the lender when it instructed the 
valuer; or it could have been an error by the valuer. But I considered it unlikely that Miss G 
and Mr K would have had input into that form, so I didnt consider it was their mistake.
So I found that Stepping Stones adviser knew there were problems with the lease, and it 
recommended a re-mortgage which wasnt suitable for a property with under 70 years 
remaining on the lease. So I considered Stepping Stones should refund Miss G and Mr K the 
£295 it charged them for the advice. 
Advice and Stamp duty
What Miss G and Mr K wanted to do when they went to see Stepping Stones was to talk 
about a way of buying the house theyd found and wanted to buy. They had some money 
coming from a property abroad, as well as their existing property which had the problem with 
the lease.
Miss G and Mr K said that Stepping Stones advised them to change their existing residential 
mortgage to a buy-to-let. They said the adviser told them that by doing so, they would avoid 
high stamp duty, because at the end of the transactions theyd only own one property which 
was categorised as residential.
As Ive set out above, in its final response letter, Stepping Stones said that during the initial 
meeting, its adviser phoned a conveyancing firm. They said that that firm told Stepping 
Stones adviser that if Miss G and Mr K only owned one residential home, they wouldnt be 
liable for extra stamp duty. Miss G and Mr K say that no such call happened, because they 
hadnt yet chosen a conveyancer. But in any case, in its final response, Stepping Stones 
said that it had made Miss G and Mr K aware that if they kept both properties on a 
residential basis, there could be more stamp duty costs.
So the evidence indicated that Stepping Stones told Miss G and Mr K that theyd pay less 
stamp duty if their existing property was changed to a buy to let mortgage, instead of having 
both as residential mortgages. At the time, Miss G and Mr K thought this was good advice 
and would save them £4,847. 
But in my provisional decision I explained that this isnt correct, and it makes no difference 
whether one property was on a buy to let mortgage and the other on a residential mortgage, 
or whether they were both on residential mortgages. Stamp duty is chargeable at an extra 
3% on any second property purchase. Thats in addition to whatever the stamp duty rate is 
for the purchase price. Theres a provision that if owners sell the original property within 36 
months of buying the new one, they can get a refund. Thats to help people who want to sell 
the original home but cant do so at the same time as buying their next one.  But it makes no 
difference at all whether the mortgages are buy-to-let or residential. Miss G and Mr K would have had to pay the extra 3% stamp duty on the second purchase anyway, whatever sort of 
mortgages they had on the two properties.
I recognised that Stepping Stones had said it doesnt provide tax advice. And I agreed that I 
wouldnt expect it to provide detailed personal tax planning advice. But knowledge of the 
principles of paying 3% extra stamp duty on the purchase of a second property is basic 
information. Id expect a financial adviser to be aware of this. Instead, Stepping Stones gave 
Miss G and Mr K incorrect advice.
Compensation
When this service considers compensation, we look at it in two parts: compensation for 
financial loss, and compensation for the trouble and upset which consumers have suffered.
Looking first at financial loss:
- For the reasons Ive set out above, I considered that Stepping Stones should 
reimburse the £295 advice fee it charged Miss G and Mr K. It didnt appear that Miss 
G and Mr K did pay the second advice fee, for £195, which Stepping Stones 
requested, so this does not need to be refunded.
- I said I didnt intend to order that Stepping Stones should reimburse the £4,847 
stamp duty which Miss G and Mr K paid, because that stamp duty would always have 
been payable regardless of what type of re-mortgage was taken out on the first 
property.
- Miss G and Mr K had asked for legal fees of £315 to be refunded. I asked them for a 
copy of the invoice, which they supplied. This shows costs of £315 for abortive legal 
costs for the re-mortgage of [property address]. So I accepted that they incurred 
these costs as a result of the unsuitable advice from Stepping Stones. I recognised 
that Stepping Stones then recommended a different mortgage, but I found it was 
understandable that by that stage, Miss G and Mr K no longer wanted to accept a 
Stepping Stones recommendation. And their legal costs for the abortive re-mortgage 
had already been incurred by then anyway. So I found that Stepping Stones should 
refund these legal costs.
Looking at compensation for trouble and upset:
I said it was clear that Miss G and Mr K had a very stressful experience. To some extent, the 
fact they had a short lease on their existing property was always likely to cause problems 
when they wanted to move. And buying and selling property is always stressful. But I 
considered that the stress was significantly worsened by the fact that Stepping Stones 
recommended a mortgage which, after some weeks, proved to be one which couldnt 
possibly proceed because a basic element of it was a 70 year remaining lease, which Miss 
G and Mr K didnt have. Theyd disclosed this from the outset. 
The buy-to-let mortgage was recommended to them on an advised basis, so Stepping 
Stones was responsible for that advice. As a result of the unsuitable advice, there was a 
delay, as a result of which the sellers of the new property told Miss G and Mr K that theyd 
put the property back on the market. I considered that if Stepping Stones had, at the outset, 
recommended a re-mortgage which would have accepted the short lease, this situation 
would have been avoided. The fact that Stepping Stones later suggested a re-mortgage 
which would accept the short lease, proves it would have been possible.And although the higher stamp duty would always have been payable on a second property 
purchase regardless of the type of mortgage, the incorrect information from Stepping Stones 
led to additional disappointment and frustration when Miss G and Mr K found they had to pay 
the extra. If theyd been given the correct information at the start, theyd have had less of a 
shock and would have been able to plan their finances to cope with this.
Miss G explained that theyd be paying for the property for more than 30 years, and it was a 
large sum of money, so they came to professionals for advice. Given everything that 
happened, I could understand why they felt let down and upset. So I considered that £300 
would be fair and reasonable compensation for this.
Finally, Id seen no evidence that Stepping Stones told Miss G and Mr K that, if they sold one 
of their properties within three years of completing on the second one, theyd be entitled to a 
refund of the extra 3% theyd been charged. So I said that Miss G and Mr K should discuss 
that with their financial and legal advisers before that point.
So my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold Miss G and Mr Ks complaint and to 
order Stepping Stones to pay Miss G and Mr K:
- £295 refund of the advice fee they paid;
- £315 refund of their legal fees for the re-mortgage which didnt happen; and 
- £300 compensation for trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice provided 
for the re-mortgage requiring a 70 year remaining lease, plus the inaccurate 
information about stamp duty. 
responses to my provisional decision
Miss G and Mr K accepted the provisional decision.
Stepping Stones didnt accept the provisional decision. It sent a detailed, paragraph by 
paragraph, disagreement with each of the points in the provisional decision. Ive understood 
and looked into this, and the other documents Stepping Stones sent with its objection to the 
provisional decision. But Ive commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the strong objections which Stepping Stones has made, including:
Length of lease
Stepping Stones said that its adviser wasnt aware of the lease term at fact finding stage, 
and didnt look at the lease documents, telling Miss G and Mr K he couldnt advise on that. It 
said that after the meeting, Miss G and Mr K told the adviser that the lease was 114 years, 
and the fact that the lease was only 56 years was only discovered after the mortgage offer.
Stepping Stones also said that its adviser put 114 years as the length of lease on the 
application form it prepared for the mortgage offer. Its said To insinuate that the adviser 
has lied on the application will be a complete mis truth and has serious implications. 
  
The fact-finding document records that Miss G and Mr K were in the process of extending 
the lease. So I consider its unlikely that there was no discussion during the meeting about 
the lease currently being short. And its reasonable to expect a mortgage adviser to ask the clients about the length of the lease, as its an important factor in selecting a mortgage. Miss 
G and Mr K may have said theyd like to extend it to 114 years, but its clear they were 
concerned about it and I accept they raised it. I also accept their evidence that they took 
relevant documents to the meeting, in case they were needed.
In its reply to the provisional decision, Stepping Stones maintained that the clients stated 
they had gained a full lease extension.. The adviser was not aware that the extension had 
not been registered with land registry. In other words, Stepping Stones has said that Miss 
G and Mr K lied about the status of the lease extension, saying they already had the 
extension agreed and sorted. This is a new argument, and its not what Stepping Stones 
said in its final response, where it referred to your concerns around the lease contract. 
But, importantly, the fact finding document, completed by Stepping Stones adviser doesnt 
say Miss G and Mr K said the lease extension had all been sorted out. This document  
records client in the process of extending  - an ongoing process. So I dont accept that 
Miss G and Mr K told Stepping Stones that theyd already got a full lease extension.  
I made no allegation that the adviser lied on the mortgage application form, as Stepping 
Stones claim to believe. It may have been a genuine mistake. Thats indicated by the fact 
that there are different figures  114 years on the mortgage application which Stepping 
Stones adviser submitted, and 85 years on the valuation. But the fact finding document 
completed by Stepping Stones adviser clearly shows that the short lease was raised in the 
meeting. In those circumstances I consider the adviser had a responsibility to find out the 
correct position  for example by asking the clients to check with their solicitor  before 
making a mortgage recommendation. I dont agree with Stepping Stones that its proved that 
the adviser wasnt at fault because neither the surveyor and lender challenged the figure of 
85 years left on the lease.
Stamp duty
In its response to the provisional decision, Stepping Stones said that it hadnt been the 
advisers suggestion, but Miss G and Mr Ks objective, to keep the current property and 
change their existing mortgage into a buy-to-let mortgage. Stepping Stones also said its 
adviser hadnt told Miss G and Mr K that by doing so, theyd save a lot of money in stamp 
duty. Stepping Stones said it wanted this service to provide evidence of what its adviser had 
said.
Its Stepping Stones own final response letter to Miss G and Mr Ks complaint, which says 
that keeping the current property and changing their existing mortgage to a buy-to-let was 
Stepping Stones suggestion. This letter says at fact find stage you made us aware that 
you would like to raise funds to complete home improvements on the new residential 
homeWe made you aware a Let to Buy remortgage would be an option.
Theres a dispute about what was said about stamp duty at the meeting. Miss G and Mr K 
said the adviser told them that if they changed the residential property to a buy-to-let, theyd 
avoid high stamp duty because at the end of the transaction theyd only own one residential 
property.  Stepping Stones, in the final response letter, said during the initial meeting the 
adviser spoke to a conveyancing firm which told the adviser if you only own one residential 
home, you will not be liable for additional stamp duty tax  - in other words, that its adviser 
did say it at the meeting, but as a result of a call during the meeting to a third party. Miss G 
and Mr K have said there wasnt any such call. 
We often have situations where there are disagreements between two parties to a 
complaint, about what happens. When that happens, I take my decision on the basis of what 
I think it more likely to have happened. Here, I consider its most likely that Stepping Stones did tell Miss G and Mr K that theyd avoid higher stamp duty if they changed the residential 
property to a buy-to-let. Thats borne out by the documents. 
In fact it isnt particularly relevant whether or not the adviser rang conveyancers during the 
meeting. Thats because, although mortgage advisers cant provide detailed personal tax 
advice, the stamp duty information is basic and Id expect the adviser to have known the 
correct information. He should have known that without having to refer to any third party. I 
also note that the fact find document says I have explained any tax implications of the new 
mortgage  Yes.
Outcome
Its clear that Stepping Stones feels very strongly about the outcome of this complaint. Its 
said: 
 It is insulting that the clients have fabricated statements to the FCA [sic] for whatever 
reason. The damage their claims have had on the adviser and company are substantial. 
Neither the company nor adviser have ever received any formal complaints in their working 
history. The hours it has taken to respond to the claims from the clients has caused damage 
to a small company and provided a great deal of stress.
With any complaint, there are always two sides to a story. And there is rarely a perfect chain 
of documents proving events. But for the reasons Ive set out in detail above, I consider its 
more likely than not that Miss G and Mr K didnt fabricate statements in their complaint to 
this service. As Ive set out, some of the key evidence is from Stepping Stones own 
documents, including the fact finding document and final response letter. 
I have considered Stepping Stones long and detailed objections carefully. Having done so, I 
consider my original conclusions were fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Miss G and Mr Ks complaint and I order Stepping Stones 
Financial Planning LLP to pay Miss G and Mr K:
- £295 refund of the advice fee they paid;
- £315 refund of their legal fees for the re-mortgage which didnt happen; and 
- £300 compensation for trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice provided 
for the re-mortgage requiring a 70 year remaining lease, plus the inaccurate 
information about stamp duty. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2021. 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman