DRN-3218568
The complaint
Mr M complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) delayed the opening of his sons 
savings account resulting in a loss of interest. 
What happened
Mr M says in late May 2020 he applied to transfer his sons Junior ISA (JISA) from his 
existing provider to NS&I. Mr M says it was important this account mirrored the account 
opening of his daughters JISA and chose NS&I as the account could be opened online, 
avoiding any delays caused by the Covid pandemic. Mr M says he telephoned NS&I on 
separate occasions, as he was concerned about the time the process was taking and was 
reassured interest due on his sons JISA would be backdated to the date of his application. 
Mr M says it took until early August 2020 before the JISA was eventually opened and his son 
lost out on the beneficial interest rate offered by NS&I during that time. Mr M says despite 
NS&I agreeing to back date the interest from the date of application, it has refused to do so. 
Mr M wants NS&I to correctly make up the missing interest on his sons JISA and align it to 
his daughters JISA, so the accounts match identically.
NS&I have accepted Mr M was given incorrect information by its staff, about the backdating 
of interest on his sons JISA and have apologised and paid £50 in compensation. NS&I says 
it wasnt responsible for the delay in receiving funds from Mr Ms other bank and can only 
pay interest from the date the monies were received, and it did that. 
Mr M wasnt happy with NS&Is response and referred the matter to this service alongside an 
identical complaint for his daughter. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and made clear to Mr M each 
complaint he raised would need to be considered separately. But here the investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. The investigator says NS&I couldnt be held responsible for the delay 
in receiving the funds from the other bank, as that was due to postal issues experienced by 
them. The investigator says Mr Ms other bank had paid Mr M compensatory interest for this. 
While the investigator acknowledged that NS&I had given him incorrect information about 
backdating the interest to the application day of the JISA, they had paid him £50 in 
compensation which he felt was fair in the circumstances.  
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding the complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. I should make clear when looking at this complaint I will only be considering the 
issues concerning Mr Ms sons JISA application and not his daughters, as that will be 
considered separately on its own merits.
I can understand it would be upsetting for Mr M to experience the delays he did when 
attempting to open a JISA for his son, given the steps he had taken to ensure this was 
implemented and matched the account of his sons twin sister. When looking at this 
complaint I will consider if NS&I were responsible for the delays in opening the JISA for Mr M 
and if the compensation it awarded him for the misinformation about the backdated interest, 
is sufficient here. 
The first thing to say when coming to a full and impartial decision, is I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike.
Mr Ms complaint centres around the issues he faced when opening his sons JISA and says 
he chose NS&I because it could be opened online and conducted electronically. Mr M says 
he applied for the JISA in late May 2020 but it wasnt until early August 2020 when the funds 
were finally transferred into his sons new JISA with NS&I. Mr M says his mind was put at 
rest during this time, when NS&I staff on separate occasions, reassured him interest would 
be backdated to the date of the JISA application, only to discover later that wasnt the case.
I can understand the points Mr M has made and I can see he did go to some lengths to 
ensure his sons JISA was opened in good time and simultaneously with his daughters. Its 
worth saying here that NS&I have accepted they did give Mr M misleading information about 
interest being backdated to the JISA application date and have paid him £50 for that 
mistake. What is important here is although Mr M applied online for his sons JISA thats not 
to say NS&I could control the method in which his other bank would remit the balance to 
them. 
Here I can see NS&I sent the request to transfer the balance from Mr Ms other bank on 1 
July 2020, which was around nine business days after Mr M says he posted it back to NS&I. 
This would have been just under three weeks from the date NS&I posted the authority form 
to Mr M to sign. While Mr M may not agree, and in normal circumstances the overall time 
taken was perhaps a little longer than we would expect, its fair to say the impact of Covid on 
businesses at that time would have in all likelihood played a part here and the likely cause of 
the inconvenience Mr M experienced. So its important that this is taken into account when 
trying to establish what is fair and reasonable.
From the information I have seen Mr Ms other bank posted the balance of his sons account 
in mid-July 2020 to NS&I, but it wasnt received by NS&I and so it chased the other bank in 
late July 2020. It was subsequently established the other bank had experienced issues with 
its postal provider and the funds were eventually resent and deposited to Mr Ms sons new 
JISA with NS&I on 4 August 2020, the date it was received by them. With that in mind I cant 
say NS&I can be held responsible for the delays in depositing the balance from the other 
bank here.  
I do accept and it has been acknowledged by NS&I its staff had incorrectly informed Mr M 
interest would be backdated to the date of his application. What I would say is its 
unreasonable to expect and outside the terms of the JISA, for NS&I to pay interest before 
the balance of a similar style account was received from the other provider. Its worth saying 
the other bank have paid interest and backdated it for the period between its closure on 15 
July 2020 to the 3 August 2020 when it sent the balance of the account to NS&I, albeit not at 
the interest rate offered by NS&I.
So the issue here is whether or not NS&I fairly compensated Mr M, having admitted they 
gave incorrect information to him. I can see Mr M was inconvenienced and NS&I could have been clearer in those telephone calls about when the interest would start to accrue - 
although Im satisfied Mr M could only reasonably expect this to happen once the deposit 
had been received from the transferring bank for the reasons I gave earlier. With that in 
mind, its not my role to penalise businesses when they make mistakes like this, but to 
ensure an apology is provided and some appropriate level of recompense is given, and I am 
satisfied it has here.
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of NS&I here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman