DRN-3147265
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 3 March 2020, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £8,596 over 48 months; with 47 monthly 
repayments of £183. At the time the car was seven years old and had done more than 
91,000 miles.
Mr A said he had issues with the car from the day he got it. He said the lights failed when he 
was driving it home from the supplying dealer. He returned to the dealer and they replaced 
the bulbs. But on his journey home he discovered the heating wasnt working. 
Since then he said the brakes seized.
He said hes spent a lot of money having repairs done on the car, including replacing the 
heating matrix and the brakes.
He said in October 2020 he discovered that the car had a reconditioned engine and had an 
oil leak that he said would cost several thousand pounds to repair. He said he was told it 
was unsafe to drive.
He asked Moneybarn to take the car back and terminate the agreement. 
Moneybarn said they didnt think the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to him. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. They said the faults 
were as a result of wear and tear. They said they couldnt inspect some of the issues 
because Mr A had arranged for unauthorised repairs. In relation to the engine, they said 
that some second hand cars are supplied with reconditioned or second hand parts and they 
didnt consider this to be a satisfactory quality issue.
Mr A had also complained to them that the car had been in an accident before he obtained it. 
Moneybarn said theyd completed an HPI check and this didnt record any total loss damage. 
They noted that the car may have been in an accident and repaired to a satisfactory 
standard.
Mr A stopped using the car, and in January 2021 he declared this through a SORN. In March 
2021 Mr A asked to voluntary terminate the agreement. This was done, and at the time the 
car was returned to Moneybarn it had done 104,290 miles.
Mr A wasnt happy with Moneybarns response to his complaint, so he brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator was satisfied the car Moneybarn provided to Mr A was of a satisfactory 
quality. He acknowledged that the car had faults, but found the faults were what you would 
expect to see across the lifetime of a vehicle.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. Hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale.
Mr A complained of ongoing issues with the car, and I note that he had to take it back to the 
dealership on the day he collected it, because the lights failed. The dealer fixed the lights 
and it appears that the repair worked, as Mr A hasnt raised this matter again
Mr A complained about a number of issues with the car, including the heater matrix, the 
brakes, and a reconditioned engine. 
I can see that Mr A is unhappy that he had to pay for new brakes. He feels that the problems 
with the brakes meant the car should not have passed the MOT. Both Moneybarn and our 
investigator explained to Mr A why we cant challenge the veracity of an MOT. But I can see 
that the MOT completed at the time he acquired the car noted that the front brake pads were 
wearing thin. 
Mr A had the brakes checked in September 2020. In that time hed done more than 8,500 
miles  so its reasonable to expect the brakes to have suffered from additional wear and 
tear and require replacing. But this doesnt mean they were faulty at the time of supply.
Mr As had to pay for the heater matrix to be replaced. Moneybarn and our investigator both 
explained why this issue also falls into the category of wear and tear. The invoice shows the 
heater matrix was replaced in September 2020, when the car had covered 100,000 miles. 
Whilst its a part that may last longer than seven years, its a part that requires maintenance, 
so it can fail at this time and with this amount of mileage/usage. So I cant say that it was 
faulty at the time of sale, and Im satisfied that it required replacement due to wear and tear.
I can understand Mr As surprise when he discovered the car didnt have the original engine. 
But the fact that it had a reconditioned engine doesnt mean it wasnt of a satisfactory quality. 
Im aware that Mr A covered more than 13,000 miles in the car. This wouldnt have been 
possible if the engine had been faulty when the car was supplied to him.Mr A has also reported other issues, including the oil leak and the accident damage. Having 
reviewed the available evidence and thinking about the type of issues, Im not persuaded 
that the faults were present at the point of supply, or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, but I wont be asking 
Moneybarn to do anything further.
I note that Mr A has now returned the car to Moneybarn and voluntary terminated the 
agreement. The agreement he entered into had a termination clause that set out his right to 
terminate. This is a right granted under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, and allows him to 
return the car if hes paid at least 50% of the total amount payable. The agreement confirms 
this amount was £4,298. Moneybarn have notified Mr A that he owes £2,103 to bring the 
account up to 50% of the total amount payable. I think this is reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman