DRN-4145553
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain about the level of service received from Inter Partner Assistance 
SA (IPA) following reporting a home emergency claim. 
Reference to IPA include their agents. 
What happened
Mrs D and Mr D reported a burst pipe under flooring to IPA in October 2022 which disabled 
the central heating system. They say IPA took far too long to attend, and when they did, their 
engineer wasnt helpful in locating the source of the emergency. They say the engineer 
advised major trace and access works were required, and Mrs D and Mr D should contact 
their home insurer. And once the source of the emergency was able to be accessed, they 
could reattend to carry out repairs. Mrs D and Mr D say the engineer completed a report but 
failed to send this to their home insurer. And this only came to light much later on. 
Mrs D and Mr D contacted a family member and local plumber after being informed by their 
home insurer the trace and access section of the policy wouldnt engage. Repairs were 
completed to the pipework, and their property was restored some weeks later. They say they 
were without heating for several days during a cold spell. They complained to IPA due to the 
way things were handled, their lack of support with the claim, and failing to provide their 
home insurer with a copy of the engineers report. 
IPA responded to the complaint to say trace and access isnt covered by the home 
emergency section of the policy, and this was required given the engineer reported there 
was no immediate signs of the source of the emergency during their visit. So, there was very 
little their engineer could do to help. They accept things could have been handled much 
better  such as the length of time taken for an engineer to attend, and the overall 
communication. As such, they paid Mrs D and Mr D £125 compensation. Mrs D and Mr D 
remained unhappy and asked our Service for an impartial review. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said the home emergency 
section of the policy doesnt cover trace and access, and Mrs D and Mr D didnt have 
invoices for the works done to repair the pipework in order to recommend IPA reimburses 
these costs under the policy. He said it would have been helpful for IPA to provide Mrs D 
and Mr D with their engineers report much sooner, but felt they acknowledged the service 
failings fairly by paying Mrs D and Mr D compensation. Mrs D and Mr D remained unhappy, 
so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision, Ive only considered Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint in respect of IPA and the 
level of service provided under the home emergency section of the policy. Theyve also 
raised a complaint about their home insurer which will be considered separately. This is 
because the home emergency and home insurance sections of their policy is underwritten by 
two separate entities. 
The home emergency section of the policy is designed to cover emergency repairs in the 
event of an insured peril  such as a water leak from the boiler / heating system. However, 
under the general exclusions, it states the costs of trace and access to locate the source of 
the emergency isnt covered. 
When IPAs engineer attended Mrs D and Mr Ds property, they reported: 
there is no signs on inspection of property that water is under floor but there is a leak, this is 
not first time this has happened and is also happened to neighbours and other properties in 
area. A thermal camera I believe would not help in this case as because pipework is leaking 
you would be unable to get water hot, customer believes he has a plan of were pipework in 
floor may go, he going to email office with this information
Customer has 2 emersion heaters on hot water cylinder to which I have turned on today so 
customer has hot water but no heating till issue is resolved. Works need to go to buildings 
contents side of insurance as major Trace and access is needed In floor. 
Its clear, based on this visit, the engineer was unable to complete a temporary, emergency 
repair, given trace and access works were required. As mentioned above, the home 
emergency section of the policy doesnt cover that. So, I find IPA acted reasonably when 
attending to inspect the potential claim and directing Mrs D and Mr D to their home insurer. 
The claim notes suggest IPA offered to send another engineer once access had been made 
to the pipework which I think was the right thing to do. 
I note Mrs D and Mr D had help from a family member and a local plumber to access the 
pipework and undertake the necessary repairs. I note Mr D says they didnt accept any 
payment, but the family member had to travel to his property and work two full days to help 
him with accessing the source of damage, which was then repaired by the local plumber. Id 
expect IPA to reimburse any costs Mrs D and Mr D incurred (upon proof of an itemised 
invoice as set out within the policy terms) for any costs that would have been covered by the 
home emergency section of the policy. I wouldnt expect them to cover Mrs D and Mr Ds 
family members travel expenses, however. Mrs D and Mr D havent provided an invoice, so I 
wont be requiring IPA to reimburse any costs to them under the policy in my decision. 
I note Mrs D and Mr Ds expectations following this visit was for IPA to share the report with 
their home insurer, but this didnt happen. I think it would have been good customer service 
for IPA to share their engineers findings with Mrs D and Mr D much sooner. But I also note 
Mr D says the engineer told him trace and access was required during the 31 October 2022 
visit, so I dont think IPAs failure to share this report with Mrs D and Mr D sooner made a 
material difference here. I say this because they were already aware, following IPAs visit, 
that trace and access works were required as the next steps. Overall, I do think things could have been handled much better here, and with a higher level 
of customer service. IPA accept their engineer failed to attend Mrs D and Mr Ds property 
within a reasonable timeframe, and there were some communication issues too. All things 
considered  Im satisfied IPA took reasonable steps to acknowledge and put right the 
service issues Mrs D and Mr D faced. As such, I find £125 compensation to be fair, 
reasonable, and proportionate here in respect of Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint regarding 
IPAs actions under the home emergency section of the policy. It follows I dont require IPA 
to take further action. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs D and Mr D. But it ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve their dispute with IPA  can do for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman