DRN-4185850
The complaint
Mrs G complains One Insurance Limited unfairly declined to settle her claim on her motor 
insurance policy after her car was stolen.
What happened
Mrs Gs home was broken in to and her car keys were stolen. Her car was then stolen from 
the driveway of her home address.
Mrs G reported the incident to the police and the next day she made a claim on the motor 
insurance policy that she held with One Insurance.
One Insurance declined to settle her claim. It said as her car was parked on the drive of her 
home the theft was not covered. It said this was due to the garaging overnight endorsement 
within her policy that excludes loss or damage to her vehicle between the hours of 10.00pm 
and 6.00am, unless the vehicle was kept in a locked garage at this time.
 
As Mrs G was not happy with One Insurance, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said the policy 
clearly states there is an exclusion for loss or damage if the car is not in a locked garage 
between 10.00pm and 6.00am. They said One Insurance acted in line with the policy and 
Mrs G shouldve been reasonably aware of the restriction.
As Mrs G is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I saw Mrs G initially took out a motor insurance policy with One Insurance in April 2018. In 
March 2022 Mrs G changed car and contacted One Insurance to inform it of the change. Her 
policy was updated with the new car details. 
When Mrs G changed her car and updated her motor insurance policy she was asked
Please confirm that the below assumptions are correct:
Your vehicle will be kept in the same place overnight.
Mrs G responded that this was correct.
I looked at the policy schedules that were issued to Mrs G and saw from its inception in 
April 2018 an overnight garaging endorsement applied.
I saw on the policy schedules issued from 2018 it says; 
Endorsements applying  Overnight garaging warranty applies.
It further explains as follows
GOl - Garaging Overnight
Your insurance policy excludes cover for loss or damage to your vehicle between the hours 
of 22:00 (10pm) and 06:00 (6am) whilst your car is being kept at, or within 1/2 mile of, the 
garaging address (or address advised on your insurance policy), unless it is kept in a locked 
garage at the time of the loss or damage.
This confirms as the car was not garaged overnight, when the theft occurred it was not 
covered by the terms and conditions of her policy.
Mrs G said there were mitigating circumstances why her car was not garaged overnight. She 
said this was due to the need to have access to the car in a rush in case of needing to get to 
a family member who was ill. She also said she was at risk of redundancy and her attention 
to detail was not as it should have been.
I have considered this and although I understand Mrs G has also had a number of personal 
issues to deal with in the months leading up to the theft of her car, it is still the onus of 
herself as the policy holder to ensure the accuracy of the policy details. And as she said her 
car is kept in a garage overnight it means the endorsement is applicable.
I accept it was never Mrs Gs intention to act improperly but it was clear in the details 
supplied regarding her policy that for the cover to apply the car must be garaged between 
the hours of 10.00pm and 6.00am. I checked to see if the overnight garaging endorsement 
was new endorsement which could have been missed. I found it had been in place since the 
inception of her policy with One Insurance in 2018 and was detailed at all renewals and 
when the change to her car was made.
I have not seen that there was a short-term unavoidable event why the car couldnt be 
garaged. Mrs G confirmed she had been parking on her drive over night for a few months 
prior to its theft so it was not a one-off unavoidable event. 
I think Mrs G had enough opportunity when her personal circumstances changed to update 
One Insurance that she was not parking her car in the garage. It could have had the 
considered this change to her details and amend her cover to accommodate this. It is not 
possible to make a claim and then change the details on where the vehicle is kept overnight 
so that cover was in place.
 
Mrs G has also said the cost of her policy premiums would have been cheaper if she had 
said the car was parked on the drive so there was no financial gain for her to say it was 
garaged overnight. She feels this is an unfair term in her policy.
When calculating what premium to charge individual policyholders, insurers will take 
numerous different factors into account. And providing they treat people fairly, insurers and 
brokers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. And 
One Insurance provided me with commercially sensitive evidence which confirmed parking a 
car in a garage would provide a cheaper quotation than being parked on a drive.
Although I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs G and she has suffered a large 
financial loss, I cannot fairly tell One Insurance to settle her claim. 
Therefore I do not uphold her complaint and I do not require One Insurance to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman