DRN-3296939
The complaint
Mr A is represented. His representative says Medical Money Management (MMM) gave him 
unsuitable advice to undertake a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) 
plan in 1994. They say this was unsuitable advice mainly because: 
It mismatched his personal and professional profile.
No comparison with, and consideration of, the available in-house AVC option at the 
time took place  given the cheaper/subsidised charges in an in-house AVC, the 
FSAVC recommendation cannot be justified.
There was also no justification in recommending the FSAVC over the other 
alternative of purchasing added years in his occupational pension, which offered long 
term guaranteed benefits.
The unsuitable recommendation in 1994 was compounded by further unsuitable 
advice, in 1997, to top-up the FSAVC plan. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He mainly said:
Due to the passage of time, the availability of documents related to the 
recommendation is limited. There is no fact find from 1994, but there is such a 
document from 1996 (for Mr As financial review at the time). The 1996 document is 
reliable evidence of his profile in 1994 because that profile is unlikely to have 
changed radically in the two years up to 1996. The document says he was in his late 
20s/early 30s, was single without dependents, was in a professional occupation (with 
an occupational pension), had a mortgage linked pension and had a 
cautious/balanced risk profile.
MMMs 1994 recommendation did draw a comparison between the FSAVC and the 
added years alternative, but it made no mention of the in-house AVC alternative. 
Under the regulations at the time it ought to have addressed the in-house AVC option 
in its advice to Mr A.
MMM said control over contributions in an FSAVC was preferred to the fixed 
percentage (of increasing income) contributions in an added years arrangement. 
However, there is no evidence that the latter would have been unaffordable for Mr A 
in his particular career (and given his age and risk profile).
A comparison between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC alternative would have 
highlighted the difference in cost between them, with the latter being cheaper, and 
unless it was demonstrated that the benefits of the former outweighed its higher 
charges it is unlikely to have been a suitable recommendation. 
For the above reasons, it can be said that Mr A would not have been fully aware of 
his options at the time of the recommendation. His complaint should be upheld and 
MMM should undertake a calculation of redress for him based on the regulators 
FSAVC review methodology on an added years basis.
MMM disputes this outcome. It says there is evidence of a full comparison with the added 
years option within the 1994 recommendation; that this option would not have been viable; 
that Mr A planned to retire at age 65 and by the time he reached age 64 he would have 
exhausted maximum service under his occupational pension scheme; so there would have 
been no scope for added years and the scheme would likely have rejected his application for 
added years for these reasons. For the same reasons, MMM also objects to the 
investigators proposed basis for redress.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MMM will be aware of the basis on which the investigator treated the comparisons that 
should have been conducted, in 1994, between the FSAVC it recommended to Mr A and the 
alternatives of an in-house AVC and the purchase of added years. Though documentation 
from 1994 is limited, its recommendation letter to him in October that year is available and it 
is clear from it that his objective was to enhance his pension arrangement. That was a 
reasonable objective and it was equally reasonable for MMM to meet that with its 
recommendation. However, its recommendation had to be suitable for Mr A (for his objective 
and circumstances), in comparison with relevant alternatives, and it ought to have given him 
enough information (including information about such alternatives) to aid his decision 
making. It is in this context that the in-house AVC and the purchase of added years have 
been  and must be  considered in this case.
As MMM has stressed, the option of purchasing added years was indeed addressed in its 
recommendation. I consider this further below. First, like the investigator noted and as Mr As 
representative has argued, I find that there was a significant failure on MMMs part in its 
omission of advice on the in-house AVC alternative. Given that it looked into the FSAVC 
plan, consideration of the in-house version ought reasonably to have been the automatic 
and/or logical next step. MMM should have advised upon and enquired into this. In-house 
AVC plans were broadly better options for occupational pension holders  better than 
FSAVCs  mainly because of their lower/subsidised charges and the potential for the 
employer to match the contributions paid by the employee (which was not the case for 
FSAVCs). Between 1988 and 2006 occupational pension schemes had to offer an in-house 
AVC plan, so in 1994 Mr As employer would have been no different in this respect.
On a like for like basis  and in the context that additional contributions were suitable for his 
circumstances (which is not in dispute) and that he was unlikely to be an early leaver (which 
appears to have been the case, given his particular profession/career path)  the added 
benefits of lower charges and potential employer contributions would have meant that an in-
house AVC was suitable for Mr A over the FSAVC that was recommended to him. As the 
investigator addressed, in the absence of evidence that the FSAVC offered something to 
outweigh such added benefits it cannot reasonably be said that it was a suitable 
recommendation.
MMM did not commit the same significant failure (by omission) with regards to the option of 
purchasing added years. It identified and treated this within its recommendation to Mr A. 
However, it did not do that enough and to the extent that it should have  that extent being, 
on balance, a recommendation to pursue/explore this option primarily above others. To set further context, MMM would have known that the two AVC options led to pension fund 
values, at retirement, that depended on investment performance (amongst other factors); 
that the purchase of added years provided a more certain outcome for Mr A, who was in a 
defined benefits pension scheme; that it offered a boost to the number of years he 
accumulated under the scheme; and therefore a boost to the relatively secured benefits he 
would draw from it at retirement. This was viable for Mr A. I will not set out the specific 
personal and professional circumstances he had in 1994, in order to avoid breaching his 
anonymity. It is sufficient to say those circumstances lent themselves to the purchase of 
added years being the suitable option for him. 
MMMs advice at the time does not quite match the thrust of its argument in response to the 
investigators view. It presently says the purchase of added years was essentially a 
redundant option because there would have been no scope for it  as Mr A already stood to 
exhaust his maximum service under the scheme through his prospective full period of 
employment up to retirement. The 1994 recommendation did not say this. It mentioned the 
potential for this, but clearly no enquiries had been made to determine the relevant facts 
under the scheme and to determine whether (or not) there was scope for the purchase of 
added years  hence the reason why the adviser went to the extent of providing an 
illustration of a three added years purchase (which would have been unnecessary if it had 
been established that there was no scope for any such purchase). 
Instead, and overall, the documents contents suggest the adviser had pre-determined a 
preference for the FSAVC plan as the option for Mr A. This was presented on the grounds of 
flexibility of contributions and potential overall costs  based on assumptions. I am not 
persuaded that this was done in a balanced way. Mr A held a cautious/balanced risk profile. 
The relative certainty and security of the benefits from a viable added years plan would have 
matched this profile, and this is a quality that neither AVC related option had. Given his risk 
(and overall) profile it is more likely, than not, that the plan would have remained a suitable 
match for him even if it cost slightly more than an uncertain alternative.
Presently available evidence, about the scheme, suggests that the maximum service length 
that would have been relevant to Mr A at the time is five years more than MMM has argued  
so the notion, at the time, of a three added years purchase (suggested from the advisers 
illustration) appears to have been viable. It is also important that there is no evidence from 
1994 that enquiries were made in this respect and that the accurate maximum service length 
in the scheme was established. On balance, in the absence of such evidence and given the 
information presently available, I do not consider it safe to accept that there was no scope 
for purchasing added years and that this option was redundant in 1994.
Overall and on balance, MMM should have recommended to Mr A the purchase of added 
years, instead of the FSAVC plan that it sold to him  furthermore, the alternative of an in-
house AVC plan also made the FSAVC recommendation unsuitable. Mr A was therefore 
given unsuitable advice by MMM in 1994 and redress for this must be considered and 
calculated.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for MMM to put Mr A, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice it gave him in 1994. MMM must 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators FSAVC review methodology on an 
added years basis. This involves using, in part, the Pension Review methodology as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefits pension transfers.This calculation should be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mr As acceptance of the decision. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension is not possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement. Making a 
notional deduction overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr A 
within 90 days of the date MMM receives notification of his acceptance of this decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of this decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 
days, that it takes MMM to pay Mr A this compensation. 
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mr As case, the complaint event occurred after 1 April 2019 (it happened in 1994) and the 
complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2020 (it was referred to us in 2021), so the 
applicable compensation limit would be £160,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr As complaint and I order Medical Money 
Management to calculate and pay him redress as I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman