DRN-2439447
The complaint
Mr S complains about QIC Europe Ltds decision to void his home insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr S had a home insurance policy with QIC which covered his former home.
When he moved house, he contacted QICs agents to cancel that policy and set up a new 
one for his new home.
QIC told Mr S they couldnt provide cover for homes with more then five bedrooms. Mr S had 
told them his new home had six. He then pointed out that two of those six rooms were in fact 
craft rooms, but the call ended without a policy being bought.
Mr S then bought a policy using a comparison website. He took the most cost effective quote 
and says he didnt realise at the time that the policy was again underwritten by QIC.
Several months later, Mr S contacted QICs agents to check that the refund on his previous 
policy had been paid. It had, but the contact caused QIC to notice that Mr S had bought a 
policy for a five-bedroom house when hed told them previously it had six bedrooms. 
After reviewing the matter, QIC voided the policy and refunded Mr S the premiums hed paid. 
They said Mr S had carelessly misrepresented the facts when he bought the policy.
Mr S complained to QIC. And when they maintained their position, he brought his complaint 
to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think QIC had done anything wrong. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision form an ombudsman. He thinks hes been put 
at risk for five months because he didnt have valid insurance  and any claim would have 
been declined. 
And he thinks thats QICs fault because they asked ambiguous questions and didnt have 
processes to check the validity and accuracy of the information he provided in his 
application. He wants them to compensate him for the time he spent exposed to the 
unnecessary risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision, I have to take into account the relevant legislation  in particular, the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
CIDRA says that if a consumer provides inaccurate information when buying or renewing a 
policy, the insurer will be able to take certain actions if that misrepresentation was either: 
(a) deliberate or reckless; or (b) careless.
If the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, the insurer can void the policy and 
refuse all claims and need not return the premiums, unless it would be unfair to the 
consumer to retain them.
If the misrepresentation was careless, the insurer can do the following: 
If they wouldnt have provided the insurance on any terms, they may void the policy 
and refuse all claims, but they must return the premiums. If the insurer would still 
have provided the insurance but on different terms (other than terms relating to the 
premium) the policy is to be treated as if it had been provided on those terms if the 
insurer so requires; and
If the insurer would still have provided the insurance but charged a higher premium, 
they may reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim where the 
misrepresentation was discovered as a result of a claim.
QIC say Mr S made a careless  not deliberate  misrepresentation when he bought his 
policy. He said his house had five bedrooms when in fact it had six. 
So, in line with the provisions of CIDRA, theyve voided the policy and returned the 
premiums. Theyve demonstrated that their underwriting criteria mean that they dont provide 
cover for homes with more than five bedrooms. 
Theyve also made it clear to Mr S that this hasnt been placed on record and he need not 
tell potential future insurers that hes had a policy cancelled.
In my view, the issue about whether two rooms were bedrooms or craft rooms is a complete 
red herring in this case. 
Its been discussed extensively, and Mr S clearly feels very strongly about it. But if that had 
played any part in Mr Ss thinking when he made the on-line application, he wouldnt have 
said the house had five bedrooms. He wouldve said it had four  or bearing in mind what Im 
about to explain, he wouldve said three.
Mr S says he said the house had five bedrooms because hed had a builder quote for work 
to knock two of the bedrooms into one. This work was in fact carried out, according to Mr S, 
several months after he bought the policy.
Ill come to the wider implications of what Mr S says about his thinking at the time in a 
moment. For now, Id just say that if Mr S declared five bedrooms, effectively because it was 
six but soon would be five, then hes already clearly taking the point that the craft rooms 
might be regarded as bedrooms by the insurer. Hes subtracting one from six, not from four. 
So, as I say, the craft rooms / bedrooms issue is a red herring.
Turning now to the wider point, I think its worth me quoting Mr S, in his own words, from an 
email he sent to our investigator after shed given her view on the case. This makes his 
thinking when he completed the application very clear.
He told us:Thinking ahead and realising that six bedrooms might be a sticking point, I said five 
because this is what we had planned
He goes on to say:
Insurance is for the coming year ahead, I was simply anticipating this The merger 
(of the two bedrooms) would have been in place for more than 50% of the insurance 
period 
I think this shows Mr S had in mind the issue about how many bedrooms there were  and 
what this might mean for his insurance  when he bought the policy. 
He said there were five bedrooms on the comparison website, confirmed it on QICs website 
(which asks how many other rooms there are in the house too) and then saw that hed 
declared five bedrooms in the policy documents QIC sent to him  which asked him to check 
the accuracy of the information hed provided.
I also think Mr S was nave  to the point of being careless in not checking his understanding 
by calling QIC (contact numbers were in the documents he was sent)  if he thought he 
could insure a six bedroom (or six bedroom plus other room house) as a five bedroom one 
on the basis he had plans to convert two bedrooms into one almost half-way through the 
period on cover.
To be very specific, Mr S was asked  as part of the application process  how many rooms 
his house had at the time. He wasnt asked how many it might have at some point in future. 
The answer he gave was inaccurate, as a matter of fact. 
Its not unreasonable for QIC to regard that as careless, given that the only explanation for 
Mr Ss mistake (other than that it was a deliberate falsehood) is that he hadnt read the 
question properly.
I dont think QIC have done anything unfair or unreasonable in the way theyve dealt with 
Mr S. Even if I did, I cant see what actual loss Mr S has suffered. He has his premiums 
back. He didnt have a claim declined. He didnt suffer stress during the period he may not 
have been covered because he didnt know he wasnt covered. Once he did know that, he 
already knew he hadnt had to make a claim.
Mr S has raised several points in his complaint to us about the way the insurance industry as 
a whole operates. He thinks QIC  and other insurers  should have a process to check the 
accuracy of the information provided to them by potential customers. Otherwise, those who 
unwittingly provide inaccurate information might find themselves not covered when they 
make a claim.
Our investigator has been clear with Mr S about the role of our organisation. We're an 
informal dispute resolution service which allows customers to raise complaints about 
financial businesses without the expense of going through the courts. 
So, our focus is always on whether a business has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way 
they treated the individual customer making the complaint. As part of that, we look primarily 
at the impact or effect the business' actions have had on that individual customer.
I can appreciate Mr S's wider concern, but our focus has to be on what effect QICs actions 
had on him specifically. If he remains concerned about the effect QICs (and/or other 
insurers) processes or procedures have on others more broadly he is entitled to make a complaint to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which is the regulator for financial 
businesses.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman