DRN-3127579
The complaint
Mr P complains that Great Lakes Reinsurance (UK) SE (Great Lakes) unfairly declined a 
claim he made on his furniture protection policy.
Reference to Great Lakes also includes other firms acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr P purchased a leather sofa from a furniture retailer towards the end of 2016. He also 
bought a five-year leather care plan cover alongside it. The policy, provided by Great Lakes, 
covered him for staining and accidental damage. 
In August 2020, Mr P submitted a claim for accidental damage as the surface of one of the 
sofa seats had started breaking up. The attending technicians report concluded that the top 
coating had come off the leather and this was a manufacturing fault. He recoloured the 
damaged section but had to come out again as hed used an incorrect colour dye during his 
initial visit.
In July 2021, Mr P submitted another claim for accidental damage and said that the previous 
repair had failed. The attending technician concluded that the area where the leather had 
started peeling off was contaminated with bodily fluids. Great Lakes declined Mr Ps claim on 
the grounds that this wasnt a specific accidental event as defined in his policy.
Mr P complained to Great Lakes, but it maintained its decision. Unhappy with this, he 
referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator concluded that Great Lakes was 
entitled to rely on the inspection report it was provided, and in doing so had fairly declined 
the claim.  
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators findings. He disputed that the technician carried out 
a brown paper test to check for grease and said that the retailer he bought the sofa from 
confirmed the damage was likely accidental. Mr P also provided an extract of a policy 
document and an in-store sales brochure which he said showed that damage caused by 
bodily fluids was covered, as was peeling leather. 
The investigator forwarded this information to Great Lakes and it said that although it 
couldnt confirm where the policy document came from, it wasnt the correct wording for 
Mr Ps policy. Great Lakes said the document included cover for perils that werent offered 
on policies it provided for the retailer from whom Mr P bought his sofa. It also said the 
retailers logo or sales number was missing from the policy document.
The investigator asked Mr P for the full policy document. He also asked if the retailer had 
confirmed in writing that the damage was accidental. In relation to the brown paper test, the 
investigator said he placed more weight on the technicians report and so he was satisfied 
the test was conducted.
Mr P provided a full copy of the policy document hed referred to and said that the retailer 
didnt confirm its opinion in writing.
The matter has since been escalated to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr P and Great Lakes that although Ive only summarised the 
background above, so not everything that happened or has been argued is mentioned, Ive 
read and considered everything thats been submitted to this service in its entirety. 
The starting point for any complaint about a claim is the contract of insurance between the 
parties  the policy. It sets out the terms and conditions, what cover is provided, definitions 
and any exclusions that apply.
The policy document Mr P has provided is different to the one Great Lakes shared in its 
submission. So, Ive first checked which policy applies here.
Ive looked at both documents in conjunction with the retailers in-store brochure and Im 
satisfied that the policy applicable to Mr Ps claim is the one provided by Great Lakes. In 
addition to including the retailers logo, this document also refers to the policy as a 5 year 
leather cover which matches the description in the retailers brochure. 
On the other hand, the document that Mr Ps provided doesnt include a period of coverage 
and refers to the policy as PremierCare Insurance. I acknowledge that this document sets 
out the terms for a policy that is also provided by Great Lakes. But it includes cover for 
structural defects which isnt included in policy Mr P purchased. This is made clear in the 
retailers in-store brochure which also states that structural damage is covered under the 
retailers 15-year guarantee.
Having established the correct policy applicable to Mr Ps claim, Ive gone on to consider 
whether the damage hes claimed for is covered by it. 
The policy provides cover for staining and accidental damage. Having reviewed the available 
information, Im satisfied that the damage wasnt caused by staining. 
Accidental damage is described in the policy as a sudden and accidental event resulting in a 
rip, tear, burn, scratch, puncture or scuff. Ive reviewed the photographs taken at the time of 
the inspection and I agree with the technicians description of the damage, namely peeling of 
leather. Considering the above, I cant say that the damage Mr Ps claimed for has been 
caused by any of the specific listed reasons.
Mr P argues that the surface of the sofa seat is scratched. But neither technicians reports  
from the 2020 claim as well as the 2021 claim  stated that the surface was scratched. And, 
without comparable expert evidence from Mr P, Im more persuaded by the findings in these 
reports. And the most recent report describes the damage as peeling of leather, most likely 
due to external contamination of bodily fluids.
Mr P disputes that the technician carried out a test for grease. He argues that the retailers 
brochure states cover is provided for damage caused by bodily fluids. So, his claim should 
be covered in any event.
I appreciate Mr P feels strongly that the technician didnt carry out a paper test. But as the 
investigator explained, weve received photographic evidence of the test being conducted. As an evidence-based service, I must follow the evidence before me. Im more persuaded by 
the technicians report which concludes that a test was carried out and this showed evidence 
of grease. 
Ive also reviewed the retailers brochure. Under the heading, Accidental stains resulting 
from amongst other things it states, Human and animal bodily fluids such as blood or 
vomit. I appreciate Mr P believes this also covers his situation. But thats not quite right. 
Bodily fluids is mentioned under stains, i.e. description of what is covered under the staining 
section of the policy. I dont consider a build-up of body oils to be sudden or akin to blood or 
vomit which are likely to be sudden and leave a stain.    
In summary, Im not persuaded that the type of issue Mr Ps claimed for is covered under his 
policy. This means his claim isnt payable.
I appreciate that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr P. And I do 
acknowledge the strength of his feelings on the matter. But after considering the information 
available to me, I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman