DRN-4341892
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money 
once hed reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr H was told by a relative that hed made money from an investment opportunity with a 
company Ill refer to as B. Before going ahead with the investment, Mr H checked Bs 
website, which looked professional featured an about us section and positive reviews. The 
relative sent Mr H a link which he followed to create an account. He also joined a WhatsApp 
going for Bs investors. 
Mr H was told to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company 
and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet. He was told that if he invested 
£5,000, he would make 5% commission a day, and the more he invested, the more profit 
hed make.
He already had an account with a cryptocurrency exchange company and on 18 April 2022, 
he moved £9,000 from there to the wallet address he was given. Then between 21 February 
2022 and 18 May 2022, he made 15 payments to a cryptocurrency exchange totalling 
£17,215. 
After six weeks, he decided to make a withdrawal and was told it would take 72 hours. But 
when he didnt receive the funds, he contacted the WhatsApp group and was told others had 
similar experiences, at which point he realised hed been scammed. He contacted 
Nationwide who said that because the funds had been sent to an account in his own name, 
there was nothing it could do to assist him. 
Mr H complained to Nationwide with the assistance of a representative. The representative 
said Nationwide had failed to intervene and provide an effective warning, arguing the first 
transaction was of substantial value to a new cryptocurrency-related payee, which was 
unusual when compared to the normal spending on the account. They said this should have 
raised concerns and it should have contacted Mr H to ask questions around the purpose of 
the payment, whether hed done any research, whether hed checked the FCA register and 
whether hed received any withdrawals. And with that information, it should have identified 
that Mr H was likely falling victim to an elaborate investment scam.
They said Mr H wasnt coached to give false answers, so its likely hed have fully explained 
what he was doing and that everything had originated from a broker. And even though he 
was sending money to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, it should have still provided a 
scam warning in light of all the information known to banks about the increasing number of 
scams associated with cryptocurrency.
Nationwide pointed out Mr H had made a total of 15 payments to another cryptocurrency 
exchange, totalling £15,265.00 from 27th September 2021 to 19th February 2022. And the 
returns Mr H was promised should have raised concerns as should the fact the broker wasnt 
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It also said it wasnt reasonable to act 
on advice from a relative.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said that even though hed 
invested before, he wasnt experienced and had acted in good faith on the information he 
was given. He didnt feel under pressure, so felt he was acting independently. And he did 
research B before deciding to go ahead but didnt find any negative reviews. He believes if 
Nationwide had contacted him and asked some basic questions, it would have realised it 
was a scam and provided a scam warning.
He said the previous payments to cryptocurrency merchants wasnt for cryptocurrency and 
the payment of £9,000 was unusual as he hadnt made any payments of that value before, 
so Nationwide should have intervened at that point.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained the CRM code 
didnt apply to the payments because they were to an account in Mr Hs own name. And she 
didnt think the payments were particularly suspicious when compared to Mr Hs normal 
account activity, explaining hed made previous payments for £5000 and £3000, including 
multiple large payments to a cryptocurrency exchange, so she didnt think the disputed 
transactions were so unusual that Nationwide ought to have intervened. And there were no 
warnings about the payee, so it didnt ned to flag the payments. She was also satisfied 
Nationwide did what it could to recover the money, but when it contacted the receiving bank, 
there were no funds remaining.
Mr H has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by the Ombudsman, arguing £9,000 was 
unusual because the highest previous expenditure was £5,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr H has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr H says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. Nationwide said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the payments were to an account in Mr Hs own name, and Im satisfied thats 
fair.
Im also satisfied Mr H authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mr H didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. Nationwide is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Nationwide could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Nationwide had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part 
of a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr H 
when he tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an 
account, Id expect Nationwide to intervene with a view to protecting Mr H from financial 
harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Nationwides systems. Ive considered the nature 
of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr H 
normally ran his account, and I dont think they were. Ive considered the account statement 
for the months prior to the payments, and I note between 27 September 2021 and 19 
February 2022 there were 17 payments to a cryptocurrency exchange company, so it wasnt 
unusual for Mr H to pay money to a cryptocurrency exchange. 
And there were payments for £5,000 on 22 June 2021 and £3,000 on 8 November 2021, so 
even though £9,000 was more than hed previously spent, I dont think the difference was 
great enough for the payments to be deemed unusual considering hed already used the 
account for large payments to cryptocurrency exchange companies. So, I dont think 
Nationwide missed an opportunity to intervene.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think Nationwide is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman