DRN-2323766
The complaint
Mr B complains that Brighton Williams & Partners (BWP) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his personal pension into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and to invest in a 
Canadian property development. 
Mr B is represented in bringing this complaint. But, all comments and actions should be read 
as being from Mr B.
What happened
At Mr Bs apparent instigation, BWP met with him in August 2011.  BWP recorded that Mr B 
came to the meeting with the intention of discussing how he could use his pension to invest 
in a property development in Canada. It seems Mr B heard about the development through a 
personal friend, who was a regional sales manager for a company involved in the 
development. Mr B disputes that he approached BWP. He says hed known BWPs adviser 
for many years (including when he worked for another company), as hed been instrumental 
in setting up and overseeing Mr Bs existing pension arrangements. Mr B maintains that hed 
always followed that advisers recommendations. 
BWP noted that Mr B had two existing pensions  a personal pension with a provider Ill refer 
to as A and a SIPP with a different provider, J. Neither of these providers allowed an 
investment in the development in Canada. So, if Mr B were to go ahead BWP thought hed 
likely have to transfer his pension to a new SIPP. And whilst BWP noted (apparently largely 
from its discussions with Mr Bs friend who was involved in the development) that there were 
two potential new SIPP providers, only one, R, featured on the approved list of providers. 
BWP then considered some of the potential implications if Mr B were to transfer his existing 
pensions as a means of investing in the Canadian development. These included:
Mr Bs existing SIPP had a protected retirement age of 35. If he transferred this 
SIPP, hed likely lose this protection and his contract would revert to a standard 
retirement age of 55. BWP noted it strongly recommended against this.
Transferring Mr Bs personal pension wouldnt involve losing the same protected 
benefits. However, there was an early surrender fee of over £4,000. So, whilst BWP 
thought it was probably ill advised for Mr B to go ahead with the transfer, it said it 
would at least allow him to retain his protected retirement age of 35 on his SIPP and 
still invest in another SIPP. And, ultimately, hed still be able to invest in the 
Canadian property development if he wanted to.
Having discussed things with Mr B, BWP noted he was keen to retain his protected 
retirement age of 35, as there was the possibility hed need to draw on his pension in the 
coming years. So, BWP felt the only real option if Mr B wanted to go ahead was to transfer 
his pension with A and suffer the early surrender penalty. BWP gave Mr B a note of the fees 
and services attached to the SIPP with R. And it noted that, having reviewed them, it was 
comfortable that this would be the best provider should the investment go ahead. 
BWP also noted that (apart from the exit penalties and fees associated with transferring 
Mr Bs personal pension to a SIPP with R), it had major concerns about the underlying 
investment in the Canadian property development. It noted it had strongly expressed to 
Mr B that it wasnt in a position to give him a direct recommendation about these 
investments, as they didnt fall within its remit of advice. As such BWP thought Mr B needed 
to seek specialist advice if he wanted to proceed. However, BWP noted that Mr Bs strong 
personal relationship with the aforementioned regional sales manager meant he felt able to 
trust what hed been told about the development. Despite that, BWP said it had also pointed 
out the following to Mr B:
Its concerns about the assets owned by the development company.
It thought the so called guaranteed return of 150% on an investment of about 
£50,000 over 2-5 years seemed wildly generous particularly when the developer 
could potentially secure cheaper finance via standard commercial lending. And BWP 
thought that this potentially raised concerns about the developers financial stability 
and long-term prospects. However, it again added that it couldnt give a direct 
recommendation about this so strongly encouraged Mr B to seek specialist 
investment advice. 
It would only be able to complete the transaction on an insistent client execution only 
basis, which would require Mr B to sign a declaration confirming BWP hadnt given 
him a recommendation about the underlying investment. It suggested the extent of its 
involvement was to warn Mr B of the exit penalties that would apply if he transferred 
his existing pension along with the new SIPP providers and its own fees. 
Its actual recommendation would have been to leave his pension funds where they 
were until such time as any early surrender penalty periods had passed. At which 
point it would then have reviewed his pension plans in full. And if Mr B was still 
interested in investing in overseas property development, a specialist fund manager 
could advise him. It also pointed out that this might be possible through Mr Bs 
existing SIPP. However, BWP noted that Mr B didnt wish to discuss that in any great 
detail, as he was extremely keen and insistent on investing in the specific 
development discussed.
BWP noted that Mr B understood in undertaking an investment in this particular 
development, his full capital was at risk and the 150% guaranteed return on capital could 
never transpire. Despite that, it said he still wished to proceed. 
During the meeting BWP said it would also review Mr Bs existing SIPP with J to determine 
whether there was a more beneficial contract on the market that might be more suitable. 
Thats because Mr B had indicated he wasnt happy with Js administration of the SIPP and 
its investment performance. BWP noted it had discussed Mr Bs investment time horizon, 
attitude to risk (ATR) and desires as far as future investments were concerned. Mr B had 
indicated he wanted his pension invested in top performing investments. So, BWP 
recommended several new investments to Mr B. It also noted it made Mr B aware that past 
performance was no guarantee of future performance and that by increasing his ATR (as 
these changes would do) he was also increasing the possibility that his fund value could go 
down and the investment volatility would increase significantly. BWP noted that Mr B was 
happy to proceed regardless. But, as his SIPP with J didnt give Mr B access to the newly 
selected investments, theyd have to be selected via an external process, which involved 
additional costs. 
BWP wrote to Mr B in October 2011 to summarise their meeting making many of the same 
points as noted above. Whilst BWP noted that Mr B had taken on board its concerns and 
recommendation to seek specialist advice, he remained very insistent about investing in 
the Canadian development. Whilst BWP noted that Mr B was already familiar with SIPPs, it also included a number of risk warnings in its letter and it included a declaration for Mr B to 
sign, which said: 
BWP hadnt given him any advice about investing in the Canadian development;
It had told him to seek specialist advice in relation to this particular investment;
Mr B was aware that there was a penalty when transferring his personal pension;
Mr B was aware that BWP had only recommended the SIPP with R to facilitate his 
investment in the development and would not normally recommend he transfer his 
pension with A due to the penalty involved;
Mr B was aware that investing in the Canadian development was extremely high risk 
and may result in my pension monies being lost.
Mr B signed the declaration and went ahead with the transfer into a SIPP and investment 
into the development.  
He then complained to BWP in September 2019 about the advice hed received in 2011 and 
BWP having then facilitated the transfer of his pension into the SIPP. He said hed since lost 
all of his investment (roughly half of his total pension pot) as the property development had 
gone into administration. 
BWP responded in December 2019. It said that, as it was no longer acting as Mr Bs 
financial adviser, it hadnt received notification from the pension provider, R, that his 
investment had failed and that hed since lost all of the money hed invested. BWP pointed 
out that when Mr B first approached it about his intention to invest in the development, his 
appointed adviser and a colleague had expressed concern about the high-risk nature of the 
investment, most serious being the fact that you could lose all of your money. As such, 
BWP had suggested Mr B seek specialist advice before making an investment. It noted that 
Mr B declined to do so and was insistent about investing in the development and about the 
amount he wanted to invest. So, BWP said its advice was limited to the best way for Mr B to 
facilitate the investment. Also noting Rs warnings to Mr B, BWP thought he had no grounds 
for complaint in relation to his investment failing. BWP felt it was Mr Bs choice to proceed 
without taking the specialist advice recommended. And it thought it had done everything 
possible to warn him of the likely risks and potential consequences. It also felt it had tried to 
discourage Mr B from proceeding.  
Mr B then complained to us and one of our investigators looked into things. The investigator 
felt that (having first agreed with BWP and Mr B that this was a complaint we could consider) 
BWP hadnt done everything it should  as it should also have considered the suitability of 
the underlying investment when helping to facilitate the transfer of Mr Bs pension. However, 
the investigator felt that Mr B would have gone ahead in any event, even if that had involved 
the help of a different financial firm. So, he didnt think BWP was responsible for the losses 
Mr B suffered and said it didnt need to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked for his complaint to be 
considered afresh by an Ombudsman. Amongst other things he questioned what proof the 
investigator had to suggest hed have gone ahead with transferring his pension anyway - 
particularly as hed never invested in that type of investment before. And he insisted that had 
BWP adamantly stated that they would walk away rather than do the transaction hed have 
taken note and not proceeded.
Mr Bs complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the accounts both parties have given me. Theres some disagreement about 
the purpose of the August 2011 meeting; what Mr Bs specific intentions were and the extent 
of BWPs involvement and responsibilities in terms of what happened next. Where theres a 
conflict about what happened - as there clearly is here- I base my decision on what I 
consider is more likely to have happened based on the balance of probabilities. 
BWPs position is that it treated Mr B as an insistent execution only client. Ill say here that 
there isnt such a category of client. An insistent client is one who, having been given 
advice by a business, decides to go against what the business recommends and wants it to 
conduct the transaction against their advice. Whereas an execution only client is one who 
gives a specific instruction to a business. The business then carries out that transaction for 
the consumer who neither receives nor expects to receive advice.  
BWP also seems to be saying that it didnt give Mr B any advice about the underlying 
investments - apparently because it didnt have the right authority to do so. And whilst it 
pointed out its concerns to Mr B about the high-risk nature of the Canadian property 
development, it said he insisted on going ahead. So, as far as BWP is concerned, its 
involvement was limited to helping facilitate the means by which Mr B could invest in the 
development, which involved transferring his personal pension into a SIPP.
Ive thought about what BWP said and I dont agree that Mr B was an execution only client. 
As Ive said above, this type of client is one who typically gives a specific instruction to a 
financial business and that business carries out the transaction on their behalf. So, the client 
doesnt receive or expect to receive advice. For reasons Ill later explain, I think BWP did 
give Mr B advice, so he couldnt have been classed as an execution only client. 
Im inclined to think that Mr B did come to the August 2011 meeting with the idea of 
potentially investing in the Canadian property development introduced to him by his friend. 
And in terms of what prompted the meeting, I am more persuaded from the evidence Ive 
seen that Mr B probably did instigate it. I say that because from BWPs meeting notes, its 
clear that Mr B had some concerns about the way his existing pensions were being 
overseen and performing. And he was clearly looking for an investment with greater returns. 
So, it seems entirely plausible, particularly given the extremely high investment returns 
promised from the overseas development, that hed want to talk to his financial adviser about 
how he might release funds to invest in it.
However, I think theres a difference between coming to a meeting with a high-level 
investment idea in mind and giving a very specific instruction to a business without receiving 
any advice at all. I dont think the latter applies in Mr Bs case. I can see from the evidence 
that BWP discussed how Mr B might use his existing pensions to fund an investment in the 
Canadian development. And it discussed how hed likely have to open a new SIPP to do so. 
As Ive already outlined, BWP also discussed the risks of Mr B potentially losing valuable 
benefits (such as a protected retirement age of 35), or, in the case of his personal pension, 
having to pay an early surrender fee of over £4,000. So, this wasnt a case of BWP simply 
acting upon Mr Bs instruction. Despite what BWP might think, Im persuaded it did give Mr B 
advice. And with that advice came a number of important responsibilities. 
For the reasons Ill now set out, I dont think BWP acted in line with the regulators 
requirements when giving Mr B advice. 
Section 9.2.1 R of the FCAs Code of Business Sourcebook (COBS) says:(1).A firm must:
(a) take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a decision to 
trade, is suitable for its client; and
(2).When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, 
the firm must obtain the necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type 
of designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is 
suitable for the client 
Section 9.2.2 of COBS says:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, 
giving due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent with 
his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand 
the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3)  The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including 
liquid assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
The evidence Ive seen doesnt show that BWP followed a typical advice route. For instance, 
theres nothing to show that it carried out a normal fact find, which explored some of the 
important questions set out in COBS. Such an exercise will usually involve finding out about 
the consumers aims and objectives; knowledge of investments; attitude to risk and, 
importantly, their capacity for loss. Its possible that the limited steps taken were to some 
extent driven by the advisers previous dealings with Mr B. So, he may have felt he knew 
enough about Mr B already and didnt need to go over these things. Or it may simply have 
been because BWP didnt believe it was actually giving advice. Whatever the reason, I dont 
think BWP acted in line with the regulators requirements when giving Mr B advice. 
And it wasnt just a question of BWP ensuring it was suitable for Mr B to transfer his personal 
pension into a SIPP. The regulator also made clear that financial businesses are expected to 
advise on whether the underlying investments are also suitable. 
In an alert issued in 2013, the regulator at the time (the FSA) said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the consumer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, 
then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
consumer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the consumer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be 
held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all 
as it will not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
I think this alert (which was not new information but was intended to serve as a useful 
reminder) makes clear that its not enough for a business to advise on the suitability of a 
pension transfer without also considering the suitability of the intended investments. And 
whilst I accept that BWP did give Mr B various warnings about the high-risk nature of the 
investments and asked him to sign a declaration stating it hadnt advised on them, I dont 
think that was enough to satisfy the regulators requirements. I also appreciate that BWP 
appears not to have had the correct authority to be able to properly advise Mr B about the 
suitability of the Canadian development and that it recommended Mr B seek specialist 
advice. But in these circumstances, I think what BWP should have done to fulfil its 
obligations was to tell Mr B that it couldnt offer him any advice at all about transferring his 
pension from a personal pension to a SIPP. Thats because it couldnt also consider the 
suitability of the underlying investments. As BWP didnt do that, it follows that I dont think it 
acted fairly and reasonably or in line with the regulators requirements.  
Ill also say here that I dont agree with BWPs suggestion that Mr B was an insistent client. 
This definition typically applies to clients whove received a personal recommendation from a 
business, but they decide to go against that recommendation by insisting the business does 
something else. Again, there are clear expectations set out by the regulator in these sorts of 
circumstances. BWP expressly stated that it hadnt given Mr B advice about the investment 
(because it couldnt). So, when Mr B decided to proceed, it wasnt a question of him 
specifically going against BWPs advice. Whilst its right to say it had highlighted some of the 
risks as it saw them, that doesnt automatically mean that Mr B became an insistent client. 
And I dont think he truly fitted that bill. In any event, even if he was, I still dont think BWPs 
actions would have satisfied the regulators requirements. I say that in particular because, 
having given a consumer advice, the business should then give them time to consider it. And 
in the event that they want to proceed, the consumer should explain, in their own words, why 
they want to go ahead regardless of the advice theyve received. In this case, having given 
Mr B advice, BWP simply gave him a pre-populated declaration to sign without satisfying the 
regulators other requirements. And that wasnt enough.  
For all the reasons Ive set out, I dont think BWP acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
the regulators requirements when giving Mr B advice. But I now need to consider if BWPs 
failings here caused Mr Bs financial loss. 
So, a key question that I need to consider is whats likely to have happened even if BWP had 
acted correctly. Mr B says hed always acted upon advice throughout the years hed been 
dealing with the adviser. That may or may not be the case. And whilst I appreciate that Mr B 
now has the benefit of hindsight, I dont think demonstration of having followed previous 
advice is, in itself, enough here to say Mr B would have done the same in 2011 even if the 
adviser had told him he wasnt willing or able to facilitate Mr Bs investment in the Canadian 
development. I say that, in part, because it was clear that by 2011 Mr B wasnt happy with 
how his pension was performing. And the evidence suggests he was looking for other (and 
potentially more risky ways) to boost his pension pot. 
Aside from the warnings that BWP does appear to have given Mr B about investing in the 
Canadian development, I can see it also discussed with him how he might invest differently 
within his existing SIPP. Again, its clear that Mr Bs aim was to explore how he could go 
about potentially achieving bigger returns on his investments. And whilst that discussion 
doesnt specifically fall within the scope of this particular decision, it does paint a picture that 
suggests Mr B appeared willing to make riskier investments in the hope of receiving higher returns. I can see BWP again told him that by increasing his ATR across his investments, he 
was also increasing the possibility that his fund could reduce dramatically - whilst 
significantly increasing the volatility of his investment portfolio. Again, Mr B appears to have 
said he was happy to go ahead. And that agreement was made in the knowledge that there 
were likely to be concurrent risks associated with investing in the Canadian development. 
That also meant that the whole of Mr Bs pension pot was potentially at risk. A key 
consideration here is also that this development was recommended to Mr B by a personal 
and trusted friend. And he seems to have made that point clear to BWP, irrespective of the 
concerns it put to him. 
Taking all of this into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr B would have gone 
ahead with the investment, even if BWP hadnt helped to facilitate it. I know that this will 
come as disappointing news to Mr B but for that reason, I cant fairly say that BWP was 
responsible for any losses Mr B eventually suffered. So, I make no award in respect of his 
financial loss.
In addition, if we dont think a consumer would have gone ahead with an investment had it
not been for the businesss advice or facilitation, wed typically ask the business to refund 
the charges they took. However, as Ive outlined, I think Mr B wouldve invested in
the Canadian development anyway, even if BWP had refused to be involved. Given that, I 
think Mr B wouldve paid similar fees to another adviser to facilitate the transaction for him. 
And for that reason, I wont be asking BWP to refund the fees Mr B paid.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman