DRN-3778568
The complaint
Ms B has complained about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) using the redress from a 
mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to repay a debt, on the basis that it was 
written off when her protected trust deed ended.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
Ms B had a PPI policy on her RBS credit card. Ms B went through a protected trust deed, so 
the account was written off, and a portion of the credit card debt remained unpaid and in 
arrears.
Ms B later complained about the sale of the PPI. RBS initially rejected this, then some years 
later they looked at things again as part of a review exercise and accepted theyd mis-sold 
the policy to Ms B. 
RBS offered Ms B a refund, but subject to clearing any arrears first. Ms B accepted this offer, 
and RBS used the PPI redress to clear the arrears on the related credit card, then they paid 
the remainder to Ms B.
Ms B felt that RBS were wrong to do this and that theyd made a mockery of her trust deed. 
She questioned why theyd initially rejected her mis-sale claim. She was unhappy that RBS 
had explained that if she objected, it would need to ultimately be dealt with in court. She 
asked for RBS to either pay all the redress to her, or to get her trust deed reopened so that 
the redress could be shared amongst all the creditors involved.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case, 
Ive also taken into account the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, relevant codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
The relevant law in this case is Scots law.
In a case very similar to this complaint, the Inner House of the Court of Session held that a 
business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt which they were 
discharged from when their trust deed ended. The case is called Donnelly v Royal Bank of 
Scotland [2019] CSIH 56. However, the business then asked the Outer House of the Court 
of Session  in Royal Bank of Scotland v Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106  to set aside or undo 
the consumers discharge. This would effectively re-open the trust deed and allow it to use 
the PPI redress to reduce the debt that was left unpaid  also known as the right of set off. 
The court found that the trustee should have ideally pursued the PPI claim, and not doing so 
was an error. So the court said it could  and usually would  set aside the consumers 
discharge, unless there were exceptional circumstances which would make it inconvenient 
and unjust.
Ive thought about what this means for Ms B. On the one hand, on the assumption that the 
terms of her trust deed are the same as those in the court case, RBS could not argue that it 
had the right to set off in court unless the court first set aside Ms Bs discharge. And I dont 
know what a court might do in Ms Bs case  its possible it may decide to set aside her 
discharge, or its possible it may decide not to do so.
On the other hand, I look at things more broadly, based on what is fair and reasonable. And 
in this case, I think its fair for RBS to use Ms Bs credit card PPI redress to reduce the 
unpaid balance on the very same credit card. Ill explain why.
When two parties owe each other money, it seems only fair that they each pay what they 
owe. While RBS owed Ms B about £1,800 for mis-selling PPI on her credit card, Ms B left an 
unpaid balance of about £1,600 on that very same credit card. So its both fair and practical 
to use one debt to reduce the other.
Put another way: lets imagine a situation where Ms B owed someone money, and they also 
owed her money. I dont think shed feel it was fair if they never paid her back but she was 
still forced to pay them  even if that other person had since been insolvent.
And while of course I accept that Ms B was discharged from her trust deed  meaning that 
RBS couldnt chase her for the debt anymore  it did not mean that the underlying debt was 
repaid. And the amount left outstanding on Ms Bs credit card after her trust deed was not 
insignificant.
I am also mindful that Ms Bs trust deed ended some years ago. But then her PPI redress 
comes from premiums which she paid even longer ago. So if I were to find that RBS were 
chasing a debt from too long ago, Id surely have to fairly say that Ms B was also chasing a 
debt from too long ago.
Another point is that when a PPI policy has been mis-sold, we tell businesses to put their 
customers in the financial position theyd be in now had the policy never been sold  as far 
as its possible to do that. Here, had Ms Bs credit card PPI not been sold, then she would 
not have had an extra £1,800 or so now. Instead, her credit card balance would have been 
smaller as the PPI premiums would have never been added to that balance. So it makes the 
most sense to use the PPI redress to reduce that same credit card balance to what it would 
have been. Here, RBSs calculations show that it wouldve most likely been a 0 balance 
without PPI. So it makes sense to use the PPI redress to get it to 0 now.Further, some of the PPI premiums were charged to Ms Bs credit card but then written off in 
the trust deed. That means theres premiums she never actually paid for with her own money 
 they were left unpaid on the outstanding balance. And it certainly doesnt seem fair for 
RBS to give Ms B a refund of money that she never paid in the first place.
So I dont think I can fairly tell RBS to pay Ms B all the compensation directly when there 
was a debt outstanding on the very same account.
I should explain that had Ms Bs trustee known about the potential PPI claim and pursued it 
before discharging her  which is ideally what should have happened  then RBS would 
have been able to assert its right of set off in any case. I appreciate why Ms B thought the 
redress would be equally split amongst all the creditors, but actually RBS would have been 
able to set it off before that. Setting off debts is a standard practice in insolvency  its 
normal for a bank to offset debts it owes the customer against debts the customer owes it. 
Its generally after set off that any money is then divided amongst all the creditors. This is 
usually known as the principle of balancing of accounts in bankruptcy.
Ms B suggested RBS should still apply for her trust deed to be reopened. Ms B can dispute 
this in court if she wants to and ask for her trust deed to be reopened. But by setting off 
Ms Bs redress as they did, RBS have avoided a lot of hassle for both sides while essentially 
coming to the same result. On that note, I appreciate that Ms B didnt like hearing about the 
potential of court action. But RBS were correct that if she objected to their proposal and 
wanted a court to consider whether the trust deed should be reopened or not, then this 
would indeed involve court action. So it seems reasonable that they explained this to her.
Lastly, I appreciate Ms B is unhappy that RBS initially turned down her mis-selling claim in 
2012. But Im afraid its too late for us to be able to consider that now  Ms B had the 
opportunity to refer that to us at the time, but didnt. I should also explain that the award RBS 
made included simple interest to compensate Ms B for all the time she was out of pocket, so 
the extra time involved was taken into account there. I can see Ms B has mainly questioned 
why RBS changed their minds about the mis-selling. In case its helpful, Ill explain that over 
time, banks got better at identifying which policies had or had not been mis-sold. Our service 
helped them understand where theyd gone wrong in the past. So some banks  like RBS  
went back and relooked at old cases to see if theyd come to the wrong conclusion before. It 
seems thats what happened here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc settled Ms Bs PPI 
complaint in a fair way. I understand that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc have already paid 
the settlement. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman