DRN-2094404
The complaint
Mr E complains about how Lloyds Bank Plc dealt with him on the maturity of the interest-only 
part of his mortgage and in particular the way it changed the contractual monthly payment 
(CMP) which meant that he had to pay extra interest when his mortgage was redeemed.
What happened
Mr E had a mortgage with Lloyds part of which was interest only and part of which was 
repayment mortgage. The interest only part matured in 2015 whereas the repayment part 
was to mature much later. Mr E intended to repay the mortgage including the interest-only 
part by selling his property and downsizing. Lloyds granted term extensions to allow him to 
do so. It also continued to collect his mortgage payments by direct debit including the 
interest due on the interest only part of the mortgage as part of the CMP. At the beginning of 
2018 Mr Es CMP was £598.77. Lloyds wrote to Mr E in February 2018 telling him that its 
method of calculating monthly payments was changing from May, but this would only affect 
repayment mortgages in arrears and not interest only mortgages.
But after May 2018 it stopped collecting the interest payments on the interest-only part of the 
mortgage and the direct debit then only collected the contractual monthly payments (CMP) 
which were now solely in respect of the repayment part of the mortgage. So, the CMP 
dropped to £313.77. 
As this continuing interest on the now matured part of the mortgage was no longer collected, 
and as Mr E didnt make separate payments in respect of that, the balance on the interest 
only mortgage increased. Mr E says that despite various contacts with the Lloyds End of 
Term team over the period who wanted updates on the sale of his property, nobody came 
back to him about any payments due on his interest-only account.  When Mr E eventually 
took out an equity release product and redeemed the mortgage in 2019, he had to pay the 
accrued interest. Mr E complains that this was unfair, and that Lloyds should write off the 
interest accrued from when it amended the monthly payments.
Mr E complained and Lloyds agreed that its letter of February 2018 didnt clearly explain how 
the change impacted on Mr Es monthly payment. It said that because of a recommendation 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that the bank could no longer ask for arrears 
within the contractual monthly payment (CMP). As Mr Es interest only accounts were 
wholly in arrears the bank didnt add payments towards the interest only balances in the 
CMP. 
This meant that as Mr E wasnt making any payments towards it, and the interest continued, 
the balance increased between July 2018 and August 2019 by £4,171.22. In its letter in 
response to the complaint of 30 September 2019, Lloyds offered compensation of £300 for 
that error. Lloyds said that if Mr E paid £ 4,171.22 the payment would be back dated as if it 
had been paid on a month by month basis removing any additional interest accrued. The 
bank also said that Mr E could set up a standing order until the account was redeemed. Our 
investigators view was that the redress offered by Lloyds was reasonable and didnt 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr E disagreed and asked for a review 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The interest only part of Mr Es mortgage matured back in 2015.  It was repaid when Mr E 
took out an equity release product in 2019.  In dealing with this complaint Ive reviewed how 
Lloyds dealt with Mr E on the maturity of the interest-only part of his mortgage. It seems 
clear that Mr Es repayment plan was to sell the property and downsize as this is mentioned 
several times in the notes on the file that I reviewed. In 2019, Mr E had a balance on his 
mortgage of about £212,000 and he had the property on the market for in excess of 
£600,000. So, the plan to sell and downsize looked a reasonable proposition and Lloyds was 
agreeable to it. The notes suggest that for some period after 2015 the property wasnt 
actually on the market and in 2018 Lloyds agreed to allow Mr E a further year to sell it. 
Although Mr E complains about being unfairly pressurised by Lloyds to repay the mortgage, 
the fact that Lloyds allowed such an extended period to do so wouldnt support that.
 
By that time Mr E had retired from his work in a bank and was in his late 60s. Although he 
had access to some savings and a pension in drawdown, his only regular income was a 
state pension. This meant that any alternative arrangements that required finance from 
income were going to be difficult. There is a note that Mr E managed to source an interest-
only mortgage elsewhere but didnt consider it suitable as he wanted a part and part 
mortgage. Lloyds looked at a repayment mortgage but considered it unaffordable given his 
income. 
It doesnt seem to me, given Mr Es income that a further mortgage would be in Mr Es best 
interests either as it would be likely to lead to a problem with his mortgage payments. Mr E 
didnt want an interest only mortgage and any other mortgage was likely to be unaffordable. 
As Mr E was unable to sell the property Lloyds offered its assisted voluntary sale service but 
Mr E was unhappy with the terms and conditions. In 2019, Lloyds was considering legal 
action to recover the property but on review it seems that it realised that it hadnt suggested 
to Mr E that equity release may be a solution which is how the situation resolved itself. The 
equity release funding and part of Mr Es savings paid off the Lloyds mortgage. 
My view of Lloyds actions is that the bank acted fairly and reasonably giving Mr E plenty of 
leeway to pursue his preferred solution and waiting until 2019 for money that was due in 
2015. This looked to be a case where the best interests of both parties would be achieved by 
Mr E selling and downsizing. In those circumstances, I can understand why the alternative 
solution of an equity release may not have occurred until late in the day given Mr Es 
expressed wish to downsize.
  
This particular complaint relates to the changes that came into effect in the summer of 2018 
when Lloyds began to collect substantially smaller payments than it had done before. The 
letter of February 2018 does not alert Mr E to this and in fact there is no correspondence 
telling him what Lloyds is going to do. Lloyds accepts its letter was inadequate. I agree with 
that. At that stage Mr E had been making a monthly payment to both accounts and was in an 
arrangement to allow him a further 12 months to sell his house. I would have thought it 
reasonable at that stage for Lloyds to make contact with him to see what alternative 
arrangements could be made about making payments to the interest-only account which it 
didnt. I consider this was a service failure for which Mr E should be compensated.
The questions I have to go on to consider are whether in addition, Lloyds actions were an 
indication that no further interest was accruing on the interest only part of his mortgage and if 
it would be unreasonable to require Mr E to pay that interest.From May 2018, Lloyds instead of collecting £598.77 each month from Mr Es account as it 
had done previously, collected about half of that, £313.27. At that stage Mr Es regular 
income was solely a pension of £1,000 per month. So, there was clearly a major change in 
his income and outgoings. Although I cant see it in the Lloyds contact notes Mr E says that 
he contacted Lloyds on several occasions asking them why they stopped taking payments 
and says that one person told him that it would be reinstated but it wasnt. My view of this is 
that Mr E was aware that the interest would continue but was annoyed that Lloyds werent 
collecting it. Mr E, who had worked in a bank, doesnt suggest that he believed that the 
interest was no longer going to be charged so its not a case where Lloyds misled him to 
believe that. So clearly Mr E was aware that there was a continuing liability to Lloyds 
although it wasnt being collected. 
The related issue Ive looked at is whether Lloyds failure to set up an arrangement to collect 
the money imposed an unreasonable hardship on Mr E. But I dont accept that it would have 
been. Mr E had a limited regular income and there would have been some benefit to him in 
the reduction of half his mortgage outgoings for a year. Mr E had some savings which could 
have been used to pay the accumulated interest when requested.
Lloyds response to Mr Es complaint was to allow Mr E to pay the accumulated interest off 
without additional late interest and to offer him £300 compensation.  My view is that this was 
a reasonable offer as in addition to the compensation, it meant that Mr E wouldnt have lost 
out financially as a result of the interest-only payments not having been collected. So, I cant 
fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman