DRN-2350990
The complaint
Miss T complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a cancellation claim 
she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss T booked a package holiday abroad in May 2019. She was due to travel on 20 March 
2020 first to one South Asian country which Ill call C and then fly onto another country, 
which Ill call V. She was due to fly back to the UK on 6 April 2020. Miss T took out a single 
trip travel insurance policy to cover her trip in July 2019.
On 9 March 2020, Miss T learned that the visa requirements for V had changed and shed 
need a different type of visa. On 11 March 2020, she found out that Vs government had 
decided to stop issuing visas for the foreseeable future. As Miss T couldnt have travelled 
into V without the necessary visa, she cancelled her trip. She was able to exchange her 
flights for a later date. But on 13 March 2020, she made a claim on her travel insurance 
policy for her accommodation costs. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
ERGO turned down Miss Ts claim. It said the cancellation section of her policy didnt cover 
the circumstances of her claim. It also suggested that as shed booked a package holiday, 
she could try and recover her trip costs from her travel provider or make a claim through her 
credit card provider or bank. 
Miss T was unhappy with ERGOs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ts complaint should be upheld. Ultimately, she didnt think 
the cancellation section of the policy covered claims which happened because a policyholder 
hadnt been able to get the right visa documentation.
Miss T disagreed. Ive summarised her response to our investigator. Shed paid out more for 
a deluxe policy which she thought should cover everything. She said that she couldnt 
obtain a refund through her travel provider, as shed cancelled the trip before the FCOs 
guidance had changed. Shed done everything she could to mitigate her losses. She felt her 
circumstances were exceptional and that insurers had a duty of care to their customers. She 
told us that the rest of her party had all been paid out by their insurers. She didnt think any 
insurers would cover her particular circumstances, but she felt that insurers should be 
helping their customers during this time.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for ERGO to turn down Miss Ts claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive looked carefully at the terms of 
Miss Ts policy and the circumstances of her claim to decide if ERGO handled her claim 
fairly.
Ive first considered the cancellation section of Miss Ts policy. Thats because the policy 
terms form the contract between Miss T and ERGO. This section of the policy sets out an 
exhaustive list of specific insured events which are covered for cancellation. It says ERGO 
will pay for the irrecoverable deposits and payments for unused travel and accommodation if 
a holiday has to be cancelled for one of the following reasons:
The death, illness or injury of a policyholder; their close relative; a friend with whom a 
policyholder was due to stay, or a business associate;
A policyholder or someone they were due to stay with being placed in quarantine; 
being called for jury service or as a court witness;
A policyholders redundancy;
A policyholder whos a member of the armed forces or emergency services being 
unexpectedly called for emergency or unavoidable duty;
A policyholders home becoming uninhabitable due to fire, storm or flood; or the 
Police requiring their presence during the week before departure, and
A policyholders pregnancy, in certain situations.
I think this list of insured events is clearly set out and explains the cancellation reasons that 
ERGO covers. I understand Miss T couldnt have foreseen either the change in visa 
requirements; or that subsequently, visas wouldnt be issued at all by Vs government when 
she took out the policy. But I think it was fair for ERGO to conclude that her circumstances 
didnt fall within the scope of any of these insured events. This means I think it was fair for 
ERGO to consider that her claim simply wasnt covered by the cancellation section of the 
policy.
The cancellation section of the policy also includes a list of specific events that ERGO 
doesnt cover. The policy says:
What each insured person is NOT covered for:
-Any expenses or losses arising from You not having the correct travel documents, 
passport, visa, inoculation certificate or any other document necessary for Your 
travel.
In my view, this exclusion clause makes it clear that ERGO doesnt cover cancellation claims 
where a policyholder doesnt have the right visa. Miss T has told us that the reason for the 
cancellation of her trip was because of the change in visa requirements by Vs government, 
which she couldnt get before she was due to travel and which she couldnt get into V 
without. Shes told us that the cancellation was of her trip wasnt due to Covid-19. She said 
flights were still departing to her destination and hotels were still open at the point she 
cancelled her trip on 13 March 2020. Based on this evidence, I think it was fair for ERGO to 
conclude that Miss Ts claim wasnt covered by the terms of her policy.I appreciate Miss Ts significantly out of pocket as a result of the cancellation of her trip and I 
sympathise with her position. I also understand that Miss T couldnt have foreseen that she 
wouldnt be able to travel. But insurance policies simply dont cover every eventuality or 
possible reason for cancellation. Insurers are able to choose what risks they do and dont 
want to insure, so long as they clearly set out the extent of cover in the policy terms and 
conditions. And insurers often offer different levels of cover and may insure different risks, 
which means claims may be covered by one insurer, but not by another in the same 
circumstances. This doesnt mean the insurer has done anything wrong. In this case, as Ive 
explained, I think the policy terms were clear. So I think it was fair for ERGO to consider 
Miss Ts circumstances simply werent covered. And I dont think it would be reasonable for 
me to direct ERGO to pay Miss Ts claim in these circumstances.
Taking the above into account, Ive decided it was fair and reasonable for ERGO to turn 
down Miss Ts claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman