DRN-3383943
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the service received by By Miles Ltd (By Miles) and has
complained that it didnt honour the excess amount which it first offered when he was
purchasing a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D bought a motor insurance policy online in June 2021, after By Miles offered an excess
on his policy of £300. Following payment of a sum of money by Mr D, a document was sent 
to him and this showed an excess of £1,600. By Miles Ltd also sent an e-mail to Mr D and 
other customers, stating there had been a technical error in the initial offer Mr D had 
received and accepted.
Mr D wanted By Miles to honour its initial offer of an excess of £300 and to do the same for
other customers affected by the same issue.
Our investigator didnt think that By Miles needed to do anything else or to honour the £300
excess. He thought that By Miles actions had provided a fair and reasonable solution to the
problem, because it notified Mr D of the problem two weeks before the policy started and
then added a further 21 days to allow time for Mr D to arrange an alternative policy.
Mr D remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and considered that the
agreement between By Miles and himself was legally binding. The matter was therefore 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In February 2022, I 
issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to partly 
uphold Mr Ds complaint regarding the service quality element only, as follows; -
Im minded to partly uphold Mr Ds complaint in terms of the upset and inconvenience
caused to him by By Miles error. Im not minded however to require By Miles to honour the
excess amount which it first offered when Mr D was purchasing a motor insurance policy. My
reasons for this are as follows.
Mr D noted the technical glitch but stated that the terms and conditions By Miles offered,
and that hed accepted and paid for, were legally binding. He said that if the underwriter
wouldn't change its view, then By Miles was responsible as an insurance intermediary.
By Miles stated that the excess shown on the online site at the time of buying the policy was
wrong, due to an error, and it apologised for its mistake. It said that the correct excess was
reflected in the policy schedule it emailed to Mr D. As an apology, By Miles stated that it
would add £50 in free miles credit to his account if Mr D wished to continue with his policy.
By Miles also provided the option for Mr D to cancel his policy, refund any premium paid,
waive the cancellation fee and arrange for his miles tracker to be returned at no extra cost.
It said that the compulsory excess was set by its underwriters and that it was subject to
restrictions on how it was able to price a policy. It stated that its policy and contract had a
compulsory excess of £1,600 and if Mr D didnt confirm cancellation, the policy would remain
open. By Miles informed Mr D that, in all the circumstances; cancellation of the policy may
be the best way forward. It also considered that it had acted in a flexible manner and
essentially provided free cover to allow enough time to allow Mr D to find suitable cover with
another provider.
Ive carefully considered what both By Miles and Mr D have to say, and Ive concluded on a
provisional basis that By Miles error caused Mr D inconvenience and upset. He had to make
alternative insurance arrangements and he considered that it reneged on its agreement. By
Miles did offer £50 in free miles due to the error, however this offer would only apply if Mr D
continued with his policy. In the circumstances, I find, on a provisional basis, that By Miles
should pay Mr S £100 compensation. I consider that this would provide a fair and reasonable
outcome to this aspect of Mr Ds complaint.
With regard to By Miles declining to honour the initial excess amount, Ive provisionally
concluded that By Miles hasnt acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner. Im satisfied that
the solutions offered in the light of its error were fair and reasonable. It had identified and
acted upon an error in its systems and promptly offered reasonable solutions for dealing with
this error. Ive noted in particular that Mr D was notified of the error two weeks before his
policy had started. He was also given a further 21 days from the original deadline to consider
options. This, together with the modest sum in compensation, places Mr D back into the
position he would have been had the error not occurred.
I appreciate that Mr D feels strongly about this matter and that this decision may come as a
disappointment to him. I dont consider however that By Miles has acted unfairly or
unreasonably by declining to implement the £300 excess which it had offered in error. I
provisionally conclude that By Miles recognised its error and took steps which, together with
the proposed sum of compensation, provides a fair and reasonable solutions to remedy that
error.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Mr D and By Miles if they had any further comments 
or evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
By Miles hasnt indicated that it has any other final points which it would like to make. Mr D 
makes two further points however: -
Firstly, Mr D states that the provisional decision was mute on the legal point which he 
considered to be of great importance. He was of the view that the agreement was legally 
binding. He thought that it was not enough to make things fair or give the consumer a way 
out. Mr D expected the decision to focus on the legal aspect including consumer laws and 
rights and asked that this be included in the final decision.
I appreciate Mr Ds concerns. I can confirm however that the role of this service is to resolve 
complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances of 
the case as we provide an informal alternative to the courts. This doesnt prevent parties 
from pursuing complaints through the courts in order to explore the detailed legal arguments 
which arise from the facts of particular cases.
In basic terms, a contract is formed when there is an offer, acceptance, consideration, and 
an intention to be legally bound. However, even where these elements can be made out, a 
contract can be voided under common law rules if a mistake is made by a party or parties in particular situations. There are also in certain circumstances, other legal remedies which 
may be available to parties if they enter a contract by mistake.
In this case, whilst noting Mr Ds point, a court would be the appropriate forum to make 
detailed legal submissions in order to establish a strict legal determination on the facts. Im 
satisfied however, on the available evidence, that the provisional decision provides a fair, 
reasonable and proportionate solution following admission by By Miles of its mistake. 
Secondly, Mr D states that the compensation should be in the form of a refund and not free 
miles, as he may never use those. I agree with Mr D, and it is for this reason that I require By 
Miles to pay the sum of £100 in compensation for the service quality issue rather than free 
miles.
Subject to the points noted and accepted as above, in all the circumstances, Ive concluded 
that the provisional decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the matter and I 
partially uphold Mr Ds complaint as follows.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Mr Ds complaint regarding the service quality 
element only, and to require By Miles Ltd to pay to Mr D £100 compensation for the upset 
and inconvenience caused by its acknowledged error in this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman