DRN-3921788
The complaint
Miss G complains HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from losing over 
£35,000 to an investment scam.
What happened
Miss G has explained that in 2021 she made the following payments from her HSBC 
account, using her debit card, to fund what she thought was a legitimate investment with 
Malaikah Raja/Rod Market.
Transaction number Date Merchant Amount (£)
1 29 March 2021 Moonpay 5,228.29
2 08 April 2021 www.binance.com 10,000
3 08 April 2021 www.binance.com 10,000
4 09 April 2021 www.binance.com 10,550
Total 35,778.29
When Miss G subsequently got in touch with HSBC to explain shed been scammed, HSBC 
didnt reimburse Miss Gs lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Miss G referred her complaint 
about HSBC to this service. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Miss G and HSBC my provisional decision in November 2022 explaining why I was 
minded to partially uphold this complaint and the redress I considered appropriate. Now that 
both parties have replied to my provisional decision, and Ive had the opportunity to review 
the case again, including the responses to my provisional decision, Im now ready to explain 
my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G has made detailed submissions in relation to her complaint. Ive read and considered 
everything that shes sent in. But I wont be responding in similar detail. So if I dont mention 
a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. 
Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Ive reached the same conclusions as explained in my provisional decision, and for 
materially the same reasons. Ive explained my reasons again below. 
Recovery
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect HSBC to have done anything 
further until Miss G notified it of the scam. Then, because these were debit card payments, 
the only potential avenue for potential recovery of the payments would have been through 
the chargeback scheme.
However, Miss G made the payments from her HSBC debit card to Moonpay and Binance 
(and not directly to Malaikah Raja/Rod Market). This means the merchants here, for 
chargeback purposes, were Moonpay and Binance (and not Malaikah Raja/Rod Market). 
Moonpay and Binance legitimately provided the services intended (which was the purchase 
of cryptocurrency and then moving it onto a wallet of Miss Gs choosing). The subsequent 
transfer of the cryptocurrency onto Malaikah Raja/Rod Market would not give rise to a valid 
chargeback claim through HSBC. So I dont think these payments were recoverable through 
HSBC once they had been made.
Prevention
Having decided the above, I can only uphold this complaint if I think HSBC reasonably ought 
to have prevented some or all of Miss Gs payments to Moonpay and Binance in the first 
place  therefore preventing her loss or part of it.
Its common ground that Miss G authorised the scam payments in question here. She was 
tricked by the scammer into instructing HSBC to make the payments. I accept these were 
authorised payments even though Miss G was tricked. So although she didnt intend the 
money to go to a scammer, Miss G is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good
industry practice at the time in many previous decisions published on our website.
The first payment
I dont think the investigators assessment on this was unreasonable. This payment was 
higher than Miss Gs usual spend from her account. But there is a balance to be struck. 
Banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. And 
here, whilst the payment was for over £5,000, it was a single payment to a legitimate crypto 
exchange. If HSBC had sent a text message (or similar) to Miss G to confirm she had 
requested the payment, this wouldnt have prevented the scam since Miss G did request the 
payment (for what she thought would be a legitimate investment). And Im not sufficiently 
persuaded I can reasonably say HSBC ought to have been obliged to have gone further than 
this and spoken to Miss G about this payment instruction before it allowed it through (which, 
in my view, would have been the only way Miss Gs loss of this payment to the scam might have been avoided). So Im not persuaded it would be fair to hold HSBC responsible for the 
loss of this payment.
The second payment
Again, I dont think the investigators assessment was unreasonable. I understand that 
immediately before this payment, Miss G instructed a higher debit card payment for £20,500 
to Binance that was declined. In any event, this second payment (the £10,000) was for a 
substantial amount. And Im satisfied taken by itself (and/or in conjunction with the first 
payment), this payment instruction was sufficiently unusual and uncharacteristic, such that, 
in order to meet its obligations summarised above, HSBC reasonably ought to have called 
and spoken to Miss G before allowing this payment through, to check everything was in 
order, to protect her against the risk of financial harm. 
During such a conversation with Miss G, I would reasonably expect HSBC to have asked her 
who the payment was for, what it was for, and for basic surrounding context, and to have 
then proceeded appropriately from there with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential 
fraud or scam. Ive not seen evidence that satisfies me HSBC did this, in circumstances 
where I think it should have.
I cant be certain  if HSBC had done this as I think it reasonably ought to have  whether 
this would have made a difference. Where I cant be certain about something like this, I need 
to make my decision based on the balance of probabilities  in other words, based on what I 
think most likely would have happened, bearing in mind all the available evidence. And here, 
I think if HSBC had appropriately spoken to Miss G before allowing this payment through, it 
most likely would have made a difference. I say this because when Miss G made the first 
payment (to Moonpay), she thought that was going to be the only payment she needed to 
make for the investment. She was then told she had to upgrade her account by depositing 
a further £30,000 (which would explain payment two to four). Like our investigator, I think 
Miss Gs explanation for the reason for payment two therefore reasonably ought to have 
raised concerns to HSBC, since this is a known pattern for investment scams involving 
crypto.
There was information in the public domain  which HSBC ought to well have known, even if 
a lay consumer wouldnt  about the very high risks associated with crypto trading, including 
many warnings of potential fraud. For example, the FCA and Action Fraud published 
warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. Regulated businesses ought reasonably 
to take notice of such insight. And by the time Miss G made this payment, cryptocurrency 
scams had risen greatly in frequency and its reasonable to conclude that banks, such as 
HSBC, had had time to digest these warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and 
prevent this type of fraud.
Although I think its fair to say Miss G undertook a fair amount of due diligence before 
deciding to invest with Malaikah Raja/Rod Market, I think HSBC, if appropriate after referring 
internally for advice, really ought to have been able to impress upon Miss G the very high 
risk she was being scammed and the reasons why. And I think if HSBC had done this in the 
way Id reasonably expect it to have, its most likely Miss G would have then realised the risk 
of continuing with the payments was too high to accept. 
It follows that I think Miss G wouldnt then have proceeded with payment two, nor payments 
three and four.
Ive thought about whether Miss G should bear some responsibility for this loss by way of 
contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). I dont think its 
unfair to say Miss G wasnt as careful with these payments as she reasonably ought to have been. She did undertake some due diligence  but at the point she was asked for a further 
£30,000, I think she reasonably ought to have had some concerns  but she proceeded 
anyway. Im satisfied in these circumstances that there should be a 20% reduction to the 
compensation payable for the loss of payments two to four, to reflect Miss Gs contribution to 
the loss of those payments.
Putting things right
It follows that I think HSBC should pay Miss G £24,440 (80% of payments two to four). It 
should also pay Miss G interest on that amount from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement calculated at 8% simple per year, to compensate Miss G for the period she has 
been deprived of this money.
I understand the experience has caused Miss G distress and inconvenience. And I am 
naturally sympathetic in cases like this where someone is cruelly scammed out of money, 
and there is an emotional impact too. However, I am mindful that the scammer was 
ultimately the root cause here. And whilst I have concluded HSBC most likely could have 
prevented payments two to four, as Ive explained I also think a 20% reduction to the 
compensation due to contributory negligence is appropriate. Bearing all of this in mind, 
overall Im satisfied the award I have set out here represents a fair outcome to this case, so I 
dont make an additional award for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and I direct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Miss G £24,440 plus interest calculated at 8% simple per year 
from the date of loss to the date of settlement. If HSBC deducts tax in relation to the interest 
element of the award, it should provide Miss G with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman