DRN-2376244
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited have increased the cost of her whole 
of life policy due to her age and that this isnt explained in her policy documents. She also 
says she hasnt received her annual review letters from Aviva. 
Mrs T is being represented by her financial advisor, but for ease Ill refer to Mrs T throughout 
the decision. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the reason whole of life 
policies are reviewed is because no one knows how long Mrs T would live for at the point of 
sale. He felt Aviva had only provided estimates of the potential costs of the policy on her 
personal illustration until she was 90 years old, but that these costs are subject to change. 
He added that he didnt think Aviva had treated Mrs T unfairly by not explaining the future 
costs of the policy more thoroughly in her personal illustration and the key features 
document (KFD). 
The investigator was satisfied Aviva had correctly addressed a policy review letter, dated 
November 2019, and previous review letters to Mrs Ts financial advisor in line with the 
instructions on its system.
Mrs T disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman review. She said the policy illustration 
provided by Aviva says life cover and premiums would be sustainable up to the age of 90 if 
the investment growth met expectations  like it was in the latest review in January 2020. If 
this isnt the case, Mrs T feels the illustration Aviva provided is misleading. And Aviva has 
unfairly increased the cost of her policy before she was 90 years old. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs T feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Mrs Ts premium increasing 
The KFD and personal illustration are there to briefly explain what the aim of the policy is 
and how it works. The KFD says it may be necessary to increase the contributions Mrs T 
makes in the future to maintain her chosen level of protection. It also mentions the 
performance of the fund and deductions Aviva makes for investment management and 
providing protection can lead to higher contributions in the future. 
The personal illustration shows examples of how much growth the investments would need 
to maintain Mrs Ts chosen level of cover. It says growth between 4-8% would be enough to 
maintain her chosen level of cover until the age of 90. And that they assume the current level 
of charges (in 2001) continue throughout. This document also goes on to explain that the 
figures are examples only and are only valid until November 2001.
Having reviewed both documents carefully and Avivas explanations of the costs of the 
policy, Im satisfied Mrs T hasnt been misled or treated unfairly. They show some examples 
of growth rates but also explain these are only examples. So, Im satisfied the personal 
illustration and KFD are consistent and go into enough detail to explain how the policy 
works. For a full explanation of how the policy works Mrs T also had the terms and 
conditions. 
According to the terms and conditions this policy is reviewed on a yearly basis after Mrs T is 
70 years old. They also mention that the cost of cover will vary depending on the age of the 
life assured and on Avivas mortality and morbidity assumptions at the time. Aviva says the 
policys mortality charges increase in line with Mrs Ts advancing age. 
Following the 2019 review, its calculations showed the mortality charge on the higher sum 
assured for Mrs Ts policy was £820.14 per month and this would increase throughout 2020. 
It said with mortality charges increasing and the cost of cover being significantly higher than 
the amount Mrs T was paying in premiums (£4,200 annually in 2018), the value of the fund 
was decreasing. So, Im satisfied Aviva has acted within the terms and conditions of the 
policy and has reasonably made her aware of the optional increase in her premium to 
£5,590.65 in order to maintain her level of cover.  
I note Mrs T feels the cost of life cover is decreasing and Aviva should be able to provide 
more accurate figures and costings at the outset. But I dont agree. Mrs Ts policy and similar 
whole of life policies are reviewed regularly because it isnt possible to know exactly how 
much the policy will cost to maintain the level of cover that was agreed at the point of sale. 
Which is why it mentioned in the KFD and personal illustration that costs can rise over time.
 
Correspondence not being received
Ive checked the policy review letters which Mrs T says werent received. When reviewing 
complaints about not receiving information I need to be satisfied they were sent and correctly 
addressed. Im satisfied they were sent and correctly addressed in both 2018 and 2019. I 
believe postal delays are the most likely reason for the review letters not being received. 
Aviva has apologised for any inconvenience this has caused and confirmed it will now send 
these reviews to Mrs T. I think thats a fair response in the circumstances. 
So, Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Mark DobsonOmbudsman