DRN-3946225
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly recorded a hard credit search on his 
credit file. Mr P also complains that HSBC failed to follow up and act on his requests to 
delete the credit search. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr P applied for a bank account switch with HSBC and it recorded a hard 
credit search on his credit file. The switch was completed in March 2021 and another hard 
credit search was recorded on Mr Ps credit file by HSBC. Mr P contacted HSBC a short time 
later and raised the additional credit search it recorded. HSBC noted Mr Ps concerns and 
agreed to remove its second search entry but failed to follow up with the credit reference 
agencies. 
Mr Ps told us he tried to obtain finance on a vehicle in May/June 2021 but was offered a 
higher rate than expected. Mr Ps advised that the finance provider mentioned a hard credit 
check as the reason for its decision to offer a higher rate. As a result, Mr P used funds form 
his savings and credit cards. 
In July 2021 Mr P says he contacted HSBC and asked it to amend his credit file again and 
raise a complaint. But no complaint was raised. 
In February 2022 Mr P contacted HSBC again and raised a complaint. HSBC sent Mr P a 
final response in March 2022 and apologised for the delay in removing the second hard 
credit search from his credit file. HSBC confirmed it had contacted the credit reference 
agencies and that the amendment would take between six and eight weeks to complete. 
HSBC also offered Mr P £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought HSBC had dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr P asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
HSBCs notes show Mr P first raised the second hard credit search with it around the time 
his account switch went through in March 2021. HSBCs notes show Mr P contacted it again 
in July 2021, although they dont say why. But I accept what Mr Ps told us and that he 
raised the second hard credit search with HSBC after his account was opened. HSBC has 
confirmed it started the process of amending Mr Ps credit file but failed to take the follow up 
action. And the systems notes Ive seen show HSBC recorded Mr Ps concerns but didnt 
arrange to amend his credit file until he contacted it again in 2022. I agree with Mr P that the 
service he received shouldve been better. And I also agree that there was no clear reason 
for HSBC to record a second hard credit search on Mr Ps credit file. 
Mr Ps told us that financing costs for a vehicle was unfairly increased as a result of the hard 
credit search. Mr Ps pointed to a section of a credit reference agencys website that says 
lots of credit searches in a short period of time can impact the ability to secure further credit. 
Ive considered whether its reasonable to say Mr Ps borrowing costs were increased as a 
direct result of HSBCs second hard credit search. 
Whilst I note Mr Ps comments, I think its fair to say that the information hes supplied from 
the credit reference agency says lots of credit searches in a short space of time may have 
an impact. But, here, HSBC recorded two hard credit searches, one too many. As Ive said 
above, I accept it was wrong for HSBC to record its second hard credit search, but I havent 
seen clear evidence that it directly led to a loss for Mr P by way of higher than expected 
financing costs. 
HSBC failed to amend Mr Ps credit file until he complained again in February 2022. I agree 
with Mr P that it took too long for HSBC to deal with the situation. HSBCs apologised to 
Mr P for the delay and agreed a settlement of £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but Im satisfied the £200 settlement agreed reflects 
the level of distress and inconvenience caused and is a fair way to resolve his complaint.
 
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman