DRN-3043159
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him PPI with a personal 
loan.
  
What happened
Mr P took out the PPI at the same time as applying for the personal loan by post in 1999. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ps complaint. Nationwide disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Looking at the loan application form, there was a separate section for PPI containing yes 
and no boxes to either select or decline the policy. Mr P has ticked the yes box to request 
PPI. Overall, I consider that Mr P chose to take out the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to.
As this was a postal sale, Mr P didnt receive any advice from Nationwide about taking out 
the policy. As it was a non-advised sale, Nationwide didnt need to ensure that the policy met 
Mr Ps needs. But Nationwide did need to provide enough information for Mr P to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
In order to claim for unemployment under the policy, a policyholder had to be out of work 
and registered as unemployed with the Employment Service. The policy defines employment 
as any paid work of at least 16 hours per week. This information would have been of 
interest to Mr P as he has told us that he had two jobs at the point of sale.
Mr P had provided details of his main job on the loan application form but there was only 
space to provide details of one job. However, next to other regular income Mr P has written 
£280. Mr P has been consistent throughout his complaint about having two jobs and, based 
on the available evidence, Im persuaded that was the case.
Nationwide accepts that a take home salary of £280 could equate to a job of 16 hours or 
more based on the minimum wage in 1999. However, although Mr P has been consistent 
about having two jobs, he has been less consistent about how many hours he was working 
in his second job. He originally said that he was working less than 16 hours, then he said 
that he was working 20 hours per week and then finally that he was working 16 hours per 
week. Nationwide has questioned why Mr Ps recollection should have changed and that that 
in itself warranted further investigation. Due to the passage of time, Mr P hasnt been able to 
provide any evidence of his second job. However, he did provide some further details by 
stating that he mainly worked Monday to Friday evenings. Mr P has a representative 
assisting him to make his complaint. The wording on the complaint questionnaire about one 
job being more than 16 hours a week and one less than 16 hours is fairly typical of the sort 
of wording we see from the representative when its client has two jobs. When this service 
asked for specific information from Mr P himself, he came back with a different answer. I 
dont know why Mr P firstly said he worked 20 hours a week and then that he worked 16 
hours a week, but its not surprising if his recollection is not exact in relation to events from 
1999. Overall, based on all of the available information, I consider it most likely that Mr P 
was working in each of his jobs for at least 16 hours per week.
Therefore, if Mr P had lost his main job, he would still have been considered to be employed 
under the policy terms and therefore would not have been able to make a successful claim 
for unemployment. He would only have been able to claim if he had been made redundant 
from both jobs at the same time, which was an unlikely event. I dont think that Mr P would 
have taken out the policy if he had understood this to be the case, because he would have 
realized that his need for the policy was reduced and would not have found it value for 
money in his particular circumstances.
It follows that I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Putting things right
Mr P borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been. He 
paid more than he should have each month and it cost more to repay the loan than it would 
have. So Mr P needs to be put in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI and get back the extra he paid.
So Nationwide should:
Work out and pay Mr P the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would have paid without PPI.
Work out and pay Mr P the difference between what it cost him to pay off the loan 
and what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr P paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount owed to him. It can also deduct any amounts it 
might have already paid regarding commission and profit share.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to pay 
fair compensation as detailed above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman