DRN-3366446
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P complains that Best Practice IFA Group Limited gave them 
poor advice when taking out an immediate care needs annuity.
The firm who gave advice in this case is an appointed representative of Best 
Practice and Best Practice is responsible for the actions of that firm. So, Ill 
refer to Best Practice throughout this decision.
Mrs H represents the estate in bringing this complaint. So, all actions and 
comments will be recorded as being made directly by Mrs H.
What happened
In early March 2018, Mrs H got in touch with Best Practice, initially with a view to 
releasing funds from Mrs Ps investments to pay for care home fees. Best 
Practice explained it might be better to phase withdrawals rather than take one 
lump sum. Mrs H said she was concerned that Mrs Ps funds would run out, as 
care home fees were likely to increase by 8% that year (although I understand the 
care home had agreed to cap any increases at 5% if an immediate care annuity 
was in place). At that time, fees were costing almost £65,000 a year whereas Mrs 
Ps income from pensions and allowances was shy of £23,000 a year.
Mrs H asked Best Practice to get immediate care annuity quotes as it had done a 
couple of years before. She thought that would give them the security of knowing 
that fees were taken care of for the rest of Mrs Ps life. Best Practice told Mrs H 
that it would have to get new quotes and then go through the same underwriting 
process with the doctor and the care home as it did in 2016. According to Best 
Practices notes, Mrs H said shed need the capital by May 2018.
Best Practice called Mrs H to discuss the annuity application. It said it had asked 
for quotes with and without capital protection. In an email Best Practice told Mrs 
H I will complete pages 4 and 5...please change yes to no regarding wanting to 
see the medical report on page 11 as it will take months to process. You can see 
the report any time after we have the quotes if you speak to the doctor. Mrs H 
responded by email a little later saying Ive made the changes. Ill pop them in 
the post.
Best Practice asked two providers for quotes for an immediate care annuity. It 
set out the two quotes for comparison purposes in its care fees planning 
report dated 17 May 2018.
These quotes included the premium for 50% capital protection and no capital 
protection. The cheaper of the two, (with the higher annuity rate), was from a 
provider Ill refer to as A. It quoted:
Annual Income
£43,000No capital protection 50% capital protection
Premium for 
income with no 
escalation£128,111 £134,124
Premium for 
income with 5% 
escalation£139,799 £146,496
Best Practice also noted in its report that Mrs Hs financial objectives (on 
Mrs Ps behalf) were:
to plan for the future to ensure that her mother had sufficient funds to 
meet her long-term care home costs;
to understand the care fee planning options available to meet the income shortfall;
if she decided to invest on her mothers behalf, Mrs H wanted the 
investments to offer simple administration; be tax efficient and for 
the funds to be proactively managed in line with an appropriate 
attitude to risk; and
have access to money in deposit accounts for emergency short term needs.
Best Practice categorised Mrs Ps attitude to risk as cautious and noted that 
she had a capacity for loss based on level 3 of a risk profile (low-medium). It 
then set out a number of different options to help Mrs H plug the funding gap 
that existed, and the feasibility of each. In summary, Best Practice indicated 
that Mrs H could use Mrs Ps current investments to provide income drawdown 
to meet her care home costs. But it pointed out that if those funds depleted, 
even if the local authority stepped in to help, it rarely covers full fees. So, it felt 
there may still be a gap in funding. Whereas an immediate care annuity would 
provide guaranteed and secure income for the rest of Mrs Ps life and still 
leave a lump sum behind for her beneficiaries. Cash savings could also be 
retained in an instant access account, to allow for emergencies, whilst 
continuing to actively invest the remaining funds in a cautious portfolio in line 
with their established attitude to risk. Each year, funds could be transferred to 
an ISA to improve the tax efficiency.
Best Practice explained in more detail the advantages and disadvantages of 
an immediate care annuity. These included:
Advantages Disadvantages
the policy provides a guaranteed income for the 
remaining lifetime of the annuitantthe annuitant may not survive long enough to 
obtain good value from the contract
capital protection (of a percentage up to 75%) 
can be built into the contract for a limited time to 
ensure a proportion of the original lump sum 
premium is safeguarded in the event of early 
deaththe estate will be reduced immediately as a 
result of the capital used to purchase the 
annuity
Under the heading cancellation rights the adviser noted the option of 
cancelling a product within 30 days if Mrs H changed her mind.
It also included its fees for the provision of the report and outlined what 
theyd be if their advice led to a new financial product being taken out.
Mrs H met Best Practice in May 2018 to discuss the report. She decided to 
take out the annuity with A (using some capital from Mrs Ps investments) without capital protection at a premium of £139,799. The annuity took effect 
from 31 May 2018 and provided an immediate care benefit of £3,584 each 
month. Payments of a similar amount were expected to be paid directly to the 
care home each month. Best Practice wrote to Mrs H on 7 June 2018 
confirming its recommendations and her decision to take out the annuity.
Very sadly, Mrs P died on 17 July 2018.
Mrs H later complained to Best Practice about the bad financial advice shed 
received. She said that, having later seen the doctors report, it included key 
omissions, relating to her mothers health which would have influenced her 
decision whether to go ahead with the annuity. She said Best Practice had 
since confirmed the annuity would have been more expensive if the conditions 
had been mentioned (it denies that). Mrs H said she felt she wasnt presented 
with the relevant facts and relied on a professional who should have picked up 
on the importance of seeing the doctors report given her mothers poor health 
at the time.
Best Practice said it was satisfied it made a suitable and appropriate 
recommendation, taking account of the objectives and stated aims. It didnt 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint and thought the policy was underwritten fairly and 
in good faith. Amongst its other comments, it said:
Mrs H was acting with the benefit of hindsight. Even if she had the 
doctors report, it seemed unlikely shed have highlighted the fact that 
other conditions hadnt been mentioned, as their significance wouldnt 
have been known to anyone at the time.
It didnt know if there was or wasnt a correlation between the omitted 
conditions and the subsequent cause of death. But it thought an 
assertion was being made without the benefit of a professional medical 
opinion.
Even if the omitted conditions had been mentioned and suggested a 
worse medical prognosis, it wouldnt have made the annuity more 
expensive. In general terms the longer the insured was more likely to 
live the more costly the policy. In any event, it thought concerns about 
the accuracy of the report should be referred to the doctor who wrote it.
Mrs H complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into things 
and upheld the complaint. He said it wasnt clear why, if the immediate care 
annuity wasnt suitable in 2016, it suddenly became suitable in 2018. He didnt 
think there was a need to arrange the annuity so quickly or that it was 
appropriate for the adviser to suggest Mrs H didnt need to wait for sight of the 
medical report. He felt that if shed waited until afterwards, the time taken 
would have been similar. He thought Best Practices advice was vague, 
especially as there was no explanation why providing capital protection was not 
a suitable option, given that the difference to the premium wasnt significant. 
The investigator felt that Mrs P would have continued to invest in her previous 
investment portfolio. And the amount withdrawn to help buy the annuity would 
still have been available to cover ongoing fees. So, to put things right, he 
recommended Best Practice calculate the notional value of Mrs Ps 
investments as at 17 July 2018 (the day she died) and compare it to the actual 
value to calculate any financial loss. He said it should pay that amount together 
with 8% interest simple for the deprivation of use of funds from 18 July 2018 to 
the date of settlement.
Best Practice disagreed with our investigators assessment and made a number of detailed points, some of which are similar to those it made in 
response to Mrs Hs complaint.
Amongst other things it said:
It didnt believe Mrs H wouldnt have taken out the annuity even if the doctors 
report had included other information. The medical risk was underwritten by the 
insurers on terms they were willing to accept. And Mrs H was happy to proceed on 
that basis. 
Mrs H hadnt declared the other medical conditions to the insurers.
It disagreed about there not being a need to arrange the annuity quickly. 
It mentioned the impending care home fee rise and said Mrs H dictated 
the pace about how quickly things should happen.
It understood that Mrs Ps health deteriorated quickly after the policy 
was taken out. And, if Mrs H thought there was a significant chance of 
her life expectancy being cut short, she could have used the cooling off 
period to cancel the policy.
It disputed the investigators suggestion that it hadnt given a positive 
recommendation in respect of the annuity. It felt it was clear from the 
sales process and evidence that the information presented was in the 
rounds sufficiently balanced and clear.
As Best Practice didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I sent Best Practice and Mrs H my provisional findings on 3 March 2022. Ive attached the 
relevant extracts below:
I fully appreciate that the events leading to this complaint are incredibly sensitive. 
Mrs Hs specific complaint is that Best Practices advice was poor because it should have 
told her to wait for the doctors report, which A relied on when underwriting the annuity.
Mrs H now feels the adviser should have understood the importance of her 
seeing the report beforehand to help her make an informed decision. And, she 
believes that, had she waited, the annuity probably wouldnt have been set up, 
not least due to the relatively short time between the annuity being put in place 
and her mother sadly dying. Mrs H is seeking compensation for the flawed 
financial advice she was given.
I can appreciate, particularly with the benefit of hindsight, why Mrs H thinks it 
was remiss of Best Practice not to insist she wait for the doctors report before 
pressing ahead with the annuity quotes and subsequent application. And I 
accept that, had she waited, its possible (given the apparent turnaround times 
for medical reports at the time), the annuity may not have been taken out before 
Mrs P sadly died. In those circumstances, Mrs Ps estate may well have been 
better off by almost £140,000. But I think its worth explaining here that this 
complaint is brought on behalf of Mrs P. So, my decision is focused on whether 
Best Practice acted in line with Mrs Ps best interests and not her estates.
That involves taking account of the obligations the regulator places on advisers. 
Those include (amongst other things) acting with integrity; care and ensuring 
that any advice they give is suitable and meets their clients objectives. Overall, 
they need to be satisfied that their advice is in the clients best interests.And for reasons that Ill go on to explain, after careful consideration, I think Best 
Practice did give suitable advice that was in Mrs Ps best interests. So, Im 
intending to reach a different view to our investigator. I know that this will likely 
come as really disappointing news to Mrs H and the estate and I dont 
underestimate their strength of feeling about this matter. But I hope my detailed 
findings below will help to explain why Im intending to come to this decision.
Part and parcel of fulfilling their responsibilities is for an adviser to make sure 
they understand their clients needs and aims. Typically, thats in the form of a 
fact-find meeting. Theyll likely want to know and record details about their 
current health; why they want to invest; their investment experience; attitude to 
risk and capacity for loss (amongst other things).
It was for Mrs H to pass on relevant details about her mother as part of that 
process. She was clearly concerned about the possibility of her mothers funds 
running out if they continued to fund her care in the same manner as before. And 
I can see that Best Practice recorded that as her primary investment aim. So, any 
advice Best Practice gave needed to have that and her other aims in mind. Im 
mindful that the fact Mrs H wanted to explore long term funding options, does 
tend to suggest that she didnt have any immediate concerns about Mrs Ps 
deteriorating health. Nevertheless, Best Practice still needed to ask about and 
record the relevant health information. Thats particularly appropriate in the case 
of an immediate care annuity. Best Practice isnt a medical professional, so it 
needed to make sure the provider had the necessary detail (along with a doctors 
report) to properly assess and underwrite the annuity. Based on its discussion 
with Mrs H, Best Practice recorded Mrs Ps health conditions as Alzheimers and 
arthritis and said she was unable to live independently.
Was Best Practice right to tell Mrs H not to wait for the doctors report?
Best Practice then agreed to look into different options  one of which was to seek 
quotes for immediate care annuities. It sent off an application on Mrs Hs behalf 
and told her she neednt wait for a doctors report before getting quotes. As Ive 
mentioned, Mrs H thinks that advice was flawed.
I appreciate the point that Mrs H makes. And, as I said earlier, knowing the 
situation now, I accept things might have been different had they waited for the 
report. But Im not persuaded that means Best Practice did anything wrong or is 
responsible for the financial loss they feel theyve now suffered. I say that 
because whilst Best Practice did suggest pressing ahead in asking for quotes, it 
also said Mrs H could ask to see the report afterwards if she wanted to. So, I dont 
agree that amounts to it denying her the opportunity to see the report. I think it 
was simply saying that it neednt hold up the requesting of quotes. 
Mrs H has also suggested that the question was changed to no (about asking for 
the medical report) without her initialling the changes. That gives the impression 
that the form was altered without Mrs Hs knowledge or agreement. But I dont 
think thats what happened. Ive seen an email between Mrs H and Best Practice 
in which it suggests how Mrs H should answer the question (by saying no). And 
Mrs H then confirms that shes sent the form back. That suggests to me that shed 
endorsed the information on the form. I also need to bear in mind that during the 
fact find, Mrs H hadnt mentioned any other medical conditions, or given Best 
Practice cause to think it might have been preferable to await the report before 
moving to the next stage.
I think Mrs H made it pretty clear that there was a fairly pressing need to discuss 
and decide on longer term funding options. Best Practice may also have been 
thinking about the offer that was on the table from the care home about potentially capping fees if an immediate care annuity was in place. And Im mindful that, until 
such time as she had quotes, Mrs Hs unlikely to have known whether an annuity 
was even a potentially viable option. Its entirely possible shed have decided 
costs were prohibitive and decided not to go ahead. And in those circumstances, 
shed have obtained a medical report needlessly and would then still have had to 
explore other options for bridging the funding gap later on. Taking particular 
account of the fact that Mrs H hadnt highlighted any immediate medical concerns 
and the fact that Best Practice explained Mrs H was free to ask to see the report 
later on, I dont think it acted unreasonably in these particular circumstances. And 
Ive seen no evidence that Mrs H asked to see the doctors report once shed 
received the quotes and before the annuity was put in place. Its entirely possible 
that, at the time, she thought getting the annuity in place was more important.
Mrs H now says that having the report upfront would have influenced her 
decision and helped her to make a more informed decision. If Ive understood 
her correctly, I think the point shes making is that, if shed seen the doctors 
report beforehand, she would have noticed the omissions surrounding the 
other conditions Mrs P had suffered from (which Mrs H was clearly already 
aware of and which she now believes might have been related to her 
eventual cause of death). And she may well have highlighted those 
omissions to the doctor and/or the annuity provider. Apart from the fact thats 
likely to have taken time to resolve (which might have meant the annuity 
wasnt in place when Mrs P sadly died) Mrs H is under the impression that 
the cost of the annuity would have become more expensive. So, she doesnt 
think shed have gone ahead in that event. 
But thats not my understanding of how this type of policy works and Best Practice 
has made a similar point. It also says A confirmed the premium possibly would 
have been cheaper. I havent seen As response. And whilst I appreciate that it too 
is working with the benefit of hindsight, it doesnt seem implausible. I say that 
because when underwriting the policy, if A knew there were other conditions that 
may shorten life expectancy, so as to mean that it might end up paying immediate 
care benefits for a shorter period than it first thought, I think thats more likely to 
have made the premium cheaper rather than more expensive. As the risk its 
taking on is effectively reducing not increasing.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded by Mrs Hs position. Firstly, 
she hadnt indicated she had any immediate concerns about Mrs Ps health, 
otherwise it seems reasonable to assume shed have raised them during the fact 
find. But, as Ive also said, it seems unlikely shed have been looking into an 
annuity in those circumstances. If the medical report had indicated that Mrs P had 
a worsening condition than Mrs H had first believed, I might have been more 
inclined to agree with the point she makes. But it didnt. 
As I understand it, the medical professional commented on similar health issues 
to those that Mrs H had already highlighted. And Best Practice makes the added 
point thats despite them having prepared the report within a relatively short time 
of treating Mrs P. In other words, its suggestion seems to be that the medical 
professional probably didnt think the additional conditions were relevant to the 
annuity application. And that might account for why Mrs H hadnt raised them 
either. So, it doesnt seem plausible to me that Mrs H would wait to receive a 
medical report, before potentially highlighting omissions that she thought were 
relevant, but hadnt mentioned before. I think its more likely that even if shed 
waited for the medical report, Mrs H would have gone ahead in arranging the 
annuity given the fairly pressing need to get alternative funding arrangements in 
place. Especially if that meant taking up the care homes offer of a cap in fee increases. 
So, in these circumstances, I cant fairly say that Mrs P was disadvantaged by 
Best Practices suggestion not to wait for the medical report. And so, it follows 
that I dont think its responsible for the financial loss that the estate has referred 
to.
Was Best Practices overall advice suitable?
Taking account of Mrs Ps wider objectives (which Mrs H expressed on her 
behalf) I think it was.
Mrs H was clearly looking for stability in how Mrs Ps care funding was provided. 
Drawing down on her investments didnt seem appropriate given the risk of funds 
running out. And whilst she could have continued to invest the majority of funds, 
its unlikely to have sufficiently plugged the income gap given Mrs Ps cautious 
attitude to investment. Plus, it would have been subject to added investment risk 
if the whole amount was invested. So, I think, realistically, taking out an 
immediate care annuity seemed the most suitable way to meet Mrs Ps 
investment needs. 
Im also satisfied that Best Practice pointed out the pros and cons of an 
immediate care annuity  including the risk of an annuitant dying earlier than 
expected, meaning the contract wouldnt provide good value. And it advised Mrs 
H of the option to protect some of the capital for a limited time to safeguard 
against circumstances such as that. Theres nothing to indicate that Mrs H had 
any cause to think Mrs Ps health was significantly deteriorating at that time. So, 
that may account for why Mrs H chose not to add capital protection. Although she 
indicated to our investigator that her decision may have been driven by the 
additional cost. And I accept there was also an added risk of her paying an 
additional premium for something she didnt need.
Im satisfied Best Practices recommendations met Mrs Ps other aims too. As I 
understand it there were particular tax efficiencies by the immediate care benefits 
being paid directly to the care home. And Mrs H had suggested that Mrs P was 
interested in tax efficient investments. It also recommended that by continuing to 
invest the remaining funds in a cautious portfolio (in line with her attitude to risk) 
Mrs P still had the possibility of making an income on her other investments. With 
other tax benefits being realised by moving money to an ISA each year. And, 
shed still have access to emergency funds by holding them in an instant access 
account. So, in summary, Im satisfied that Best Practices advice met the 
immediate and longer term aims and was in their clients best interests.
On that basis, Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Best Practice nor Mrs H have made further comments nor given me additional 
information to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither Best Practice nor Mrs H has given me new information to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman