DRN-3573215
The complaint
Mr M has complained about how Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) handled a
Covid-related payment deferral on his personal loan and about the level of service provided.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In September 2020 Mr M contacted Nationwide asking for a Covid-related payment 
deferral on his loan. Mr M was told his request had been approved and payments for 
£1 a month would be taken in October and November 2020. I find this was fair and 
reasonable as Mr M asked for some support while his income was impacted by the 
pandemic, and he got it.
In October 2020 Mr M contacted Nationwide as a £1 payment hadnt been taken. He 
was told he wasnt in a payment deferral as he hadnt been eligible for one. This was 
a mistake. Following a complaint from Mr M Nationwide eventually, in December 
2020, accepted its error. However, by this time Mr M had made a contractual 
repayment (£611.25) which he would have preferred not to. Nationwide arranged to 
amend Mr Ms credit file and offered him £100 compensation, in total. I find this was 
fair and reasonable as it put Mr M in the position he should have been in and went 
some way to recognising the impact the mistake had on Mr M, although I dont find 
the compensation quite sufficient.
At this point Mr Ms loan was supposed to be reworked. This was to clear the arrears 
and allow for lower repayments by extending the loan term, but this didnt happen 
until it was chased up by Mr M. So Nationwide let Mr M down again here. In January 
2021 Nationwide recognised its mistake, reworked the loan and offered Mr M a 
further £20 compensation. I find the action to rework the loan appropriate but 
consider the compensation insufficient.
Mr M has concerns about how much hes been asked to repay under his reworked 
loan. The total amount repayable on Mr Ms original loan was £22,005, to be repaid 
over 36 months at £611.25 a month. This is on the assumption repayments are made 
on time and in full. As interest is calculated daily on the outstanding balance, any 
missed or reduced repayments result in more interest becoming payable. I would add 
here that payment deferrals dont suspend interest.
When Mr M spoke to Nationwide on 9 December 2020, he was told the new loan 
would be repaid over 36 months at £431.11 a month. But by the time the loan had 
been reworked on 20 January 2021 it was to be repaid over 36 months at £442.79 a 
month. Mr M considers Nationwides delay has therefore led to him being asked to 
pay more.
My understanding is the difference comes from the outstanding balance differing 
between when the December 2020 quote was generated, and when the reworked 
loan was completed. This is because between those two dates no repayments were 
made to the account, but interest still accrued on the outstanding balance  this 
included £163.77 of interest on 21 December 2020 and £165.96 of interest on 20 
January 2021. This meant when the loan was reworked the outstanding balance was 
higher, and that balance was also subject to interest, meaning the total amount 
repayable in January 2021 would be higher than it would have been in December 
2020. This, in turn, meant the repayments needed to be higher so as not to increase 
the loan term.
Had the loan been reworked in December 2020 as it should have been, Mr M would 
have needed to make a repayment in January 2021. However, in part because of this 
delay Mr M didnt make a repayment then. This is something I consider he likely 
found helpful at this financially challenging time. So despite Mr M being asked to 
repay more, there is a reason for this. Im satisfied what hes being asked to pay is an 
accurate reflection of the outstanding balance and how this type of loan operates. As 
the loan is now running well, and in light of the wider circumstances, I consider it 
would be hassle-some (and disproportionate) to both parties to retrospectively 
change things now.
Our investigator didnt consider £120 compensation, in total, was enough given the 
impact Nationwides repeated mistakes had on Mr M at an already difficult time for 
him. He recommended Nationwide pay Mr M £200 compensation, in total. Having 
considered things in the round I dont think £200 is enough either. Mr M was given 
incorrect information on several occasions over a few months, and it was him whom 
had to act to get things put right. He also felt the need to make a fairly large 
repayment in November 2020 which he would have likely preferred not to, because 
he didnt know where things stood. This matter had an impact on his credit file which 
took some time to fix. I also note Mr M is aware a Nationwide staff member spoke 
about him in an unprofessional manner which caused him some upset. Taking all of 
this into account, I consider £350 compensation, in total, fairly and reasonably
reflects the impact Nationwides actions had on Mr M.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision to say he agreed with my intended compensation 
amount, but felt he should be refunded the interest he was charged in December 2020 and 
January 2021, plus any interest that interest will accrue over the term of the reworked loan.
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The interest Mr M accrued in December 2020 and January 2021 wasnt additional interest as 
such. Whether during the original loan period or the reworked loan period, interest accrued 
based on the outstanding balance. So I cant fairly require Nationwide to refund those 
amounts. And my view remains unchanged in that Im satisfied what hes being asked to pay 
is an accurate reflection of the outstanding balance and how this type of loan operates, and 
in that it would be hassle-some (and disproportionate) to both parties to retrospectively 
change things now.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr M £350
compensation, in total, in recognition of the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman