DRN-2946880
The complaint
Mr G complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) applied end of 
contract charges for damage to a car he returned at the end of a hire agreement.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr G entered into a three-year hire agreement for a new car with VWFS. 
Under section 9 headed Maintenance it set out the following:
9.5 You agree to return the vehicle to us at the end of the hiring period in good repair and 
conditions except for fair wear and tear (as detailed in the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association Fair Wear and Tear Guide, which we will send to you if you ask us).
If you are in breach of Term 9.5 above, we may have such work carried out as is 
reasonably necessary to restore the vehicle to a state of good repair and condition and you 
shall indemnify us against and pay us when we ask all costs and expenses we have 
incurred or will incur in respect of that work.
In January 2021 VWFS wrote to Mr G and reminded him that the lease was coming to an 
end in March and set out the arrangements for the vehicle to be returned. This letter said 
that the car would also be subject to an inspection and assessed in line with the British 
Vehicles Rental and Leasing Associations (BVRLA) guidelines on fair wear and tear. If 
damage was found outside of these guidelines, then Mr G would be charged the costs of 
repairs.
In March 2021 Mr G says that he had the car valeted before returning it in an outstanding 
condition and that the mileage was also lower than had been agreed in the hire agreement. 
The car was inspected by a third-party company on behalf of VWFS and a condition report 
was prepared together with photos of the car.
In April 2021 Mr G received an end of contract charges invoice for £900 as a number of 
dents and scratches had been noted which were considered to be beyond fair wear and 
tear. Mr G complained to VWFS about this invoice and challenged the inspection report.
VWFS reviewed all the charges imposed for the damage to the car and reduced the invoice 
to £331.20. It said there wasnt enough evidence to support some of the damage said to 
have been found but it was satisfied that the recorded damage to the cars wing, rear door 
roof rail and bumper were all outside fair wear and tear. VWFS said that the charges that 
had been raised for those areas of damage were fair and in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the hire agreement.  
Mr G was unhappy at VWFSs decision and complained to this service. He said the 
scratches on the car were minor and should be considered as fair wear and tear. Our 
investigator didnt recommend Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She said looking at the 
photos of the damage shown to the cars wing, rear door roof rail and bumper that she 
agreed these were all beyond fair wear and tear. She said VWFS had acted fairly in 
charging Mr G for these items.
Our investigator also said she didnt think VWFS had acted unreasonably when it had 
relied on the report on the condition of the car from the third-party company to first invoice 
Mr G the £900 end of contract charges. It had reviewed this when he had complained and 
removed several items, which had been fair in the circumstances.
Mr G disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said hed taken great care of the car 
while in his possession and didnt accept that the scratches shown in the report were deep. 
He said that had they been serious, then we would have had them repaired before handing 
the car back. Mr G said the car had been in outstanding condition on its return.
Mr G said that he thought the original invoice charges of £900 had been plucked out of 
the sky and said that VWFS was probably used to private companies just paying off these 
bills without challenging them.
As the parties had been unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the hire agreement set out that Mr G must return the car in a 
good condition and that any damage that exceeds fair wear and tear will be his 
responsibility. Ive seen Mr G feels he returned the car in outstanding condition however I 
note the condition report prepared by the third-party company described the cars condition 
as average. 
Ive also noted that the car was returned with a lower mileage, it was just under 3,000 miles 
fewer than that agreed in the hire agreement. However, the mileage of the car doesnt 
impact on Mr Gs responsibility to return the car in good condition. By signing the agreement, 
he had agreed to be liable for any damage found on the car when returned that was beyond 
fair wear and tear.
Mr G disputes that the scratches found on the cars wing, rear door roof rail and rear bumper 
were deep and says they should be considered as fair wear and tear. VWFS says that when 
deciding whether damage to a car is or isnt fair wear and tear it applies the BVRLA 
guidelines. And these guidelines are accepted as the industrys standard to assess any 
damage found to a car thats handed back at the end of a credit agreement.
Looking at the photos that have been supplied, I dont agree with Mr Gs assessment that 
the scratches to the cars bodywork arent deep. The scratches in the three areas charged 
for by VWFS are clearly visible, over 25mm in length and penetrate down to the metal below 
which is clearly seen. I note Mr G says he didnt see these scratches, and if he had, he 
would have had them repaired, but I cant say why he didnt see them or consider they were 
beyond fair wear and tear. I am satisfied these photos are an accurate reflection of the 
scratches found on the car and I think the damage is clear and these charges have all been 
fairly applied by VWFS. 
I appreciate Mr G was unhappy at the original invoice that was considerably higher until he 
complained. But I think VWFS acted reasonably in relying on the third-partys condition 
report when sending out the original end of contract charges to Mr G. I also disagree that 
these charges were plucked out of thin air. Looking at the photos, I think all the charges 
appear to correlate to damage found on the car, be it a scratch, dent or scuff mark. And I 
also dont think the amounts charged were excessive. But I do think that some of the photos werent clear enough to establish that the damage fell into the category of beyond fair wear 
and tear as set out in the BVRLA guidelines and so I think VWFS acted reasonably and fairly 
when it removed those items from the end of contract invoice.   
Looking at the evidence, I dont agree that the car was returned only with damage that had 
arisen from fair wear and tear. I think the final charges set out by VWFS in the end of 
contract invoice provided to Mr G of £331.20 are fair. Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman