DRN-3372319
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions that were made when he fell
victim to a safe account bank impersonation scam.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr F received a text message purporting to be from Monzo. It said there
was a £1,200 transaction to a retailer being attempted on his account. It appeared in the
thread of genuine messages Mr F had previously received from the bank. The text message
gave Mr F a phone number to call.
Mr F says that he rang the number and spoke to someone for about 20 minutes. He thinks
that he confirmed his name and his email address during the conversation but ended the call
because it didnt seem right. Mr F said the situation didnt add up because at the time he
didnt have any money in his Monzo account.
Within minutes, Mr F received a phone call. His phone records show that the incoming call
appeared to come from a genuine Monzo phone number. Mr F has told us that the caller
went through security processes with him, knew what his last genuine transaction was and
said that there had been an attempt to change details on Mr Fs account so they were
ringing to confirm whether those changes were requested by him or not. Mr F explains he
was convinced he was speaking to the genuine bank because the phone number matched
the number on the back of his card. He adds that this caller sounded very knowledgeable
and professional.
The caller convinced Mr F that all of his bank accounts were unsafe and that he needed to
move his money into his Monzo account because it could be secured. Mr F followed the
callers instructions and transferred £2,400 from his other bank into his Monzo account. Mr F
has provided a copy of his bank statement to this service which confirms this is what he did.
Unfortunately, Mr F was speaking to a fraudster that was impersonating Monzo. During this
call, Mr F gave the fraudster his personal security information, including access to a Monzo
magic link email and his PIN number.
The fraudsters told Mr F that he needed to reinstall his app to be able to reconfirm his
identity and complete the account resetting procedure. This distracted Mr F. Using the
magic link and PIN number, the fraudsters added a new device to Mr Fs profile and made a
transaction of £1,000 without Mr Fs knowledge or agreement.
Mr F explains that when he reinstalled the app and saw that a payment of £1,000 had left his
account, he panicked. The fraudster reassured him that the funds could be recovered if they
acted quickly to trace the payment. Mr F says he was told he needed to quickly make
another payment so they could work together to try and trap the culprit.
Mr F explains that the fraudster talked him through the steps to follow to make a payment of
£1,400. Mr F says that he wanted to make a much lower payment, but the fraudster told him
that a payment of £1 would not be enough to trigger the banks fraud detection systems.
Mr F recalls that the fraudster told him to move past any pop-up messages that asked him if
he was on the phone as they were meant for other kinds of situations. Mr F explains that the
fraudster told him exactly what was going to pop up just before it happened. Mr F recalls the
fraudster also told him to set the payment purpose as something else, stressing that the
situation was very time sensitive as there was only a limited window for the bank to trace the
payment. After Mr F made the payment, the call ended abruptly.
Mr F immediately called Monzo and asked to be reconnected to the person he was speaking
to. During this call, Mr F discovered hed been the victim of a scam and had lost money.
Monzo took steps to secure Mr Fs account and tried to recover the funds that had been
sent. It looked into Mr Fs scam claim but said it was unable to refund the money hed lost.
Mr F wanted to appeal and made a complaint. He said he was following instructions from
people who he believed to be the bank and the payment he made was in panic after seeing
the unauthorised payment go out.
Monzo issued its final response. It said Mr F was not covered by fraud protection regulations
and could not be refunded. It said he had placed his account at risk and had not taken
reasonable measures to keep it safe.
Mr F disagreed and referred his complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked into the
matter and broadly recommended that it should be upheld. He didnt think Monzo had done
enough to protect Mr F and pointed out that the Lending Standards Boards Contingent
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which Monzo has agreed to adhere to, applied.
Monzo replied to say the principles of the CRM Code only applied to the payment Mr F made
himself. It considered both payments in turn and said that it felt Mr F had been grossly
negligent by sharing very sensitive information. It pointed out there was a clear warning to
not forward on the magic link email and that it is common knowledge that a PIN should
never be shared, even with a bank. When considering the second payment, it didnt think the
bank had failed in its duty under the CRM Code. It said it was not convincing that a bank
would use a customers funds to trap a fraudster and pointed out that Mr F also had
reservations about the payment because hed initially asked to send £1 and not a large sum.
It later added that as Mr F worked in cybersecurity at the time of the scam, he should have
understood that forwarding on the magic link email would give whoever it was sent to
account access. It felt Mr F understood this but wilfully ignored it at the time of the scam.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me.
My provisional decision 
On 20 May 2022, I issued my provisional decision to both parties. In it, I explained why I was 
minded to uphold the complaint and say that Monzo must refund the money Mr F lost along 
with interest. 
My reasons are provided in italics below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.Payment one  an unauthorised payment of £1,000
Both parties accept that Mr F did not make the £1,000 payment and that he did not give the
fraudsters any permission to make payments on his behalf. This means that as a starting
point, in line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr F isnt liable for a
payment he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with
the terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
From the circumstances as they have been described, I dont think Mr F failed with intent to
comply with his terms and conditions or keep his details safe. I am persuaded he genuinely
believed there was a problem with his banking and that he needed to protect his money.
So Ive gone on to consider whether Mr F failed with gross negligence. In other words,
whether he was significantly careless; whether he acted so far below what a reasonable
person wouldve done; or seriously disregarded an obvious risk. Establishing gross
negligence requires me to consider all the circumstances of what happened. A finding cant
be made that Mr F seriously disregarded an obvious risk by sharing the information he did
without exploring why he proceeded.
I think it is important to consider the environment created by the fraudsters. Mr F has
explained that the phone call came from what he thought was the banks genuine phone
number. Number spoofing is a very powerful technique used by fraudsters which quickly
establishes trust and confidence. I can see how the number spoofing persuaded Mr F that
he had been mistaken in doubting the call earlier that day. Added to this, the caller knew
information about Mr Fs genuine transactions and Mr Fs recollections of the call suggest
that it closely mirrored genuine bank procedures, all of which would have acted to further
persuade him that he was speaking with the real bank.
I do not consider that Monzo has placed appropriate weight on the environment that the
fraudsters had created. I am persuaded it was not unreasonable for Mr F to trust the
information he was being told, especially considering the difficulty he faced thinking clearly
under the kind of worry and emotional pressure the scam placed him under. He genuinely
thought his money was at risk and that he needed to take action to keep it safe. He thought
he was following the instructions of an organisation that he knew and trusted. The
prevalence of impersonation scams strongly suggests that lots of other people would have
done exactly the same thing as Mr F if they had been in his shoes.
Monzo has highlighted the security features that Mr F shared which enabled the fraudsters
to access his account to make this payment, including Mr Fs PIN and the magic link email
that was forwarded on to the fraudsters which gave them access to login from another
device. Whilst I recognise Monzos concerns that Mr F has been negligent, having
considered everything, I am not persuaded that the available evidence is enough to show
that Mr F seriously disregarded an obvious risk.Mr F recalls he was told his PIN was required to make security changes and resets to his
account. I asked him what he could remember about how exactly this happened. Mr F told
me that he did not say the number out loud at any point but keyed it into his phones keypad,
as the fraudster instructed him to do. Mr F explains that he thought following the steps he
was being told was the right thing to do and would enable the bank to check on his account.
He pointed out that his other bank uses a security code process and he thought this was a
similar verification step. This does not sound like an unreasonable assessment by Mr F. I am
persuaded that in the situation the fraudsters had masterfully created, Mr F was not
anticipating that a fraudster could detect the number sequence from the keypad tones.
I dont think Mr Fs unwitting actions in entering his PIN in the manner and circumstances
that he has described go so far that they could be considered as significantly careless.
The PIN in isolation would not have been enough to enable a fraudster to move money from
Mr Fs account. They needed to use those details in conjunction with the magic link. Mr F
recalls that the fraudster told him that an email had been sent to him and that he needed to
forward it on. He says the fraudster told him not to open the email and to delete it afterwards.
Mr F explains that he forwarded the email on believing he was on the phone to Monzo and
that he did not read it at the time. Hes said he was on his phone app, checking his emails
and talking on the phone all at the same time. Hes explained that whilst this was happening,
the fraudster was telling him about invalid attempts to access his account. Mr F has
explained that he was feeling stressed and that he wanted to try and protect his account as
quickly as possible.
From what I have seen, I am not currently persuaded that Mr F was significantly careless
when forwarding on the magic link email either. He has described an environment where it
is very difficult to think clearly and to rationally absorb and process information. Hed been
cleverly manipulated into thinking he was doing the right things to keep his money safe and
that he needed to act quickly. I understand Mr Fs actions provided the tools the fraudster
needed to access his account. But in the circumstances, Im satisfied the possibility of this
happening hadnt crossed his mind, given his belief he was talking to his bank. He did not
know that a fraudster would use that information to access his account from another device.
For the reasons I have explained, I dont think Mr Fs actions fell so far below what a
reasonable person wouldve done that they amount to gross negligence. I am currently
minded to say that Mr F isnt liable for the unauthorised transaction of £1,000.
I will now go on to consider the second payment.
Payment two  an authorised payment of £1,400
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, the startling position is that Mr F is liable for
payments that he has authorised.
As Mr F was the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam, my considerations dont
end with the PSRs. When a consumer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of
a fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the
consumer even though they authorised the payment.
I am also mindful that when Mr F made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some
circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, or
make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from
fraud.The CRM Code
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited
number of circumstances.
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being 
made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the 
payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business 
with whom they transacted was legitimate.
The customer has been grossly negligent
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case
Monzo has argued that Mr F has been grossly negligent. It says that he did not take
reasonable measures to keep his account safe and that he has an enhanced awareness of
this sort of scam because he is employed in cybersecurity.
It says that the second payment was made on the basis of setting a trap to catch the
fraudster, which it didnt feel was a convincing explanation. It felt Mr F had reservations
about the situation by initially wanting to pay £1.
It adds that it provided Mr F with high friction warnings at the time that he was making the
payment.
But I dont think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose to not fully reimburse
the payment Mr F made under the terms of the CRM Code. Im not persuaded any of the
listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code apply in the
circumstances of this case.
Did Mr F ignore an effective warning?
The CRM Code says that when a firm identifies an APP scam risk in a payment journey, it
should take reasonable steps to provide the customer with effective warnings, including
actions for the customer to take to protect themselves from APP scams.
Having looked at Mr Fs account statements and how his account usually ran, I think there
were significant risk factors with the payment he was making. Mr F used the account
infrequently and kept a low balance, often reducing it to zero. To move money in and then
almost immediately pay it out again did stand out, especially given the funds were going to a
payee that had only been created that day. Its unclear why a consumer would send multiple
genuine payments to the same payee in quick succession when they could have sent the
funds at the same time in one lump sum. Im also mindful that there was a suspicious pattern
of spending potentially emerging as the first payment had been initiated using a new devicethat had only been added that day, but the second payment was being initiated minutes later
from Mr Fs usual device.
Having looked carefully at the circumstances here, I think Monzo was required to give an
effective warning during the payment journey.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, an effective warning must have (as a minimum)
been understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. Beyond these minimum
requirements, an effective warning must provide information that gives customers a better
chance to protect themselves against being defrauded  otherwise it could not have been an
effective warning.
Ive looked carefully at Monzos high friction warning screens that it says would have been
shown to Mr F at the time he was making the payment to decide whether he ignored an
effective warning. Mr F does recall this part of the payment process but explains he was
coached by the fraudster into quickly moving past the information and to select the payment
purpose something else. It is not uncommon for a fraudster to persuade a victim to choose
an alternative reason for payment deliberately to circumvent the banks fraud detection
system.
This means that Mr F did not see the warning most relevant to his circumstances  as he
was directed to choose a different payment reason by the fraudsters. This is unfortunate in
the context of preventing the scam, but Im only able to assess the effectiveness of the
information Mr F did see.
The information that was presented to Mr F at the top of the something else warning
prompted him to consider whether a deal seemed too good to be true or not. This would not
have resonated with him in the moment as it did not apply to the particular scam he was
falling victim to.
Monzo has pointed out further down the something else warning it says that the name and
phone number of legitimate companies can be spoofed or faked. I can see why the bank
considers that this relates, in part, to the scam Mr F fell victim to. Its clear from Mr Fs
submissions that he steadfastly believed he was talking to the bank because the fraudster
had been able to replicate the banks genuine phone number.
But the information in the warning does not really bring to life what safe account scams look
like. It doesnt explain that fraudsters pose as banks and other genuine companies and apply
pressure to convince their victims that the funds in their account are at risk if they dont move
them to a safe account with urgency. Nor does it talk about the prevalence of this type of
scam or explain how sophisticated the scams can be  it doesnt for example, explain that
fraudsters often know personal information about their victims and use this as a tactic to
convince them that they are genuine. Finally, the warning doesnt explain the potential
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment.
Overall, Im not satisfied that a reasonable person in Mr Fs position would have appreciated
the scam risk from the information Monzo gave. Mr F has told us he was convinced he was
talking to his bank, and as a result followed every instruction the fraudster gave him. I think
its understandable in the circumstances that Mr M followed the instructions he was given
and therefore moved past the warnings as the fraudster managed his journey through the
payment. Customers tend to follow instructions from their bank, even more so when it comes
to fraud.It follows that Im not satisfied that it can reasonably be said that the requirements of the
effective warning exception under the CRM Code were met in the individual circumstances
of this complaint. I am not persuaded the warning Monzo gave was impactful or specific
enough for me to say that Mr F ignored an effective warning.
Did Mr F make the payment without a reasonable basis of belief?
Its not clear if Monzo is arguing that Mr F lacked a reasonable basis for believing he was
making genuine transactions. In any case, Ive considered whether Mr F held a reasonable
basis for belief in making the payment, taking into account whether he actually did believe
what he was told and whether that belief, taking into account his characteristics, was
reasonable.
Having done so, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr F to believe he was genuinely
speaking to Monzo.
Mr F has said that the fraudsters telephone manner and the way it mimicked the banks own
procedures and processes was compelling. He has pointed out that the fraudster knew
details about his banking, such as his last genuine transaction. He has also repeatedly
highlighted the banks genuine telephone number had been replicated, which absolutely
convinced him that this was genuine contact from the real bank.
Im also mindful that Mr F was being coached by the fraudster who knew step by step the
actions he needed to take, which gave the caller credibility as they were able to describe the
upcoming payment screens in a natural and knowledgeable way. Ive also taken into account
that Mr F was being put under time pressure to make a payment and the fraudster had given
him a plausible reason to make a larger payment than he was comfortable with.
I accept that there were some factors here that ought to have caused Mr F pause for thought
 such as why he was being told to select a different reason for the payment and why he
was making payments to an account in a different name to his own, but its really important
to remember that this didnt happen in the cold light of day. Im mindful that the convincing
nature of these scams can often have a negative effect on a persons thought process and
make them take steps that, in the cold light of day they might not otherwise take.
From what Mr F has said, I am not persuaded that his actions were as a result of
carelessness or indifference to what was happening, but rather deference to an expert that
he believed was trying to assist him. In following their instructions (which in hindsight were
clearly designed to divert his attention away from warnings and concerns) he appears to
have believed he was simply carrying out instructions in the most expedient way possible.
Monzo has suggested that Mr Fs employment in cybersecurity would impact his knowledge
and awareness of this type of scam, but Monzos internal notes suggest that it did not ask
Mr F to explain more about his job role and what it entails. I have done so, and he has
explained that he is involved in internal computer network security assessments. I am not
persuaded that Mr Fs employment has given him knowledge sufficient to say that he ought
to have realised he was speaking to a fraudster or that he was falling victim to a safe
account scam.
Has Mr F been grossly negligent?
As I have explained earlier in this provisional decision, a finding of gross negligence would
require a very significant degree of carelessness on Mr Fs part. I am not persuaded his
actions or inaction in this case goes far enough to meet that very high bar.Ive already gone into considerable detail to explain why I dont think Mr Fs actions show a
lack of care that goes significantly beyond what a reasonable person would have done in the
same situation. I dont think he disregarded or acted with indifference towards the risk of his
bank account being compromised and money being stolen. He genuinely believed he was
speaking with his bank and that he had to follow its instructions in order to protect his
money. Its because of this that Mr F didnt digest the surrounding detail on the magic link
email  he simply followed the instructions of whom he believed to be his bank. And as Ive
already explained, in the circumstances, I dont think Mr Fs belief was unreasonable. I think
in similar circumstances a reasonable person would have acted in the same way Mr F did
here.
Should Monzo have intervened to stop the payments?
Though I can see that Mr F didnt use his Monzo account like a current account, Im still of
the view that there was enough activity on the account in the six months prior to the scam for
Monzo to recognise that the disputed payments were sufficiently unusual and out of
character that it ought to have intervened and questioned them in order to try and protect
him from financial harm from fraud.
Had it asked Mr F about the activity, Ive seen nothing to suggest he would not have told
Monzo what was happening, that it would have quickly recognised that he was falling victim
to a scam and that the loss would have been prevented. The effect of this finding is limited,
given Im upholding the complaint, but it does mean that Monzo should pay interest on the
second payment from the date of loss rather than the date it declined the claim under the
CRM Code.
Mr F has provided evidence to show the money he transferred to Monzo came from his
current account held at another bank. So I think 8% simple interest per year from the date
the payment was made to the date of settlement would be appropriate redress here, less
any tax lawfully deductible.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F responded to my provisional decision and said there were no final points that he 
wanted to make.
Monzo responded and did not agree with the proposed outcome. It said Mr Fs act of 
forwarding on an email from his bank which he didnt open was a negligent act, regardless of 
who was telling him to do this and he should have at least reviewed the email before 
forwarding it onto the scammer.
It noted that whilst the phone number had been spoofed, this didnt outweigh the other 
concerns Mr F ought to have had for being suspicious about the calls he received. It said he 
moved his money from a non-compromised account into his Monzo account to facilitate the 
scam. It felt Mr F had strong evidence that the caller was the fraudster and no longer had 
any reasonable basis for belief the caller was who they said they were when the first 
payment left his account. It said it wasnt reasonable for Mr F to move the money into his 
Monzo account, give his bank details to a caller, see a £1,000 payment leave his account 
and then trust that caller and send money to that same account. 
The bank emphasised it is required to provide warnings that are as specific as they can 
reasonably make them, based on the information available at the time of payment. It felt it 
was unfair to look in hindsight at the warnings and it was not possible for any bank to have a 
monitoring system that prevents every possible scam transaction. It pointed out that it 
needed to strike a balance between protecting customers whilst not being overly disruptive in adding unnecessary friction to legitimate payment requests. 
It said that transactions werent significant in the wider scheme of payments that the bank 
sees on a regular basis and were not concerning enough to be blocked and investigated 
further. It said it would be disruptive to thousands of legitimate customer payment requests 
to expect the bank to pick up and intervene prior to processing payments like this. 
As both parties have responded, I shall now reconsider the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of all that was on file before my provisional decision as well as the 
arguments put forwards since. 
Having done so, I remain of the view that Monzo should refund the unauthorised payment of 
£1,000. Monzo has responded to say that Mr Fs actions when forwarding on the email were 
negligent. But negligence isnt enough for me to fairly say that Monzo can hold Mr F 
responsible for this payment. For the reasons Ive already explained in my provisional 
decision (which is included above to form part of this final decision), I dont think Mr F 
seriously disregarded an obvious risk when he, on balance, unwittingly shared sufficient 
details to allow the fraudster to transfer £1,000 out of his account. This means I do not 
consider that Mr F failed with gross negligence. It can be difficult for consumers to think 
clearly and rationally under the kind of worry and emotional pressure Mr F found himself 
under at the hands of the fraudster. I think a lot of people would have been fooled into doing 
the same or something similar in the heat of the moment. It follows that I dont think Mr Fs 
actions when sharing the details that ultimately enabled a fraudster to access his account 
and make a payment fell so far below what a reasonable person would have done that they 
amount to gross negligence.
I also remain of the view that Monzo should refund the later payment of £1,400 that was 
authorised by Mr F. Whilst I acknowledge Monzos position that Mr F ought to have found 
the situation suspicious, I remain of the opinion that Monzo has not given sufficient weight to 
the environment that the fraudsters created when assessing Mr Fs actions. I am still 
persuaded it was difficult for Mr F to think clearly in the heat of the moment and Im mindful 
the panic he has described feeling when he saw £1,000 had left his account was not an 
unreasonable reaction to the situation. I am persuaded that it did heighten the stress he was 
feeling. Fraudsters are masterful at creating urgent situations. From what I have seen, Mr F 
genuinely believed his money was at risk and his motivation when making the second 
payment was to try and protect it. I am not persuaded that Mr F missed or ignored any red 
flags that should have been obvious to him at that time. It can be easy, in the cold light of 
day, to critically reflect on exactly how events could have happened. It is likely that Mr F has 
also replayed the events of that day over and over again in his mind given how significant 
the loss of the money has been to him.
I am not expecting Monzo to be able to prevent every possible scam type as it unfolds. 
I agree with the bank that it is not possible to prevent every scam, and also appreciate that it 
needs to strike a balance in order to not unduly delay legitimate payment instructions. But in 
this instance, Monzo should have identified an APP scam risk because of the significant 
changes to the way the account typically ran.The CRM Code that Monzo has agreed to adhere to says that where firms identify APP 
scam risks, they should provide effective warnings to their customers. I have already 
assessed the information Mr F was presented with in my provisional decision and for the 
reasons I have previously explained, I not satisfied that it can reasonably be said that the 
requirements of the effective warning exception under the CRM Code were met in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint. I am not persuaded the warning Monzo gave was 
impactful or specific enough for me to say that Mr F ignored an effective warning. This 
means Monzo did not meet the obligations it has agreed to adhere to under the CRM Code. 
Monzo has said that the payment Mr F was making was unremarkable in character and that 
it wasnt significant enough to warrant further intervention and challenge at the time it was 
being made. I can appreciate that a payment of £1,400 in and of itself isnt a remarkable 
amount of money for a customer to be spending at any given time. But transaction value 
alone isnt the only factor that the bank should take into account when deciding whether it 
ought to intervene in a payment. Monzo should be on the lookout for unusual transactions or 
other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud, amongst other things. 
I think the activity that day was significantly out of character for the way Mr Fs account 
typically ran. There were other risk factors evident, such as the creation of a new payee, a 
payment being instigated from a new device and money being moved in and then 
immediately moved on, which contrasted considerably to the way Mr Fs typically ran. Taking 
those factors in conjunction with transactions that represented a departure from the type of 
spending Mr F typically did, I am persuaded the account activity ought to have triggered 
Monzos fraud alert systems. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Monzo should now:
Reimburse Mr F for the £1,000 unauthorised payment
Pay 8% simple interest per year on the sum from the date the payment 
debited Mr Fs account until the date of settlement
Reimburse Mr F for the £1,400 payment he made
Pay 8% simple interest per year on the sum from the date the payment 
debited Mr Fs account until the date of settlement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman