DRN-1811888
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the compensation Santander UK PLC (Santander) has 
offered to settle their complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out at alongside their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P applied for their mortgage in January 1996 and at the same time took out a 
PPI policy. 
In 2019 Mr and Mrs P complained the PPI was mis-sold. Santander has agreed to uphold 
the complaint the PPI was mis-sold and offered to pay compensation. 
Santander had some records about Mr and Mrs Ps account which shows only one amount 
paid for the total PPI premiums. So it calculated the compensation based solely on that one 
payment and has offered £146.31 in total compensation.
Mr and Mrs P are not happy with the amount of compensation offered as they say it should 
be more as they paid for the PPI for much longer. 
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to this service and our adjudicator said what 
Santander had offered was fair. 
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has agreed to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and pay them compensation for 
the PPI that was mis-sold. So, in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be 
sold, but at whether what has been offered in compensation is fair. 
When looking at calculating compensation for mis-sold PPI I expect a business to work out 
what was paid for the PPI. Where PPI is taken out with a mortgage it is generally paid by a 
monthly premium, so no interest is paid on the cost of the premium as it is paid direct by the 
consumer and not added to any borrowing. The business also has to compensate a 
consumer for times they were out of pocket for the PPI cost, so it has to work out some 
compensatory. 
That is what Santander has done in this case. It has used the evidence on the records it has, 
of the one premium paid, and calculated compensatory interest on that amount.
Santander doesnt have full records for the mortgage and PPI account from when it was 
opened. What it does have are some computer screenshot records. These indicate the PPI 
only had one amount paid in 1996 for £58.43. So this is the amount Santander has used as the total PPI cost, and worked out the compensatory interest on that, to reach the amount of 
the compensation. 
Mr and Mrs P say that their monthly mortgage payment included the PPI premiums and they 
were never told about it. They believe as their mortgage ran until 2008, and the monthly 
mortgage repayments only ever changed with interest rate changes, the PPI must also have 
run for the term of the mortgage. They say there is no proof the PPI was cancelled and if it 
had been they would have paid less each month for their mortgage repayment.
Mr and Mrs P have provided a copy of their mortgage offer which sets out the monthly 
repayments they were to make, and as they say it makes no reference to PPI. But that is 
because the PPI was not included in their monthly mortgage payments.
PPI, like that Mr and Mrs P had with their mortgage, is taken out by a separate agreement 
with the insurer  although this can be arranged by the mortgage provider at the same time 
as the mortgage. Payment for the monthly premium is generally taken separately from the 
mortgage repayment.
Looking at the mortgage offer Mr and Mrs P received this sets out what costs are being paid 
in the monthly mortgage repayment amount and as Mr and Mrs P say, it makes no reference 
to the PPI. 
This offer document sets out how much of the monthly repayment is for Buildings Insurance 
and interest on the interest only part of the mortgage amount, which would leave the 
remaining amount to cover the repayment part of the mortgage. And looking at the figures 
these would seem reasonable repayment amounts for the amount borrowed and the 
mortgage term.
Buildings Insurance was a required part of the mortgage, and the cost of this per month, that 
was included in the monthly payment, is set out in the mortgage offer. The conditions also 
refer to this insurance. 
PPI was not a requirement and wasnt included in the monthly payment as set out in the 
mortgage offer. If it had been included in the monthly repayments Mr and Mrs P made it 
would have been referred to in the mortgage summary of the payment. The monthly benefit 
provided by the PPI is indicated on the screen shots available and is in line with the monthly 
mortgage amount that was being paid. 
Whilst I accept the agreement to take out a PPI policy is not available, and it is unclear how 
and why the policy was taken out. The payments for the policy would have been made 
separately, as is common with PPI policies with a mortgage, and were not part of the 
monthly mortgage repayments Mr and Mrs P made. This is why the monthly repayments did 
not reduce when the PPI was terminated.
The mortgage seems to have completed, from what has been said, in April 2006 and the 
records indicate a payment was made for the PPI also in April 2006. This would suggest the 
PPI was effective from April 2006, the same time as the mortgage payments became due, 
although the application date appears to be January 2006 - the same time as the mortgage 
application.
The screen shots about the PPI also may suggest the one PPI payment made, may have 
been  by cheque. This is from the reference on the line above that in the screen shot 
providing the figure of the payment amount. But the information about the payment is also 
clear that the only payment recorded for PPI was in April 2006 and was for £58.43.I know Mr and Mrs P say it is pure speculation the PPI was cancelled but the only records 
available do indicated it was terminated. I would indicate to Mr and Mrs P that PPI was quite 
often taken out and then cancelled after a short time and did not run the full term of a 
mortgage, or loan or other financial product. Sometimes this was because when the 
premiums were charged and taken, the consumer changed their mind about having the PPI. 
It is possible here that Mr and Mrs P paid the initial payment in 2006 and then felt they did 
not want to continue with it. If they made no further payments for the premiums, then after a 
period of time the policy would have been automatically cancelled by the insurer. 
I have tried here to provide some information for Mr and Mrs P to help them understand how 
PPI may work. But in the case of their complaint I have to reach a decision about whether 
the compensation paid is fair by considering the evidence available. Here that is very limited 
evidence and the only direct evidence about the PPI is from the screen shots. 
Without any clear evidence to show differently, I am satisfied that the total Mr and Mrs P 
ever paid for the PPI was £58.43. As their complaint that the PPI was mis-sold has been 
upheld then this amount for the premiums that they paid is what needs to be refunded plus 
some compensatory interest for being out of pocket for this amount. 
This is what Santander has calculated, offered and paid in compensation to Mr and Mrs P, 
so based on the direct evidence I have seen about the PPI, the compensation paid is fair. 
I also note Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with how Santander dealt with their complaint as 
following its offer letter and payment in September 2019 Mr and Mrs P say it failed to 
respond to their further correspondence.
In the offer letter sent to Mr and Mrs P, Santander state this is their final response and the 
payment of the compensation has been arranged. Referral rights to this service were given 
indicating if Mr and Mr P were unhappy with the outcome they could bring their complaint to 
this service.
The correspondence sent by Mr and Mrs P to Santander after the offer letter indicates they 
were not happy with the outcome and wanted a recalculation. But there was nothing more 
that Santander were willing to consider without new evidence, hence the indication its offer 
letter was the final response to the complaint. 
Santander could have sent an acknowledgement of receipt, indicating it had already sent its 
final response. But that would not have progressed the matter as Mr and Mrs P needed to 
bring their concerns to this service, as Santander had already indicated. So I dont think 
Santander did anything substantially wrong in the way the complaint was handled. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I am satisfied that the compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI that Santander UK PLC has offered to Mr and Mrs P to settle their complaint is fair. So I 
am not upholding the complaint that more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman