DRN-2795867
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are complaining that Punjab National Bank (International) Limited (PNB) wont 
refund transactions they didnt authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision: 
On 17 May 2020, Mr S received a call from someone claiming to be from PNB. They 
told him there was possible fraud on the account  someone had tried to buy pizza 
for £19.99. They asked for a code, which theyd send by text, so they could block the 
transaction. Mr S provided this. 
Five minutes later, PNB called back and said someone had attempted fraud again, 
and that they would need a further code to block it. Mr S followed their instruction. 
Mr S was called again for the third time, and he felt something wasnt right. So his 
son took over the call and realised it wasnt PNB. 
That day, a payment for £1,649.32 was made using Mr Ss debit card. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, Mr and Mrs S arent liable for 
payments they didnt authorise, unless they failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep their personalised security details safe.
Ive considered whether Mr S authorised the transaction thats been disputed  and 
so, in line with the PSRs, whether he completed the agreed steps to make the 
payment or gave someone else permission to complete these steps on his behalf.
Ive reviewed the accounts terms and conditions to see how it was agreed for 
payments to be made by debit card. These explain that Mr S needs to confirm the 
amount and payee, as well as providing the long card number, expiry date, CVV 
number and one-time passcode for online purchases. 
Its not disputed that Mr S shared the one-time passcode. PNB has also alleged that 
he shared his card details with the fraudster. But Mr S has consistently said he didnt 
provide these and they knew them before the call. He pointed out how they shared 
the last four digits of the card and thats partly why he trusted them.
I think its likely Mr S is right. Afterall, the fraudster must have had some information 
about him before the call to have known his contact details and that he was a PNB 
customer. Mr S thinks this was connected to a security breach that PNB told him 
about recently. PNB said that happened a few months after this scam  so I dont 
think its conclusive. And we know from our experience dealing with scams that there 
are lots of ways fraudsters can access this information. But however this happened, 
Im not persuaded that Mr S shared his card details with the fraudster during the call. 
Even if he did, I emphasise that it doesnt mean he confirmed the payment details or 
provided card details to the merchant. Indeed, Ive seen no evidence that Mr S had 
any interaction with the merchants website where the online purchase was made.
It follows that Im not satisfied Mr S completed all the agreed steps to make the 
payment online. And I dont think he gave someone else permission to make the 
payment  he thought he was blocking the transaction. This payment was, therefore, 
unauthorised. 
I dont think Mr S failed with intent to keep his details safe  he believed what he was 
doing was necessary to stop fraudulent transactions. 
Im also not satisfied he failed with gross negligence. To convince Mr S they were 
PNB, they spoofed the banks genuine number, so it appeared on his caller ID. They 
also knew Mr Ss name and repeated the last four digits of his card number. So I can 
see how he trusted that the caller was genuine  I think lots of people wouldve done. 
They told him that someone was trying to buy pizza in Birmingham using his card, 
and to stop this, theyd need him to share a code theyd send to him by text. This 
message said Your SMS code for authorizing 19.99 GBP to Dominos Pizza is: 
[XXXXXX]. For any queries contact [telephone number]. 
They called back and asked him for a further code, to stop another attempted 
transaction. This time the message read: Your SMS code for authorizing £1649.32 
to CEX.IO is: [XXXXXX]. Do not disclose OTP. For any queries contact [telephone 
number]. 
Mr S said he didnt fully take in the message including the warning  which I note 
referred vaguely to an OTP and was only in the latter message. Hes explained he 
instead focussed on the code he needed to share. In the heat of the moment, 
thinking he was talking to a trusted professional and that someone was trying to use 
his card, I can see how that wouldve happened. I dont think it means Mr S seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk and, therefore, failed with gross negligence. 
Ive also reflected on the sophistication of the scam, and how it was cleverly 
designed to lure Mr S into sharing sensitive information. The fraudster referred to a 
transaction for a small amount first, that ultimately wasnt taken, and they told Mr S to 
look out for further information. So, when they called again asking for a further code, I 
can understand how Mr S was fooled by the false sense of security and familiarity 
theyd created. I think lots of people wouldve been.  
PNB submit that they dont call and ask for personal information. But Im mindful that 
a lot of people wont be to recall what information their bank would and wouldnt ask 
for in the heat of the moment  particularly when theyve been made to feel worried 
that their money would be at risk. Ive also considered that most people arent experts in fraud prevention  and theyre 
unlikely to have come across this situation with their genuine bank enough times to 
know exactly how it works and, therefore, question what theyre being asked for. 
On this basis, I dont think Mr Ss actions fell so far below what a reasonable person 
wouldve done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude that Mr and Mrs S 
arent liable for this transaction and PNB need to put things right  by refunding their 
losses from this unauthorised transaction alongside interest to compensate them for 
the time theyve been out of pocket. 
PNB ought to have refunded this much sooner  and thats meant Mr and Mrs S 
worried about their financial situation and had to be supported by their son. So I also 
award £150, which I think fairly reflects their non-financial losses here. 
 
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and I order Punjab 
National Bank (International) Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the total of the unauthorised transaction (£1649.32), less any 
amount already returned.
 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman