DRN-1597405
 
 
Complaint
Mr H and Miss I say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr H and Miss I took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1993, then took out a further policy 
in 1996. Mr H and Miss I paid for the PPI with regular monthly premiums, which didnt attract 
interest. The policies covered them in case either of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H and Miss I disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr H and Miss Is case. 
Having done that, I have not found that either of these policies were mis-sold, for much the 
same reasons as our adjudicator.
These two policies were sold well over two decades ago, and the accounts involved have 
long since closed. So its unsurprising that neither side still have all the original documents 
from the sale. Indeed, under data protection rules, Halifax were required to dispose of Mr H 
and Miss Is data rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr H and Miss I didnt recall choosing 
PPI, and I also think thats understandable given that buying insurance is not often 
memorable and these sales were particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats 
most likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr H and Miss I into 
having PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have 
I seen any wider problems with its sales process from the time. In the 1993 mortgage, taking 
PPI or buildings and contents insurance was a condition of getting a certain mortgage rate. 
From what Mr H and Miss I have shown us, this was made clear to them as part of their 
offer. So they wouldve been aware what the conditions of that mortgage were, and they 
were free to accept that, or apply for a different rate or a different mortgage product. Overall, 
I think its most likely that Halifax made Mr H and Miss I aware about what choices they had 
in terms of buying PPI, and they chose to take each policy at the time  though I can 
understand if they no longer recall doing so after so long.Halifax recommended each policy to Mr H and Miss I, so it had to check they were right for 
them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think they were. For 
example, it looks like Mr H and Miss I were eligible for the policies and werent affected by 
any of their main exclusions or limitations.
When Mr H raised this complaint with Halifax, he said he got six months full sick pay from 
work, and then six months of just half pay. He and Miss I later said they got six months full 
pay, then were both covered by some form of company insurance. Understandably, they 
werent able to provide any supporting documents for this. But that means its unclear what 
such a policy actually covered, or what it paid out, or for how long, and so on. So these 
insurance policies may not have been relevant. And theyve now said they were entitled to 
twelve months sick pay.
While I completely understand that its difficult to remember entitlements from so long ago, 
its also difficult for me to rely on testimony thats inconsistent or contradictory. I also need to 
bear in mind that Mr H and Miss Is latter descriptions of their sick pay are unusual, and it 
doesnt seem likely that theyd get the same unusual benefits when working different roles in 
different companies in different industries. Taking into account everything that Mr H and 
Miss I have told us  including their age, positions, salary, and original testimony, I think its 
most likely that the PPI covered them for longer than their work benefits. Especially as their 
1993 policy covered them for up to 24 months in any one accident or sickness claim. So it 
would have been especially useful when their sick pay ran out or reduced to just a fraction of 
their normal pay. And both policies wouldve paid out on top of their existing benefits. 
Further, they said they were only entitled to statutory redundancy payments, whereas again 
the PPI wouldve paid out on top of that and offered them more comprehensive cover.
I understand Mr H and Miss I had other insurances, but they covered different things to PPI, 
so Im afraid they werent relevant here. And the PPI meant they could effectively protect 
their savings and use them for other things, instead of having to sacrifice one asset to cover 
another. Further, this mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment, and there was 
no guarantee that Mr H or Miss I would have the same benefits or savings in the many years 
to come. And if they fell behind on their mortgage payments, they couldve lost their home. 
So overall, it seems most likely that the PPI couldve been useful for them in protecting their 
home in case things went wrong, and in providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr H and Miss I about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, it looks like Mr H and Miss I werent affected 
by any of the main things the policies didnt cover, and they couldve been useful for them in 
case something went wrong. The policies were competitively priced given how much they 
would pay out in a claim. And they were paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr H and Miss I 
could cancel them at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information 
was likely to have put them off taking out PPI on either occasion.
Lastly, Mr H and Miss I dont recall getting the right documents after each sale. Given that 
the policies closed around two decades ago, its unsurprising that they dont remember, and 
it seems very plausible that theyd have disposed of such documents long ago. With that 
said, this case is only about the sale of the PPI, and not what came after. So Mr H and Miss I 
may be able to make a separate complaint about the administration of the policies. Similarly, 
if there was an occasion where they could have claimed on the PPI, but didnt, they may still 
be able to make a back-dated claim. If Mr H and Miss I want to pursue those matters, they 
should get back in touch with Halifax in the first instance. Then they may be able to ask our 
service for help with those things if needed.
My final decisionFor the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr H and Miss Is complaint about the sale 
of these two PPI policies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss I to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman