DRN-3349046
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) dealt with a claim he made on his cosmetic repair insurance 
policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the case should
be upheld. I do so for the following reasons:
Mr Ks policy says damage to flat/horizontal surfaces can only be disguised and may 
not be repairable by Mapfres repairer. The policy also says if the minor cosmetic 
damage is too severe to be repaired, Mapfre will contribute £250 towards a body 
shop repair.
Mapfre says Mr K was made aware of the option to receive a £250 contribution. But it 
says Mr K chose to go ahead with the minor cosmetic repair. Mapfre says Mr K was 
fully aware of the limitations of this specific cosmetic repair. 
Mr K says he was advised of the opportunity to claim back £250. However, he says  
when he spoke to Mapfre he was told that a cosmetic repair would be attempted first, 
and if it didnt work, he could then avail of the body shop repair option.
Mapfre are unable to provide a copy of this call. Without the call I cant be sure what 
Mr K was told. However, Mr K has provided a detailed recollection of the call. 
In the absence of a call recording, I have to look at whats likely to have happened. 
And in this specific circumstance Im persuaded by Mr Ks recollection of the phone 
call. 
Mapfre isnt liable for the full repair if a body shop repair is required. However as per 
the policy terms and conditions, it should now contribute £250 to the body shop 
repair following the provision of an invoice and authority number. 
I appreciate Mapfre was prioritising key workers at the time. But Mr K waited over two 
months for this repair to take place. And even then, it wasnt clear which of the two 
repairs was actually happening. I dont think the service Mapfre provided was good, 
so Im also going to recommend that Mapfre pays Mr K £100 in compensation for the 
inconvenience hes suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay:
£250 towards the cost of the claim, once an invoice is provided. 
£100 in compensation for the inconvenience suffered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman