DRN-2494116
The complaint
Mr Ps complained is about a secured loan account, originally taken out in 2009 with another 
business I will call WFS, but currently owned by Coast Finance Solutions. The loan is 
administered on behalf of Coast by Target Servicing Limited.
Mr Ps complaint is that, despite his belief he has paid off the loan in full, Target maintains 
there is an outstanding balance of just under £1,000. To settle the complaint Mr P wants 
Target to acknowledge he has paid off the loan and remove the legal charge on his property.
What happened
On 29 June 2009 Mr P took out a secured loan with WFS. He borrowed £21,333.16 over a 
term of 11 years. The monthly contractual payment was £243.89 and, if all payments had 
been made in full and on time, the loan would have been repaid on 14 July 2020. 
WFS is no longer trading and on 23 May 2018 ownership of the loan was transferred to 
Coast Finance Solutions. As Coast is a non-UK company and is unregulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority, the loan is administered by Target, which is regulated.
Unfortunately Mr P missed payments and in April 2019 entered into a payment arrangement 
for 12 months to pay the contractual instalment of £243.89 plus an additional £81.23 per 
month to pay off the arrears of £870.85. 
Mr P made those payments, and believes his loan account has now been cleared. He wrote 
to Target on 26 May 2020 explaining that paying 12 x 81.23 was £974, so hed overpaid by 
£103.91. Mr P said that as the payment for June 2020 would be the final one, he would 
deduct this from the monthly instalment and pay £139.98, which, he said, would settle the 
account in full. Mr P made the payment by cheque and cancelled his direct debit.
However, in its final response letter Target explained that there was still an outstanding 
balance of about £1,000 because of fees and charges added to the account between 2009 
and 2014 (before it took over administration of the loan) and that these still needed to be 
paid. Target acknowledged it hadnt replied to an earlier letter Mr P had sent and offered him 
compensation of £20 for this. 
Mr P disputed this with Target and, dissatisfied with Targets rejection of his complaint, 
contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened, 
and reviewed the account statements. Having done so, he didnt think Mr Ps complaint 
should be upheld because he was satisfied that the balance Target claimed was still 
outstanding was correct. The investigator explained that the balance was as a result of 
interest on historic arrears, fees and charges.
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, as he maintains his own calculations 
are correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the annual statements, and although I understand why Mr P believes hes paid 
off the loan, Im satisfied there is still an outstanding balance.
When a monthly payment is missed, it doesnt just put the loan into arrears by the amount 
missed. Because the monthly payment is made up of both interest and an amount to reduce 
the capital, failure to pay means the overall loan balance wont reduce as it should. As a 
result, the balance is higher than it ought to be the following month  meaning more interest 
is charged, the balance goes up again, and then more interest is charged the next month, 
and so on.
That means that over time, where a loan has been in arrears because payments arent being 
made, the balance can go up, even after the arrears have been paid off. And theres less 
time left to reduce it before the scheduled end of the loan term. 
So even where the borrower has paid off the arrears and starts making the original 
contractual monthly payments again, those payments are no longer enough to pay the loan 
off by the end of the term. Thats because clearing the arrears isnt enough by itself to pay 
off the additional interest, or any fees and charges added to the account, which also attract 
interest.
Having reviewed the account history, Im satisfied that this is what has happened in this 
case. So although I accept Mr P genuinely believed hed paid off his loan in June 2020, Im 
satisfied that there is still an outstanding balance owed on the account.
Because Im satisfied the balance remains outstanding, Mr P will need to make 
arrangements to repay it. Ive noted what Mr P has said about his current situation, as a 
result of the pandemic. Mr P has also told us that hes suffering stress and worry about this 
loan. So I will remind Target at this point of the need to treat Mr P sympathetically when 
considering any payment proposals to clear this outstanding balance. 
This is a relatively small balance and so I would not expect Target to take any enforcement 
action if Mr P is able to make a reasonable proposal to pay it off. Mr P will need to contact 
Target about this, providing full details of his present circumstances so that Target can give 
consideration to his payment proposals. 
I note Mr P has already offered £100 per month, and has asked Target to take off the £20 
compensation from the outstanding balance. But I leave it to Mr P to contact Target with his 
proposals.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr P wanted, but I hope my explanation has clarified why there 
is an outstanding balance on the account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman