DRN-4478297
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the quality of a van he acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement with MI Vehicle Finance Limited (MIVF). 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont go over 
everything again in detail. But, in summary, Mr E acquired a used van under a hire purchase 
agreement with MIVF in January 2023. The van was nearly six years old and had covered 
around 52,000 miles. It cost around £18,000 and he made a £3,500 advance payment. 
Shortly after acquiring the van Mr E sought to reject it. He was unhappy with its quality. He 
said the van was smoking and the engine wasnt running properly. He was also unhappy that 
it looked like the van had been resprayed, repaired and that it hadnt been serviced properly. 
Mr E initially sought to reject through the supplying dealer and broker. An £80 diagnostic was 
carried out which indicated there mightve been an over-fueling issue and an oil leak.
Mr E decided to refer his complaint to our service and MIVF. He said he needed the van for 
work and was losing income. An independent inspection was arranged for 30 April 2023. 
The mileage was around 52,800 at this point. The expert said it was clear the van hadnt 
been used for some time as the brakes had evidence of surface corrosion. The expert said 
Mr E was using a rental vehicle for work. The expert said it was clear the van had gone 
through bodywork repairs that hadnt been done to manufacturers standards. He noted the 
right-side rear door was difficult to open and close. 
The expert concluded the timing chain was reaching the end of its life and that the issue was 
likely present at the point of supply. The expert said the van shouldnt be used until its been 
repaired. And that the responsibility lied with the supplier. 
MIVF said it would uphold the complaint and would allow Mr E to reject the goods. It said it 
wouldnt charge for the 800 miles use and it would arrange a full refund of deposit and what 
had been paid to date. 
Our investigator looked into things and said in addition to allowing Mr E to reject the goods, 
MIVF should also reimburse him for the £80 report; pay him £200 compensation; and pay 
him £1,000 to reflect his loss of income. 
MIVF queried the investigators recommendation for loss of income. And it said it thought the 
redress gave Mr E double benefit. It also said that as this was a business contract the 
Consumer Rights Act (2015) didnt apply and that it could have relied on a term excluding its 
liability for quality and fitness, but it didnt do this. 
Mr E asked for the road tax to be refunded as well, but otherwise broadly accepted the 
recommendations. I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr E and MIVF that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr E acquired the van under a hire purchase agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
The relevant legislation in this case is the Supply of goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973. And 
exclusion terms under the agreement would need to satisfy the requirement of 
reasonableness as set out in the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977, but seeing as though it 
doesnt seem to be in dispute the van wasnt of satisfactory quality, and that MIVF has 
agreed to allow Mr E to reject the goods, Im not intending to spend time undertaking a 
detailed analysis of the relevant legislation and how that fits in to Mr Es complaint.
All parties agree the van can be rejected. MIVF has offered to reimburse Mr E everything 
paid under the agreement (and not make a deduction for use). Given things went wrong very 
soon after the van was acquired, and that he hardly had any use of it, I find this to be fair in 
all the circumstances. 
I agree any adverse information is fair to be removed from Mr Es credit file in relation to the 
agreement, seeing as though there appears to have been a breach of contract. Moreover, I 
agree Mr E should also be reimbursed £80 if he had to pay this to have diagnostics carried 
out on the van. Hed need to supply supporting evidence if hes paid this. 
Our investigator recommended £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I cant generally hold MIVF responsible for any failings of the broker and the 
supplying dealer after the agreement was entered into if it wasnt involved. But Im mindful 
that while Mr E sought help from the broker and dealer first, it looks like MIVF were put on 
notice of the complaint about a month after acquisition. And as the supplier of the goods 
under the hire purchase agreement, MIVF is responsible for dealing with a complaint about 
their quality. 
Based on the timeline Ive seen, I think MIVF did try to help Mr E resolve things. It liaised 
with the dealer, the broker and Mr E. I cant see it was responsible for any significant delays. 
But acquiring a van that wasnt of satisfactory quality clearly would have caused some level 
of distress inconvenience to Mr E. He had the worry of the issues, he had to take the van to 
have faults diagnosed at a garage. Hes had to arrange alternative transport. And hes had to 
attend an inspection with an independent expert. All of this would have had an impact on 
Mr E. And I consider £200 to be broadly fair given what went wrong  taking into account 
what I can consider against MIVF. 
I think the main thing in dispute between the parties relates to the loss of income. Mr E is 
essentially claiming damages or financial losses as a result of a breach of contract. But 
theres quite a lot to think about when deciding whether losses should be payable in these 
sorts of scenarios. The sort of things I need to think about are whether the losses were 
directly flowing from the breach of contract; whether Mr E has tried to mitigate his losses; 
and whether they were reasonably foreseeable or too remote. 
The problem in this case is that I dont find I have the grounds to say MIVF should be 
responsible for the loss of income Mr E says hes incurred. MIVF wasnt aware of the issue 
initially, so it couldnt have done anything to help in the first few weeks. It liaised with the 
parties involved to get things resolved. An independent report was carried out and the expert 
said Mr E had been using a hire vehicle for work. Mr E had sensibly been taking steps to 
mitigate. But I cant then direct MIVF to award loss of income when Mr E had been using another vehicle for work. Moreover, Mr E has shown us notes of invoices and a statement 
from mid-2022 showing income. But this isnt enough for me to determine what, if anything, 
Mr E lost out as a result of the issues with the van. So I dont have the grounds to direct 
MIVF to reimburse Mr E for loss of income. And Im also mindful MIVF isnt asking Mr E to 
pay anything for use of the van  albeit that use was impaired.  I think this has to be taken 
into account when deciding what MIVF needs to do to put things right. 
With regards to the road tax paid, I have to bear in mind that Mr E was required to tax the 
van. Ive thought about whether he should cover the tax for the first month, or up until MIVF 
were put on notice. But given hes had hardly any use of the van, in the very particular 
circumstances of this complaint, I consider it fair he receives a refund of the tax hes paid but 
hell need to provide sufficient evidence of that in response to this provisional decision. 
I think the rest of the recommendations made by our investigator seem broadly fair. So Im 
intending to come to the same conclusion. One final thing I will mention is that I can see 
Mr E has been hiring vehicles for work. Mr Es monthly repayments towards his van under 
the hire purchase agreement were around £330. If hes paid more than this monthly towards 
hire vehicles, he should supply sufficient evidence in response to the provisional decision 
and Ill consider it. I would look at what period the hire was for, whether the vehicle was 
equivalent and so on. But for the avoidance of doubt, this will not mean hell be getting 
double recovery. It wouldnt be fair for Mr E to receive a full refund of payments towards the 
hire purchase agreement and the full hire costs. But Im willing to consider evidence if hes 
ended up paying more than £330 monthly for hire vehicles.
I proposed MIVF:
1. end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
2. collect the van (if this has not been done already) at no further cost to Mr E;
3. refund Mr Es deposit contribution of £3,500;
4. refund Mr E all repayments;
5. refund Mr E £80 for the report carried out on 14 February 2023.
6. refund Mr E road tax payments, upon receipt of sufficient evidence. 
7. pay 8% simple yearly interest* on all refunded amounts from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement;
8. pay a further amount of £200 for any trouble and upset thats been caused due to the 
faulty goods;
9. remove any adverse information from Mr Es credit file in relation to the agreement.
We received responses from MIVF and Mr E. I wrote a side letter to the parties saying:
I want to thank the parties for their responses. MIVF has supplied a response from the 
supplying dealer. But this seems mainly focussed on the quality of the goods. I should point 
out that Im considering a complaint against MIVF, as the supplier of the goods, under the 
hire purchase agreement. Ive found the goods werent of satisfactory quality. And MIVF has 
already agreed to rejection. So Im not going to go over that again. 
The purpose of this letter is to follow up from my provisional decision because I asked 
(Mr E) to supply any evidence he was paying more than £330 per month for hire vehicles. 
Mr E has shown us that between the end of March and the beginning of October hed paid 
around £6,500 towards hire vehicles. Hes supplied invoices from the rental company. 
I asked our investigator to speak to Mr E about the invoices. In summary he said he acquired 
the van mainly for working, but with some personal use as well. I noted there were different sorts of vehicles that were hired. There were some vans, but 
there were also some cars as well. Mr E told our investigator that the vans were more 
expensive to hire. He said it would cost around £80 a day to hire a van but it was closer to 
£30 a day to hire a car. Mr E said he had a friend who was dropping off work equipment for 
him as well to help. 
I also noted that some of the cars that were hired were of a higher class than the most basic 
ones. I wanted to know if Mr E had shopped around for the best deal. Mr E said he hired a 
small or medium car, but it depended on availability. 
I saw that MIVF issued its response in May 2023 and it looks like it was willing to pick up the 
van from June. I asked our investigator to explain that I dont think Id have the grounds to 
direct MIVF to reimburse anything paid for hire from June onwards. I think this is fair. 
Ive thought about the evidence submitted. Mr E paid around £2,360 for hire cars up until the 
end of May 2023. The monthly payments for that period total around £660. 
Theres no exact scientific formula to use to work out what Mr E should be reimbursed. 
When thinking about consequential losses, I need to think about whether they were directly 
flowing from the breach of contract; whether they were reasonably foreseeable; whether 
theres a break in the chain of causation; and whether Mr E has mitigated the losses. 
I dont think itd be fair to direct MIVF to refund Mr E everything he paid for the hire vehicles. 
They werent all comparable. And while I can see he went to the same hire company and 
explained he only took higher classed vehicles when the basic ones werent available, 
ultimately he could have shopped around more and potentially found a better deal. But 
taking all that into account, I consider up to the end of May at least, Mr E would have 
expected to be using the van he acquired for £330 per month. The van wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. It was intended to be used for work, so I think it was reasonably foreseeable for 
MIVF that Mr E may have incurred other costs to stay mobile and be able to work. And I 
think those losses flow from the breach of contract. I think Mr E has taken some steps to 
mitigate the losses. But, for the two months Ive mentioned, hes ended up paying around 
£1,700 more than he expected, or ought to have done had there not been a problem with the 
van. 
In the round, given what Ive said above, I think he should also be reimbursed another 
£1,000 towards the hire car costs. Its a coincidence this is the amount our investigator 
originally recommended. Im not trying to put Mr E in a better position he otherwise would 
have been in. Im aiming to reach a fair and reasonable outcome for all parties involved. 
Im pleased to note that MIVF, in response to our investigators recommendations, when 
talking about Mr E hiring a replacement van, also said: 
If the rentals for any such replacement exceeded the monthly payments under the credit 
agreement, then there might be a case for saying that he should, in addition, be entitled to 
the difference if reasonably incurred, but not otherwise.
I think the difference was reasonably incurred. And Ive tried to be fair to everyone in my 
calculations. 
So, in addition to whats already been recommended, Im proposing to direct MIVF to also 
reimburse Mr E another £1,000. 
Mr E responded to say MIVF should be paying him more. He said its unfair hes only getting 
£1,000 back for the rentals when he spent £6,500. He said its not fair he was required to shop around for cheaper rentals, and that the hire company he found was the cheapest. He 
said hed lost work because of the issue and that the compensation wasnt sufficient for the 
distress and inconvenience. Mr E said MIVF should cover at least half the fees. MIVF 
ultimately accepted the outcome and didnt have anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank the parties for their responses. It seems the only thing left in dispute is the 
amount MIVF needs to pay Mr E. I can understand why Mr E would like MIVF to reimburse 
him more towards the hire costs. Hes spent a lot of money and I do empathise with the 
situation. Like I said in the side letter, theres no exact science to use in this sort of situation. 
I need to be fair to both parties. Theres lots to think about with consequential losses. Mr E 
will have any payments hed made refunded, so hed always have had to pay something to 
get around. I drew the line in June because this is when it looked like MIVF were willing to 
pick up the van. I cant fairly direct MIVF to reimburse Mr E anything hes paid from then. 
While I appreciate it would have been inconvenient for Mr E to have to arrange the hire cars 
and for him to have to shop around, I do need to think about whether he mitigated the losses 
sufficiently. He hired different sorts of vehicles, that werent all comparable. And he hired the 
vehicles over a quite a long-term including weekdays and weekends for business and 
personal use. The figure I reached was the figure he accepted when our investigator sent 
her assessment (albeit for different reasons). Moreover, Im conscious that with the remedy 
proposed, Mr E wont have to pay for any use of the van that he had, although I appreciate 
there were issues with it. But he had around 800 miles of use that I also need to factor in. Im 
required to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum formality. So, in the round, I 
thought a payment of £1,000 seemed like a fair way to put things right for the parties and to 
help everyone draw a line under things. And I still think thats right.   
Putting things right
To resolve the complaint MI Vehicle Finance Limited should:
1. end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
2. collect the van (if this has not been done already) at no further cost to Mr E;
3. refund Mr Es deposit contribution of £3,500;
4. refund Mr E all repayments;
5. refund Mr E £80 for the report carried out on 14 February 2023.
6. refund Mr E road tax payments upon MIVFs receipt of evidence. 
7. pay 8% simple yearly interest* on all refunded amounts from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement;
8. pay Mr E £1,000 towards the hire car costs;
9. pay £200 compensation;
10. remove any adverse information from Mr Es credit file in relation to the agreement.
*If MIVF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr E how much tax its taken off. It should also give Mr E a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct MI Vehicle Finance Limited to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman