DRN-3233926
The complaint
Mr P complains that Vanquis Bank Ltd reported loan payment arrears on his credit file when 
theyd said they wouldnt.
What happened
Mr P had a personal loan and credit card with Vanquis. In or around April 2020, he contacted 
Vanquis and told them his income had been negatively impacted as a result of the global 
pandemic.
Vanquis agreed payment holidays for both his loan and credit card from April 2020 to 
October 2020. Mr Ps income situation hadnt improved by the time these arrangements 
finished. So, he contacted Vanquis to explain his situation and ask for further support.
Vanquis agreed payment plans for Mr Ps personal loan and credit card accounts. They 
agreed he could pay £1 each month to each account. They told him that no arrears would be 
reported on his credit file if he maintained those payments. They confirmed that his credit file 
would show that a payment arrangement was in place. Mr P accepted Vanquis offer of 
support and maintained payments, as agreed.
In January 2021, Mr P noticed that Vanquis had reported arrears on his credit file in respect 
of his personal loan, despite him maintaining the reduced payments agreed. But they hadnt 
reported arrears on his credit card account. Mr P contacted Vanquis as he thought theyd 
made a mistake. But Vanquis didnt think they had. So, Mr P raised a complaint with them.
Vanquis responded to Mr Ps complaint by letter in February 2021. They said they hadnt 
made any mistakes in reporting the information they had. But they did accept theyd had 
misinformed Mr P during his telephone conversation with them. To compensate Mr P, 
Vanquis credited £25 to Mr Ps credit card account.
Mr P wasnt happy with Vanquis response to his complaint. He thought the information 
reported to the credit reference agencies wasnt right, as hed maintained payments under 
the new arrangement. So, he asked this service to investigate his complaint for him.
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr Ps complaint. They didnt agree that Vanquis had 
made a mistake reporting the information they had. But our adjudicator did agree Mr P had 
been misinformed. They asked Vanquis if they might consider increasing the compensation 
theyd paid to Mr P. But Vanquis thought the compensation theyd already paid was fair.
Mr P didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. He said, Different choices could have been 
made at the time if this information was relayed to me correctly. As an agreement couldnt 
be reached, Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and where 
consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised to 
freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
Vanquis agreed payment deferrals for Mr Ps personal loan and credit card accounts for a 
total of six months until October 2020. The missed payments, during this time, werent 
reported on Mr Ps credit file. So, it appears Vanquis complied with the FCAs guidance.
The FCAs credit sourcebook (CONC) provides rules and guidance for situations where a 
consumer is experiencing financial difficulty. These rules are distinct and separate from the 
FCAs COVID payment deferral guidance and generally apply where any difficulties are 
considered to be more long term or serious by nature. CONC 7 includes the following:
Lenders should consider consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration. Examples include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments 
to be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from unexpected reduction in income
But unlike the COVID payment deferral guidance, businesses are still required to report any 
arrangement or arrears to the credit reference agencies.
As Mr P was still unable to maintain payments under the agreements, Vanquis agreed to   
accept reduced payments of £1 each month to each account as part of a reduced payment 
arrangement. These arrangements would be reported on Mr Ps credit file with the credit 
reference agencies, so would be visible to any other prospective lenders going forward.
Unfortunately, when these arrangements were agreed, Vanquis told Mr P that they wouldnt 
report any arrears on Mr Ps credit file for either the personal loan or credit card accounts. 
Vanquis have agreed that Mr P was misinformed here. 
Theyve since explained that provided the £1 payments were maintained to Mr Ps credit 
card account, no arrears would be reported. A credit card is a revolving credit facility. As 
such, it isnt subject to a structured repayment profile. This means that the balance owed can 
fluctuate and the amount of interest and term of the debt isnt set at the outset.  
The same principal doesnt apply for Mr Ps personal loan. The loan term and interest 
amount are fixed at the outset and documented in the associated loan agreement. Accepting 
that Vanquis agreed a reduced payment plan for a period, they still need to report on Mr Ps 
credit file that the originally agreed repayments werent being made. Vanquis would be 
obliged to do that under the reporting guidance and rules set by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). So, I cant reasonably say that Vanquis made a mistake here. 
Mr P told this service he wouldve made different choices if hed been informed correctly, at 
the outset. He said he wouldve accepted financial help offered by family members. Mr P 
also said the loan was repaid using that family support, once he was aware that arrears were 
being reported. Mr P became aware of the reported arrears in January 2021, but he said the 
loan wasnt repaid until May 2021. Having agreed they misinformed Mr P, Vanquis paid compensation of £25 to his credit card 
account. And I think its fair they recognised their mistake here. But Vanquis havent agreed 
to increase that amount.
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Mr P did experience some inconvenience. But I dont think 
Vanquis made a mistake in reporting what they did. I also havent seen anything to suggest 
Mr P couldve repaid his loan sufficiently early enough to avoid any arrears being reported at 
all. So, the Vanquisoffer feels fair in these circumstances. I appreciate Mr P doesnt agree. 
But it isnt the role of this service to make awards in order to penalise Vanquis for their 
mistakes. Any award is considered based upon the impact Vanquiss mistake had upon Mr 
P. And I think Vanquis have done that here.
I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed, but I shant be asking Vanquis to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman