DRN-3935508
The complaint
Mr M complains that he couldnt open a credit card account with Vanquis Bank Limited 
(Vanquis).
What happened
On 11 November 2022, Mr M applied for a credit card from Vanquis. He passed the initial 
credit checks. Vanquis sent an SMS to Mr M on 16 November 2022 asking him to upload 
various documents concerning identity and address verification (IDV). Mr M was advised his 
application was declined. On 21 November 2022, Vanquis sent Mr M a letter asking for the 
IDV documents again. The letter gave a 30-day deadline to respond. On 8 December 2022, 
Mr M contacted Vanquis and was told his application had been declined and he had to apply 
again if he wanted a card.
Mr M complained. He said he sent in the IDV documents on 8 December 2022, and that was 
within the timescale. He said his application should be looked at again and approved. He 
didnt see why he should have to apply again.
Vanquis said that when the documents were uploaded online on 16 November 2022, they 
couldnt be used to verify Mr Ms identity and his application was terminated. They said he 
could make a new application if he wished.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said he could see that Mr Ms application 
had been correctly declined  as the IDV documents werent approved by Vanquis. That was 
because the bank statement he sent wasnt a copy of an original. Vanquis sent an SMS text 
to say his application had been declined. But they then sent a letter dated 21 November 
2022 to Mr M asking for the same IDV documents.  Our investigator said this raised Mr Ms 
expectations that his application would be approved and caused confusion. So  Mr M 
contacted Vanquis again on 8 December 2022 (i.e. within the 30-day time limit)  unaware 
that his application had been declined. Therefore, the letter dated 21 November 2022 was 
misleading. For that, he said compensation of £50 should be paid.
Vanquis agreed, but Mr M asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint  and so it has 
come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Vanquis records of Mr Ms application dated 11 November 2022. It looks like 
he passed the initial credit checks, and Vanquis then asked him to upload documents to 
verify his identity and address (IDV). He uploaded those on 16 November 2022  twice. But 
Vanquis said they didnt meet their requirements  I can see that one upload was a photo of 
a bank statement on a computer screen. And that wasnt accepted by Vanquis. But here  it 
is for Vanquis to make their own judgments as to whether they accept Mr Ms documents or 
not  we cant ask them to reverse their decision.
I can then see that Vanquis sent Mr M a text on 16 November 2022 - which said after 
careful consideration we regret to inform youyour documents have not passed our 
checkswe are unable to progress your application to the next stage. Please feel free to 
apply again with us in the future. So I consider that this text was clear  Mr Ms application 
had been declined. And he could start a new application again if he wanted to.
Vanquis then sent a letter dated 21 November 2022  which asked for the same IDV 
documents. It gave a deadline of 30 days to do that. We asked Vanquis more about the 
letter  and they told us that it didnt mean that Mr Ms application was still live  as his 
application was declined on 16 November 2022. So  I agree that the letter was misleading. 
Mr M contacted Vanquis again on 8 December 2022 to upload his IDV documents, but 
Vanquis process was such that the application had been declined on 16 November 2022  
and after that, Mr M had to re-apply. I cant ask Vanquis to change their process  thats not 
our role.
Mr M has argued that his application should be looked at again  but for the reasons Ive 
given, Im not going to ask Vanquis to do that. Therefore, if he still wants a credit card from 
Vanquis, Id encourage him to apply again. 
But  I do agree that the letter dated 21 November 2022 was misleading in the 
circumstances and that compensation of £50 should be paid for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Vanquis Bank Limited must:
Pay compensation for £50 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman