DRN-2808652
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money handled a balance 
transfer from his credit card.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr A requested a balance transfer to be sent from his Virgin Money credit 
card to another bank. The transfer didnt reach the recipient bank, so Mr A complained to 
Virgin Money.
Virgin Money said the transfer was made to the recipient bank with the reference number 
Mr A had provided and so didnt uphold the complaint. Virgin Money requested a recall of the 
funds, but at that time it hadnt been successful.
Remaining unhappy about the missing transfer Mr A brought his complaint to our service 
where one of our investigators looked into what happened. Whilst acknowledging the 
situation they didnt think that Virgin Money had made any errors with the transfer. 
Whilst the complaint was with our service Virgin Money received the funds back and they 
were credited to Mr As account. Mr A remained unhappy as the delays had caused interest 
to be charged, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to start by saying that my role isnt to decide what happened to the 
transfer and how the problem happened, rather its to decide what I think about Virgin 
Moneys role in making the transfer. This is an important distinction. 
Virgin Money have provided evidence which shows they made the transfer to the recipient 
bank with the reference number given to them by Mr A. This is a system screen showing the 
details of the outgoing transfer. So Im satisfied that Virgin Money acted correctly on Mr As 
request.
When Mr A realised there was a problem he contacted Virgin Money who attempted to recall 
the funds. This is what I would expect them to do in a situation like this. So again Im 
satisfied with how they acted. 
Virgin Money received the funds back from the recipient bank however it didnt have the 
correct reference number so the funds were returned. This obviously added frustration for 
Mr A however without the correct reference number Virgin Money werent able to allocate 
the funds, so I dont think any mistakes were made. 
Having carefully considered the actions of Virgin Money Im satisfied they acted fairly and 
reasonably and didnt make any errors. Virgin Money made the transfer as requested by 
Mr A using the reference number he gave them.
But all of this doesnt solve the problem for Mr A as something clearly did go wrong. Whilst 
its not my role to decide upon the actions of the other bank, I thought it might be useful to 
add some extra information about what I think mostly likely happened.
The bank Mr A was making the transfer to uses a handling bank. This means that transfers 
have to go through the handling bank and arent sent straight to the recipient bank. Im 
satisfied that the transfer left Virgin Money with the correct reference number. The recipient 
bank has confirmed to Mr A that when the transfer arrived there the reference number was 
incorrect. I cant say for certain, but it seems most likely to me that a problem happened with 
the reference number when the funds were being forwarded through the handling bank. 
Virgin Money have also said they are unable to change the reference number input by a 
consumer on transfers like this.
After weighing up all the evidence I think Virgin Money acted correctly on Mr As instruction. 
They also acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with the problem and trying to recall the 
funds. Thats not to say that Mr A hasnt been affected by what happened; I think he clearly 
has. However I dont think the problems were caused by Virgin Money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman