DRN-2875081
The complaint
Ms A has complained about the way Experian Limited worked out her credit score.
What happened
Ms A took out car insurance through a finance arrangement, and her credit score dropped. 
She was unhappy as she said shed been keeping up with her payments. She also didnt 
know this agreement would be recorded on her credit file. She felt that the credit referencing 
system in general was unjust, and that Experian had discriminated against her and reduced 
her credit score based on her race.
Our investigator looked into things independently. She explained that Experians credit score 
was just an illustration for customers of how Experian thought lenders might look at their file. 
Lenders use their own methods to decide whether to lend. She also explained that the score 
was based on the credit file data, not race, and she couldnt see that Experian had 
discriminated against Ms A or caused her any detriment. Lastly, she explained that Ms A had 
entered into a payment plan for her car insurance, and she would have given the company 
permission to report things on her credit file when she signed up  but she could always 
complain to that company directly if she felt she hadnt.
Ms A didnt agree. She felt Experian had unfairly deemed her a higher risk when shed been 
keeping up with her payments. She said shed been inconvenienced by having her score 
decrease, and felt the decrease was too large. She felt we didnt have enough information to 
say that she hadnt been discriminated against.
She asked for her case to be reviewed afresh, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can certainly understand why Ms A would want to keep her credit file in good shape and 
I appreciate her point of view and strength of feeling. I imagine it may well have been 
disappointing to see her score go down when shes been making efforts to keep up with all 
her payments.
I will clarify what Experians credit score is, as I understand Ms A is under the impression 
that this score will harm or inconvenience her, and I hope I can help alleviate her worries 
there. Theres a common misconception that the credit reference agencys score is universal 
and that lenders make all their decisions based on it. But the credit score Ms A sees is just 
an illustration of how Experian reckons lenders might look at her credit history. Its not a 
guarantee of what any given lender will think. Its just a general indication, which helps 
customers get a simple overview of how their credit file might be looked at. Lenders have 
their own criteria for how they assess credit applications and reviews, and usually have their 
own scoring systems too. So while I understand Ms A may have felt disheartened when her 
score went down, it was not a guarantee that any particular lender would see the change in 
a bad way or that shed be turned down for any particular credit.
I understand that Ms A has concerns about the way credit referencing and credit scoring 
work in general. I will clarify that we are not a regulator. So we do not look after how 
businesses work in general and I cannot make them change their systems. Its the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) who regulate financial businesses, and its the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) who oversee data protection and information rights issues. 
Were here to look at individual complaints about individual situations. So I cannot consider 
Ms As wider concerns about the way the industry works. I can consider things like whether 
Experian recorded something incorrectly on her file or whether they discriminated against 
her in this individual case.
I also understand Ms A didnt think her car insurance would go on her credit file, as she says 
it wasnt a loan. There are some types of accounts that go on credit files even if they dont 
involve lending  for example, Ms A may have seen things like telephone contracts being 
recorded too. Though in this case, I can see Ms As car insurance was arranged through a 
company who provide finance to pay for the insurance up front, then take repayments as 
part of a credit agreement. So it does appear to have been a form of lending. And when she 
signed up with this company, she would usually have given them permission to record the 
account on her credit file. Ms A can complain to that company separately if she feels they 
misadvised her, or raise a dispute if she feels the company gave Experian the wrong 
information. But as things stand, it looks like Experian are correctly reporting the information 
they were given there.
Ive thought very carefully about what Ms A told us about being discriminated against. I hope 
I can assure her that her Experian credit score is not based on her race or ethnicity, and that 
that was not a factor in it decreasing. Ms A has rightly pointed out that we dont have the full 
algorithm Experian use to work out scores. But I dont think we need it. Those calculations 
are made based on the data on Ms As credit file. And Ms As credit file does not record her 
race or ethnicity  she can see this for herself if she looks at her file. Its not a factor for 
Experian or lenders to take into account.
Further, I have looked at Experians internal records, including the factors which led to the 
score change. I can see that, as Experian said, her score decreased based on factors such 
as having a new credit account and having a larger credit balance. It was not based on her 
race. Its also worth bearing in mind that, even if Ms As been keeping up with payments over 
recent years, her file goes back six years and historic problems such as defaults or court 
judgements will continue to affect how lenders look at her file until they fall off. So having 
such things on ones file can also make it harder for the score to go up.
Its worth reiterating that, as I said above, Ms As credit score is just an indication of how 
Experian thinks lenders might assess her file. I cant see that its caused her any detriment, 
and I cant see that Experian did anything wrong in this particular case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms As complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman