DRN-3986817
The complaint
Mr G complains DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) wrongly refused to 
pay the legal costs he incurred in appealing a statutory improvement notice (SIN) served on 
him by his local council.
Where I refer to Mr G, I include his representative.
What happened
Mr G had landlords legal expenses insurance (LEI) with DAS that had been arranged for 
him through an intermediary that Ill call Firm S between November 2021 and November 
2022.
In March 2022 the council served a SIN on Mr G requiring him to carry out works of repair to 
a rental property he owned. Mr G appealed the notice and made a claim on his policy with 
DAS afterwards for the legal costs hed incurred. DAS declined the claim on grounds the 
policy didnt provide cover for a statutory notice dispute.
Mr G complained. He said, in summary:
Hed contacted Firm S in mid-April whod confirmed hed be covered.
When hed asked if similar claims had been made by other policyholders - so he had 
confidence the LEI would meet his costs if he instructed solicitors - Firm S had said 
they werent uncommon and had generally all been paid out.
Firm S said they wouldnt be able to open a claim with a reference until the tribunal 
reference number was available; that could only be obtained once an appeal had 
been made; but Mr G said hed asked Firm S to record hed made a claim.
Firm S had said he should go ahead and instruct the solicitors and claim the costs 
back afterwards.
Based on what Firm S had told him, Mr G expected cover to be provided.
DAS didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. They said they and Firm S are separate entities and 
DAS couldnt comment on any advice Firm S had given; appeal of a SIN isnt an event 
covered under the policy; and, in any event, theres an exclusion for Any costs and 
expenses, hotel expenses or storage costs that are incurred before [DAS] agree to pay 
them.
Mr G was unhappy with DASs response, so he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator said the policy didnt provide cover. DAS and Firm S 
are separate firms. Firm S dont make decisions on claims. Since DAS hadnt been aware of 
the claim, they couldnt be held responsible if Firm S had wrongly told him it would be 
covered. Mr G didnt accept our investigators view. And since the complaint hasnt been 
resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I may not mention here everything the parties have said. No discourtesy is intended by that. 
It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Ill focus on what I think is key 
in coming to my decision. I note Mr Gs strength of feeling. But, as Ill explain, Ive come to 
the same outcome as our investigator for broadly similar reasons. 
We expect insurers to consider claims fairly and promptly and not to decline claims 
unreasonably. Ive considered Mr Gs complaint against that background, starting with the 
policy wording.
Broadly, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy, Mr G had cover for up to £50,000 
of legal expenses in relation to the insured events set out in the policy. I agree with DAS that 
an insured event didnt happen here. Although Mr G had cover for legal defence, that was 
limited to defending a criminal prosecution and an appeal against a decision not to adapt a 
property following certain statutory requests. None of those situations arose in Mr Gs case. 
And, even if they had, any costs and expenses incurred before DAS had agreed to pay them 
werent covered.
The policy terms were clear, fair and not misleading on these points as Id expect them to be 
to comply with Financial Conduct Authority requirements. The issue is whether, in the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint, its fair and reasonable for DAS to have declined the 
claim. 
In summary, Mr G makes the following key points: 
He bought the policy through Firm S. 
The policy schedule includes DASs logo and contains a footer referring to the 
registration/authorisation of DAS which suggests they agree the information it sets 
out. 
The policy schedule directs the policyholder to contact Firm S, not DAS. 
He rang Firm S on a number provided.
It was reasonable for him to rely on the information Firm S gave that he could go 
ahead with the appeal and claim the costs under the policy retrospectively.
DAS should be held responsible for making sure the right information appears in the 
policy documents and that Firm S give out the right information since they sell 
policies for DAS and act on their behalf. DAS should compensate the policyholder for 
Firm Ss mistakes and take things up with Firm S themselves.
DAS say: 
There is no cover under the policy. 
Firm S issue policy documentation as they sell policies on DASs behalf, but they 
also arrange other insurance with other insurers with or without DAS legal cover.
Firm S are a separate company and arent authorised to handle claims on behalf of 
DAS - they arent involved in advising, providing guidance or making decisions about 
claims under the DAS LEI insurance.
The policy schedule says it should always be read with the policy wording. 
The policy wording set out the number to ring to make a claim. It explained a decision 
on cover wouldnt be made then, a claim form would need to be completed and 
forwarded to the claims handling team, and an explanation about what to do next 
would be provided.
The policy schedule set out clearly the number to call to make a claim. That number 
directs to DAS. Mr G didnt ring the claims number, but another general contact number for making 
policy changes. 
Im conscious Mr G had around three weeks between receiving the SIN and appealing it. So, 
time was relatively tight. But I think its reasonable to expect him to have been aware of the 
contents of his policy and to have reviewed it before making a claim. If hed done that, I think 
he ought reasonably to have understood DAS were the insurers; a claim form would need to 
be completed before the claim could be assessed and cover confirmed; DAS made 
decisions about whether a claim would be covered, not Firm S; and DAS wouldnt pay costs 
if theyd been incurred before DAS had agreed them. The policy set out the claims process 
in terms that were clear, fair and not misleading. 
Theres no dispute Mr G rang the general contact number rather than the claims line. Even 
though there was a separate claims number, I think it was reasonable for Mr G to think, 
based on the policy documents, that all calls went through to Firm S and hed be able to 
discuss his situation by ringing any of them. 
Our experience of calling Firm S suggests its possible, depending on the options selected, 
to be directed to DAS or to discuss a new claim with Firm S. Mr G recalls selecting the 
claims option when he called, although its not clear how far Mr G got in that process. But I 
dont think it matters. Firm S have confirmed, broadly, that if a customer contacts them about 
a claim, theyd refer them to DAS to discuss it. That doesnt seem to have been Mr Gs 
experience. But its in line with the policy wording and DASs evidence as to Firm Ss role in 
relation to claims handling. 
On balance, given the clear policy wording and the different roles Firm S and DAS fulfil, I 
dont think its fair to blame DAS if an individual at Firm S acted outside their usual 
processes. I understand Mr G may be complaining to Firm S direct, as hes entitled to. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr G will be disappointed, I dont uphold his 
complaint against DAS for what happened here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman