DRN-1921931
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave misleading advice about the charges 
involved in receiving non-sterling funds to his sterling account. Mr W, who holds a lasting 
power of attorney for Mr D, has brought this complaint on his behalf.    
What happened
Mr W has explained that Mr D wanted to make a transfer of €45,000 from an account in 
France to his sterling account held with Barclays. Mr W's wife asked about the costs of doing 
so and was told that there were no charges for transfers within the Single Euro Payments 
Area (or SEPA), which includes France and the UK.
After the payment had been made, Mr W queried the amount that Mr D had received; it was 
less than he had been expecting. The bank explained that it added a margin to the reference 
exchange rate, but also referred to a commission. Mr W said he hadn't been told that there 
would be a commission; had that been mentioned, he would have made different 
arrangements, such as arranging for the currency conversion before sending the money.
Barclays accepted that it hadn't explained things as well as it could have done, even after Mr 
W had asked how the payment had been calculated. It agreed to pay Mr D £50 in 
recognition of that, and also paid some compensation to Mr W. Mr W didn't think the bank 
had done enough, however and referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He agreed that Barclays hadn't 
provided clear enough information or handled the complaint very well. Initially, he suggested 
the bank pay Mr D a further £100, but later revised that figure to £200 (in addition to the £50 
already paid). Barclays agreed to that suggestion, but Mr W didn't think it went far enough. 
Specifically, he said that, had he been told that Barclays would add a margin to the 
exchange rate, he would have sought and obtained a better deal elsewhere.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said that it didn't charge a fee for SEPA payments. In my view that was, strictly 
speaking, correct. There's no fixed fee or extra commission for SEPA payments in the way 
that there is for some other overseas payments for which the bank charges £6.
The way Barclays charges for transactions such as this one is, therefore, through exchange 
rate differences. Its website explains that it uses a reference rate and adds a margin, but 
also that the rate fluctuates and is updated every five minutes. 
I agree with the investigator therefore that Mr D's complaint is really about the exchange rate 
used and about the lack of information provided about it. Like the adjudicator, I agree that Barclays didn't provide inaccurate or misleading information about its exchange rate. It said 
in its literature that the rate would vary and that there would be a margin added to it.
I do believe however that it would have been good practice of the bank, when asked about 
charges, to have explained that, whilst there was no fixed fee or commission on transfers, it 
does add a margin to the reference exchange rate. In saying that, I acknowledge of course 
that the bank wasn't able to say what the reference exchange rate might be or what margin 
would be added. The information it could give would therefore have been of only limited 
value to Mr W. 
I also think that, when Mr W raised this with the bank, it could have explained things much 
more clearly and more accurately than it did. For example, it said that the margin it had used 
was 2.75%, whereas in fact it was 1.9%. And it referred variously to "commission" and to a 
"margin", where it might have been more helpful to use consistent terminology.
I'm not persuaded though that, even if the bank had told Mr W's wife that it would add a 
margin to the exchange rate it used, he would have done anything different. Other providers 
may have offered better rates but charged a fee; some offer a guaranteed exchange rate, 
but the customer runs the risk of rates changing against them. That's not to say that Mr W 
wouldn't have been able to find a better deal for Mr D, and no doubt he could have done. I'm 
not persuaded however that knowing that Barclays added a variable margin to a variable 
exchange rate would have caused him to do anything different.
Putting things right
For these reasons I agree that the investigator's proposal that Barclays pay Mr D a further 
£200 (making £250 in total) is a fair resolution here. Barclays has agreed to that proposal, 
but I'll make a formal award so that Mr S can enforce it, should he need to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr D's complaint, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay him 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman