DRN-1374095
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance ("PPI") 
policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy which Mr D took out in 1995, when he 
applied to Lloyds for a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicator's view, so 
the complaint's been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I think's most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have. 
I've decided not to uphold Mr D's complaint. I'll explain why.
I've seen a copy of Mr D's signed application for the credit card. It includes a section 
headed "OPTIONAL FEATURES" in large letters. Immediately beneath that is a 
section headed "Payment Protection Plan". It says "To protect your Access 
repayments against accident, death, sickness and involuntary unemployment, please 
tick here". The box was ticked, indicating that Mr D wished to take the cover.
 
I acknowledge that Mr D has commented that although the signature on the form is 
his, the form wasn't completed in his handwriting. But even if Mr D didn't tick the box 
himself, I think it's likely, on balance, that it was ticked because he indicated that he 
wished to take the cover. And I think Mr D could reasonably have been expected to 
check the form over before signing. Taking everything into account, I'm satisfied that 
Lloyds made it clear on the form that the PPI was optional.  And I think Mr D decided 
to take the cover, knowing that he had a choice, although I can understand how he 
may no longer remember this, so many years later.
 It isn't fully clear how Mr D applied for the credit card and PPI. He's told us he applied 
by post and that Lloyds didn't advise him to take out the PPI. Lloyds no longer has a 
record of how Mr D applied for the card. If he applied for the card in a branch of the 
bank, it's possible that Lloyds recommended the policy to him. And if it did, it had a 
responsibility to check that the policy was suitable for him. So in order to be fair to  
Mr D, I've assumed that Lloyds did recommend the policy to him, as this puts an 
extra responsibility on Lloyds.
 
Mr D's told us that he'd have been entitled to between six and twelve months' pay 
from his employer if he'd been off sick. But if he'd made a successful claim on the 
PPI for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have helped with his monthly 
credit card payments for up to 12 months. That's longer than I think it's likely Mr D 
would have received full sick pay for. What's more, the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mr D received from his employer. So he could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day expenses. And he could have kept any savings he 
had for the future, or used them to meet other expenses at what it's likely would have 
been a difficult time.
 
Based on what he's told us about his circumstances at the time, Mr D was eligible for 
the PPI. And taking everything into account, I think the policy could have been useful 
to him.
 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I've explained that I'm satisfied that Mr D chose to take out the 
policy. So he appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably 
forgotten that now, so long after the event. Based on what hes told us about his 
circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
(for example, provisions about unusual working arrangements or existing medical 
conditions). So I think it's unlikely that Mr D would have made a different decision 
about taking the PPI cover, even if better information had been provided.
 
I don't know whether Mr D knew how much the policy would cost before he decided 
to take it out. But it was clear from the application form that there'd be premiums to 
pay for the PPI. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
Mr D's commented that the fact that the payments for the PPI were included on his 
monthly statements indicated to him that they were "part and parcel" of the credit 
card agreement. But having opted to take the PPI, I'm satisfied that he'd have known 
what the premiums related to at the time. 
 
Mr D's commented that he wasn't provided with any breakdown of how the costs 
were made up. But I don't think it's likely, on balance, that more detailed information 
about this would have put him off taking the policy out. Ultimately, I think he opted to 
take the PPI because he wanted the protection the policy gave. He would have seen 
how much he was paying for the policy on his monthly credit card statements. And 
since Mr D was paying for the policy monthly, he could have cancelled it at any time 
with no further cost if he decided he no longer wanted it. So I'm not convinced, on 
balance, that better information about the cost of the policy would have put Mr D off 
taking it out.
 I've taken into account all Mr D's comments, including what he's said about not remembering 
having received any policy document or schedule for the PPI. But based on what we know 
about its processes at the time, I think it's likely that Lloyds would have sent Mr D a policy 
document, and that he'd have received it. Again, I don't think it's surprising if Mr D doesn't 
remember this more than 20 years later.
Mr D has also suggested that the policy may have been for a fixed term. But I'm satisfied 
that that wasn't the case.
I can see that Mr D has put time and effort into his complaint, and I realise that he'll be 
disappointed at the outcome. But on balance, looking at all the information I've got, I can't 
fairly and reasonably say that the policy was mis-sold to him.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman