DRN-3407790
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the service and the repairs Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) completed when they successfully claimed under their buildings insurance 
for water damage. The policy is in joint names and a family member, Mr M, represented 
them. For ease, Ill refer only to Mr K throughout my decision.
What happened
Admiral appointed contractors to complete repair works after Mr Ks home was damaged by 
water leaking through his roof. Because the bathroom and kitchen were damaged, and Mr 
and Mrs K were vulnerable, Admiral arranged for alternative accommodation and storage for 
their possessions. 
On return to his home, Mr K complained to Admiral about the following:
Some of his belongings werent returned from storage or were damaged.
The cooker hood wasnt installed correctly.
The waste skip damaged his driveway.
The fridge freezer wasn't installed properly so his door wont fully open.
The extractor hoods isolation switch is inaccessible.
The boiler flue is inaccessible so it cant be serviced.
Admiral didnt treat him fairly or acknowledge his and Mrs Ks vulnerable position 
during the pandemic.
Although Admiral thought it hadnt managed part of Mr Ks claim well, and it addressed that 
with him directly, it didnt think it had done anything wrong in respect of these points. Admiral 
said its contractors visited but couldnt see any issue with the flue and isolation switch, or the 
fridge freezer. It also pointed out that they were private arrangements between Mr K and the 
contractors. Admiral said it would consider any missing or damaged items if Mr K could 
provide evidence, and it had already offered to inspect the driveway for damage and cash 
settle if needed. 
Our investigator upheld some parts of Mr Ks complaint. She didnt think it was reasonable to 
ask Admiral to do anything about the private work Mr K had done, and she thought Admiral 
had already responded fairly to the flue, boiler and fridge-freezer issues. However, our 
investigator didnt think Admiral had treated Mr K fairly in respect of the missing items and 
driveway. She recommended that it pay for missing or damaged items, assess and quote for 
the damaged driveway, and pay £150 compensation for the avoidable trouble and upset 
caused.
Mr K didnt fully agree. He said the flue and isolation switch werent accessible and further 
repairs were needed to make it safe. He provided an electrician report and a gas report to 
confirm his point. 
Admiral didnt agree either. It said it had already made an offer to Mr K about his driveway, 
so it still planned to assess and cash settle, if necessary. But Admiral didnt think it was fair 
to pay for unsubstantiated missing items. 
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ks complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Firstly, my provisional decision is about the outstanding matters raised by Mr K and 
addressed by Admiral in its letter of May 2021. My provisional decision is different to our 
investigators findings because Mr K provided further information following the review. So, 
Ive reached a provisional decision so that each party has another opportunity to comment. 
I wont repeat all the details of the complaint here. Instead Ill focus on the outstanding 
issues in dispute.
Missing and damaged items
Admiral doesnt think it should pay for replacements of these items because Mr K hasnt 
provided evidence that theyre missing. For context, the list Mr K provided includes items 
such as kitchen towels, display cabinet pegs, and a kitchen dish drainer at one end of the 
scale, and an electric blanket and rice cooker at the other. Most of the items are kitchen 
equipment and of relatively low value individually.
Ordinarily, Id expect a policyholder to evidence their loss. But here, I wouldnt expect Mr K 
to have retained receipts for kitchen towels or a dish drainer, or have any photos of them. 
So, I dont think it was reasonable for Admiral to ask him to demonstrate ownership or loss. 
Ive thought about Admirals comment that Mr K watched the boxes being packed and, later, 
unpacked yet he didnt raise his concerns about missing or damaged items at the time. 
Looking at the circumstances of the claim, Mr K had moved back into his home after several 
weeks living elsewhere. And Admirals notes state:
On seeing first hand the amount of property requiring storage [Admiral] have decided to 
rent insured storage space rather than use our own lock up units
So, I dont think its unreasonable that he only noticed missing or damaged items some time 
later. 
Admiral said it isnt required to complete an inventory of items, so it isnt responsible for any 
loss. But its account notes say the cleaning team, who would pack the belongings, 
are fastidious and will record everything which will give [Mr and Mrs K] confidence and 
comfort in the fact that their possessions are cared for.
The missing items may well have been boxed up together given that the majority were from 
the kitchen. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that a box or two went missing, 
which Mr K only noticed later. And in the absence of an inventory, I think its fair that Admiral 
pays for the listed missing/damaged items which Mr K has already made it aware of.
Damaged driveway
Mr K said the waste skip damaged his driveway. Admiral hasnt disputed this, and it offered 
to pay for the repairs if Mr K provided a quote. However, he said he was only able to get 
quotes for full replacement. I think Admirals offer was fair and I see no reason to ask it to 
pay for a full replacement driveway. In the circumstances, I think the best option now is for 
Admiral to assess the damage and, if repairs are necessary, cash settle.  
Boiler flue 
Mr K provided a copy of a Gas Safe report which gave an At Risk rating because the flue 
was inaccessible. The remedy was to fit a hatch. Im satisfied thats sufficient evidence to demonstrate that further work is needed. Ill ask Admiral to arrange a visit to inspect and 
complete the necessary work.
Extractor hood isolation switch 
Mr K said Admiral installed the extraction hood incorrectly. Admiral has already assessed the 
extraction hood and concluded that it is correctly installed. Mr K provided a copy of an 
electricians quote and brief report stating the isolation switch is normally accessible. The 
cost to complete the work is £280. While this report is not clearly stating an At Risk situation, 
I think its sufficient evidence to indicate that the work may not be of an appropriate standard. 
For that reason, Ill ask Admiral to arrange a visit to inspect and either make the isolation 
switch accessible, or explain why its not a requirement in these circumstances.
Fridge-freezer 
Mr K said he cant open his fridge-freezer door properly. He thinks Admiral should correct 
the installation. Looking at the claim notes, I can see that Mr K arranged to have an 
integrated fridge-freezer installed, whereas before he had free-standing appliances. As this 
is considered betterment and not covered by the policy, he arranged it privately with the 
contractors. The integrated fridge-freezer wasnt part of the claim covered by Admiral so I 
cant fairly hold it responsible for any design issues. I wont be asking Admiral to do anything 
more here.  
Consideration of vulnerable position
Mr K told Admiral of his and Mrs Ks vulnerabilities, but he doesnt think it gave any 
consideration to them. I havent seen anything in the evidence to suggest that Admiral failed 
to take account of Mr Ks circumstances. Indeed, Ive seen the following in some 
correspondence between Admiral and Mr Ks representative, Mr M, which contradicts that 
view:
based on observations [Admiral] made some decisions which need to be relayed to 
avoid confusion and frustration.
1. Due to Mr Ks health and the current climate surrounding Covid 19 I am extremely 
uncomfortable with his current close proximity to our operatives. Mrs K is also affected by 
this. Our operatives practice social distancing and safe Covid safe practices but this 
does not guarantee anything. [Admiral] have a genuine concern for [Mr and Mrs Ks] 
safety [and] strongly believe that the safest way forward is for Mr and Mrs K to move into 
the Alternative Accommodation [to] provide safe access for the removal of possessions
Ive also noted that the contractors refused to work, on occasion, when Mr K was at the 
property.
In light of this, I cant fairly say that Admiral failed to take into consideration Mr and Mrs Ks 
vulnerability so theres nothing to put right.
Compensation
Our investigator proposed compensation of £150 for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs K 
experienced. I can see that Mr K contributed to some delays simply because he wanted to 
be involved in the repair decisions, which is understandable. And there would always have 
been some inconvenience and distress caused by the water damage itself and the need to 
claim. But the evidence suggests Admiral didnt handle the matter of the missing items as 
well as it couldve done. I can understand Mr Ks frustration at being asked to evidence loss 
of many smaller items of kitchen equipment, and I dont think it was fair, in the 
circumstances, to put him in that position. So, having considered the overall avoidable 
inconvenience and distress caused, Im satisfied that the compensation payment of £150 is 
warranted. I said I was intending to uphold Mr Ks complaint and I was minded to require Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
pay for the missing/damaged items on the list Mr K has already provided;
inspect the driveway, and cash settle for any necessary repairs to damage 
attributable to the skip, as previously offered;
arrange a visit to inspect the boiler flue and complete the necessary work to make it 
accessible;
arrange a visit to inspect the isolation switch and either make it accessible, or explain 
why its not a requirement in these circumstances, and
pay compensation of £150 by way of apology for the distress and inconvenience 
caused in relation to the missing and damaged items.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Admiral didnt comment further.
Mr K provided a copy of an email from his electrician saying the isolation switch was likely a 
hazard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint for the same reasons I provided in my provisional 
decision. 
Having reconsidered the evidence in light of Mr Ks further submission, Im satisfied that the 
requirement for Admiral to inspect the isolation switch will address his concerns. Therefore, I 
see no reason to make any additional requirements of Admiral beyond those already 
proposed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ks 
complaint and Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must:
pay for the missing/damaged items on the list Mr K has already provided;
inspect the driveway, and cash settle for any necessary repairs for damage 
attributable to the skip, as previously offered;
arrange a visit to inspect the boiler flue and complete the necessary work to make it 
accessible;
arrange a visit to inspect the isolation switch and either make it accessible, or explain 
why its not a requirement in these circumstances, and
pay compensation of £150 by way of apology for the distress and inconvenience 
caused in relation to the missing and damaged items.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman