DRN-2731282
The complaint
Mr W complains that in 2018 Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank failed to recall 
a debt on his account that it had sold to a debt management company. He says as a result a 
CCJ was registered against his credit file for longer than it should have been and hed now 
like to be compensated for the banks failure to deal with this in 2018 and the impact this has 
had on him.
What happened
Mr W had an account with Yorkshire Bank that got into arrears. In October 2013 Yorkshire 
Bank wrote to Mr W to confirm that it had sold the account to a debt management company 
the previous month. In August 2014 the debt management company obtained a CCJ against 
Mr W.
In December 2014 Mr W complained to Yorkshire Bank about the charges that had been 
applied to his account and saying that he didnt feel the account had been suitable and 
shouldnt have been offered to him. Yorkshire Bank dismissed this complaint in 2015 but in 
2018 it undertook a review of a number of complaints, including Mr Ws, and changed its 
view. It wrote to Mr W to say it agreed that the account wasnt suitable so it now planned to 
refund the charges hed paid together with interest. This amounted to £693.74 which was 
paid to Mr W in 2018.
In 2020 however Mr W complained that when it upheld his complaint in 2018, Yorkshire 
Bank hadnt arranged to recall his account from the debt management company or cancel 
the CCJ against him. He said this had had a significant impact on his credit record and his 
ability to obtain credit elsewhere. He felt Yorkshire Bank hadnt taken this into account when 
it had made the payment in 2018 The money it had paid at that time was only a refund of the 
charges hed already paid plus interest but didnt take into account  the inconvenience or 
upset hed had or the impact it had had on his credit file.
Yorkshire Bank agreed that it should have recalled Mr Ws account from the debt 
management company in 2018 but hadnt done so due to an error in its internal 
communication. It also agreed that if the account hadnt been mis-sold originally then there 
wouldnt have been an outstanding balance to sell on. However, it said it had now 
discharged the debt and was arranging to cancel the CCJ. It sent Mr W a further £250 for his 
upset and inconvenience.
Mr W didnt feel this was enough for the time hed had the CCJ registered against him or the 
impact this had had so he complained to this service. Our investigator reviewed the 
complaint but felt that Yorkshire Bank had dealt with the complaint fairly. He said that when 
Yorkshire Bank sold on the debt it wasnt aware of a complaint from Mr W or what would 
happen between Mr W and the debt management company. So, he didnt feel that Yorkshire 
Bank was responsible for the fact a CCJ had been registered or for the impact this had had 
on Mr W. Instead hed looked at what Yorkshire Bank had done and the steps it had taken to 
put matters right. 
Hed reviewed Mr Ws credit file and could see that there were a number of other entries 
both before and after the CCJ that would have affected his credit score so he couldnt say 
that the CCJ was the only reason hed had problems in obtaining credit. But it was clear 
Yorkshire Bank should have cancelled the debt and the CCJ in 2018 when its upheld Mr Ws 
complaint and it hadnt done so. It had now put that in hand and had repaid the outstanding 
debt with the debt management company. Taking that into account he felt that the additional 
£250 compensation it had paid was reasonable.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He said in 
summary:
He hadnt realised until 2020 that there was a CCJ recorded against him and when 
he did, hed complained to Yorkshire Bank. It was at that point hed realised Yorkshire 
Bank hadnt sorted out his account with the debt management company in 2018 as it 
should have done.
Yorkshire Bank had admitted that if it hadnt mis-sold the account to him there wouldnt 
have been a debt to sell on, so he considered it was responsible for the fact thered 
been a CCJ against him for over 4 years.
The CCJ had had a negative impact on his credit file with the result hed had to take 
out loans at a higher rate than would otherwise have been the case.
The payment in 2018 was a refund of the charges hed paid not compensation and 
shouldnt be taken into account.
He didnt feel £250 was sufficient for the impact this had had on him for the past 5 
years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be asking Yorkshire Bank to do anything more as Ill now explain. As 
there are a number of issues, Ill deal with each in turn.
Sale of debt to debt management company
When Mr Ws account got into arrears, Yorkshire Bank sold it on to a debt management 
company. Ive seen that Yorkshire Bank now says it shouldnt have done this because, if it 
wasnt for the charges, there wouldnt have been a debt to sell. But it seems to me thats 
said with the benefit of hindsight. Thats because, at the time the account was sold on, 
Yorkshire Bank wasnt aware of Mr Ws complaint about the charges so it had no reason to 
think it shouldnt be sold on, in line with its policy at the time. And once the account was sold. 
Yorkshire Bank had no control over what happened to that debt and couldnt reasonably 
have known that it would result in a CCJ. For that reason, I dont consider the decision to sell 
on the account in 2013 was unreasonable.
2015 complaint
In 2015 Mr W complain to Yorkshire Bank about the account charges. Yorkshire Bank 
dismissed the complaint and in its letter, it gave Mr W the details of how he could bring his 
complaint to this service if he remained unhappy. Mr W didnt do so.
Ive seen Mr W says he wasnt aware of the CCJ at this time so he had no reason to 
complain further. Its not clear why Mr W hadnt received any communication from the debt management company before it registered the CCH in August 2014 but I cant reasonably 
say Yorkshire Bank was responsible for that. And because Mr W didnt bring his complaint to 
us within 6 months of the date of the final response from the bank, those issues are now out 
of time and I cant look into that further at this point. For that reason, I think its reasonable to 
look at Yorkshire Banks actions from 2018 when it reviewed Mr Ws complaint rather than 
from 2015.
Failure to recall the debt or amend Mr Ws credit file in 2018
In 2018 Yorkshire Bank undertook its own review of a number of complaints, including Mr 
Ws. Having done so it decided that the account had been mis-sold to Mr W and it agreed to 
refund him £694.74 made up of a refund of £492.21 for the charges hed paid plus interest of 
£201.53.
Yorkshire Bank paid the money direct to Mr W. But it didnt discharge the debt that was still 
outstanding with the debt management company or recall Mr Ws account. If it had its 
probable it would have realised that there was now a CCJ against Mr W and that this also 
needed to be discharged.  It didnt do so and for that reason the debt wasnt repaid and the 
CCJ remained in place on Mr Ws credit file for longer than it should have done. I can 
understand why Mr W feels so unhappy at whats happened and that it was avoidable.
What Im doing to put matters right
Mr Ws explained very clearly why he feels the steps already taken by Yorkshire Bank are 
insufficient. In particular he says the payments dont take it into account the time the CCJ 
was registered or the impact this has had on him and his ability to obtain credit elsewhere. 
He notes that the money paid in 2018 wasnt compensation but a refund of charges so 
should be ignored.
Ive taken this into account and Id agree that the CCJ should have been removed in 2018 
and that it was a mistake of Yorkshire Bank not to have done so. Having said that I have to 
look at the impact of whats happened and whether this was caused by this mistake or by 
other causes.
I can see Mr W feels the CCJ has had a significant impact on his credit file. Its reasonable to 
think it will have had an impact but looking at Mr Ws credit file, I can see that there are a 
number of other entries that would also have had an impact, including Mr Ws use of high 
cost loans. And that some of these pre-dated the CCJ in 2014. For that reason, I cant 
reasonably say that the CCJ in August 2014 was the only reason Mr Ws credit score wasnt 
as good as it could have been at this time. And because it wasnt aware of the CCJ at this 
time or when Mr W complained in 2015 I dont consider there was more it could have done 
at this time. 
Ive also looked at what Yorkshire Bank has paid to date. In 2018 it agreed to refund the 
account charges Mr W had paid and to pay interest on that. As Mr W says this was a refund 
not compensation and if that was all Yorkshire Bank had done, Id agree that it wasnt 
sufficient as it hadnt taken into account the impact on Mr W. But when Mr W complained in 
2020, Yorkshire Bank recalled the account and discharged the CCJ. And to do that it had to 
pay off the amount still outstanding on Mr Ws account. I dont have the precise figure it paid 
but Ive seen the amount outstanding in 2014 was £492.21. Mr W says he hasnt had any 
contact with the debt management company since then so its reasonable to think this was 
the minimum still outstanding.
That was money that Mr W was still liable to pay to the debt management company so its 
fair to say Mr W has had the benefit of this payment. And for that reason, I think its only fair to take this into account when looking at the compensation overall together with the previous 
refund in 2018. Having done so, I consider that the additional £250 compensation paid by 
Yorkshire Bank is reasonable.
I realise Mr W may feel disappointed by my decision but, for the reasons set out above, I 
consider that Yorkshire Bank has taken reasonable steps to resolve this complaint and to 
compensate Mr W for the inconvenience and upset hes had. In the circumstances I wont be 
asking it to pay anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman