DRN-4214952
The complaint
Mr D complains that after Invest Southwest Ltd (ISW) consolidated his two pensions into a 
single plan, the value fell significantly. He believes that despite raising his concerns early on 
with ISW, they failed to act promptly enough when the value of his savings started to fall. 
Mr D would now like ISW to recompense him in part, for some of the losses hes incurred as 
a result of their inaction.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr D met with an adviser from ISW to discuss his retirement planning 
needs. At the time he held two Group Personal Pension plans with Aviva and Standard Life. 
After assessing Mr Ds circumstances, the adviser recommended he consolidate both plans 
into a new personal pension with Aviva. In July 2021, the adviser issued a suitability report to 
Mr D setting out the reasons for his recommendation.
ISW determined that Mr D had a cautious to moderate attitude towards risk (ATR) and 
invested the transferred funds into a mix of six Aviva managed funds which ISW felt 
collectively, matched the level of risk Mr D was happy to take. The new Aviva plan received 
the monies from the two former plans in July and August 2021.
Shortly after the monies were transferred, Mr D contacted ISW in December 2021. He 
explained that after looking at his plan online, he was concerned the value had fallen. After a 
number of email exchanges over the next 9 weeks, Mr D had a telephone discussion with 
ISW on 24 February 2022. The purpose of the conversation was to discuss Mr Ds concerns 
about the performance of his funds. After reflecting on his telephone discussion with the 
adviser, Mr D emailed ISW the same day and asked them to move his monies into cash. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr D decided to formally complain to ISW. He said in summary, 
He didnt think ISWs advice met his needs or expectations. He also thought the advice to 
retain the existing six funds was poor as ISW hadnt listened to his concerns. He 
explained that hed asked ISW for alternate options to stop the rot but, they 
recommended he remain invested.
After reviewing Mr Ds complaint, ISW concluded they were satisfied theyd done nothing 
wrong. They also said in summary,
they felt the recommendation theyd made was in line with his attitude towards risk. They 
also felt Mr D had been provided with all the necessary information to make an informed 
decision. They went on say theyre not stockbrokers so cant advise when might be the 
best time reinvest. They said it was world events that impacted Mr Ds portfolio which 
was outside of their control and hed gone against their advice to cash in the 
investments.
Mr D was unhappy with ISWs response so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he didnt feel ISW had acted upon the multiple concerns hed raised with them. He 
said that had ISW acted sooner, his losses wouldve been less. He said that ISW failed to 
take his concerns seriously when the value of his pension started to fall.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that ISW 
hadnt treated Mr D fairly and felt his complaint should be upheld. She also said in summary, 
the original advice to switch the two pensions wasnt as clear as it shouldve been and the 
portfolio ISW had arranged for Mr D didnt meet his needs.
ISW however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, they said Mr Ds 
complaint was an emotional reaction to performance and they as professionals, applied logic 
to their interactions with him. They felt the investment term of 22 years drove the suitability of 
what theyd arranged for him and time in the market wouldve allowed him to ride out the 
falls. Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe ISW had 
presented any new arguments shed not already considered or responded to already.
ISW then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After carefully considering Mr Ds concerns, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I 
was planning on upholding his complaint but I was doing so for different reasons to the 
Investigator. In addition, I also explained I was amending the redress calculation that the 
Investigator had set out. For completeness, Ive set out the findings I made in full below.
My provisional decision:
Before considering whether ISW mis-managed Mr Ds concerns about the performance of 
his monies, Ive looked at their initial advice to switch his two pension plans to the new Aviva 
personal pension. Whilst I appreciate the focus of Mr Ds complaint as well as ISWs 
response has been anchored around the response of ISWs adviser to Mr Ds emails, I 
believe its important to go back a stage and consider the original pension switch advice. The 
inquisitorial remit of our service allows me to do this. In addition, I also believe its 
appropriate to do so because in their complaint response to Mr D, ISW noted theyd deemed 
the original transfer advice as being suitable for Mr Ds stated objectives. However, after 
carefully considering that advice, Ive reached a different conclusion to them. I dont think 
they treated Mr D fairly, failing in their obligations under COBs 9. Ill explain why below.
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and 
the wider surrounding circumstances. 
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements:
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of ISW's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deals with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. In addition, the regulators checklist (published in 
2009) for pension switching, which highlighted four key issues it thought should be focussed 
on: 
 Charges (has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their 
existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?); 
 Existing benefits (has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason?); 
 Risk (has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded ATR 
and personal circumstances?); 
 Ongoing fund management (has the consumer switched into a pension with a need for 
ongoing investment reviews, but this was not explained, offered or put in place?) 
The regulators pensions related industry alert to firms in 2013 which included the following: 
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages or 
disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension. 
 The regulators further alert in April 2014 which included the following; Where a financial 
adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or switch from a current 
pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the 
underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying 
investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Was the original advice to transfer Mr Ds two pensions suitable? 
The regulators guidance above was all issued prior to ISW providing advice in 2020/21.
When thinking carefully about the guidance the regulator provided, it meant that ISW needed 
to obtain relevant information about Mr Ds overall profile and, given that it considered a 
pension switch for him, it was also obliged to address the 2009 checklist related to his 
profile, circumstances and objectives at the time. The switch had to be in his best interests. It 
had to be worth the movement away from the two pensions and it should have had 
meaningful prospects of being better for him than the existing two plans, otherwise there 
would arguably have been no point in switching and no justification in incurring the costs 
associated with the switching process. It follows from this that a comparison should also 
have been made between Mr Ds two plans and the proposed new Aviva plan in order to 
illustrate whether or not the latter was in his best interest. 
ISW provided Mr D with a suitability report that set out the main themes of their discussions 
along with their recommendation. His main objectives were noted in the suitability report as, 
in summary: 
Consolidate his pensions to make administering his monies simpler.Allow him to draw an income flexibly in the future should he wish.
Wanting to ensure his monies had a greater potential for growth.
Invest as ethically as possible.
Having thought about this carefully, Im not convinced the objectives above when considered 
against the wider evidence within the file, are strong enough catalysts to support the 
recommendation to switch away from the two PPs and into the new plan. Ill explain why.
Mr D wanted to consolidate his pensions to make administering his monies simpler so on the 
face of it, amalgamating the plans together into a new pension met Mr Ds first objective. 
However, its not quite as simple as that. From what Ive seen of Mr Ds original two 
pensions, the existing Aviva policy terms and conditions suggest that plan wouldve been 
capable of accepting a transfer in of the other Standard Life plan. The only alternative to the 
new Aviva plan that ISW appear to have considered is that of a stakeholder which they 
discounted due to the limited funds on offer. However, the file is silent on whether they 
looked at utilising the existing Aviva plan to house the Standard Life monies and then 
undertake a fund switch. 
Thats important because of the costs ISW levied for their advice. Charges play a very 
important part when considering whether its in the consumers best interest to switch their 
pension or not. Whilst they cant be viewed in isolation, higher costs would generally point 
towards being a good reason not to move. So, that means thered need to be other, more 
compelling reasons to justify a switch. The existing Standard Life plan had an annual charge 
of 0.39% p.a. and the Aviva plan 0.21% p.a. Following the recommendation, the new Aviva 
plan had annual charge of 0.61% p.a. with an ongoing advice fee of 1% p.a. However, I think 
ISWs suitability report from 7 July 2021 confused the situation because it only covered the 
investment/fund fee, stating his ongoing charge would be 0.61% rather than 1.61% (which 
included the ongoing adviser fee). But, ISW did subsequently provide Mr D with a client 
agreement which set out the new costs that he signed on 14 July 2021 to confirm his 
understanding. However, just because the consumer was advised what the new costs were, 
doesnt then make the advice suitable.
And thats because, in addition to the ongoing costs, ISW charged Mr D an initial advice fee 
of 2% to move both plans, or £6,394. The larger Standard Life plan made up the bigger 
portion of that charge (£5,890). So, rather than just considering a fund switch, ISW charged 
Mr D 2% (£504) to replace one Aviva plan with an almost identical policy. Ive seen no 
evidence that ISW explored switching Mr Ds Standard Life plan into the existing Aviva plan 
to save on the initial advice fee.
In respect of his second priority, being able to draw an income flexibly, whilst the Standard 
Life plan didnt provide a flexi-access drawdown option, the existing Aviva policy did. So, 
moving from one Aviva scheme to the new Aviva plan didnt improve Mr Ds position, it 
simply put him in the same position he was already in. By retaining the existing Aviva plan, 
Mr D wouldve met that objective and saved £504 that would have remained invested within 
his pension.
Another driving factor in switching from the existing two plans to the new PP was Mr Ds 
desire to invest ethically. In their suitability report to Mr D, ISW stated given your current 
objectives I recommend that you invest in a range of funds and asset classes. Your current 
provider does not provide access to a sufficient range of funds to allow us to create an 
appropriate ethical portfolio. Ive looked at the ceding scheme information on both policies. 
The existing Aviva plan provided the option to undertake a fund switch with the ability to 
invest in over 1000 funds. Ive looked closely at the available fund options on Mr Ds existing Aviva plan and compared 
them to what ISW selected for him. It appears that a broad spectrum of similar funds to the 
ones ISW set up in the new Aviva plan were available on his previous plan, including ethical 
and fixed interest options. It therefore seems to me, ISW switched the existing Aviva plan for 
something that was already readily available to Mr D.
As part of their pension advice, ISW reviewed the level of risk Mr D was prepared to take 
with his retirement savings. Using electronic risk software, they established Mr D was a 
cautious to moderate investor. Their definition explained hed be comfortable taking a 
limited amount of investment risk to increase the chances of achieving a positive return, but 
he only wanted to risk a small part of his capital to achieve this. The suitability report went on 
to say that for a typical cautious to moderate portfolio, it would have up to half invested in 
fixed interest products which are low risk but have low return. However, from what Ive seen 
of Mr Ds subsequent communications to ISW about the volatility of his monies, there 
appears to be a mismatch between the underlying investments they selected for his pension 
and, the level of risk he was prepared to take. I also think ISWs choice of words in their 
suitability report is problematic because they didnt just invest a small part of his capital in 
investments that exposed him to risk. 
ISW recommended six funds in Mr Ds portfolio, three were gilt and corporate bond based 
and the other three were predominantly equity based. The latter three (Managed Growth, 
Global Growth and Ethical), accounted for around 61% of Mr Ds monies in equities. ISW 
said that when the customers other assets are taken account of, that total figure works out 
at far less of his total wealth being exposed to risk. But, what were focusing on here is the 
amount of risk Mr D wanted to take with these funds. So, I dont think exposing a consumer 
who had a risk appetite at the lower end of the spectrum to as much risk as ISW did, was 
appropriate.
In his complaint, Mr D stated his original objective in moving his monies was to at least 
maintain their value, meet costs and allow for some fluctuations along the way whilst 
hopefully making some modest gains. Ive looked at the funds Mr Ds existing Standard Life 
and Aviva plans were invested in. As he was age 64 at the time of the advice, his monies 
appear to have defaulted into the respective pensions lower risk solutions which by enlarge 
were cash, fixed interest and corporate bonds. As such, Mr D wouldve been used to seeing 
lower volatility on his existing monies when compared to the new higher equity content funds 
that ISW recommended so I well suspect thats what caused alarm to him when he saw his 
monies fall so quickly. The file seems to suggest Mr D may return to work. But, given his age 
and recent health concerns along with the fact he was looking to access his funds flexibly 
along with the fact he was phasing down in retirement, Im not convinced he was looking to 
take any greater risk than he was already doing.
So in summary, for the reasons Ive noted above, I dont think ISWs advice to switch Mr Ds 
two plans to a new policy was in his best interests. Ordinarily, such a conclusion would mean 
that I wouldnt need to comment on the subsequent missteps Mr D states ISW took by failing 
to act on his concerns. However, for completeness I will and thats because I think the 
actions ISW took exacerbated the problems Mr D faced.
Should ISW have acted differently than they did when they received Mr Ds emails?
In their correspondence with this service, ISW explained they spoke to Mr D on each 
occasion he raised a concern about the value of his money falling. I asked them for copies of 
any telephone recordings they held with Mr D about his investment. ISW conceded theyd 
not spoken to Mr D from when they received his first email on 22 December 2021 until 24 
February 2022, the day he asked them to cash his policy in and that discussion hadnt been recorded. They also explained that when Mr D raised his concerns about the plans 
performance, theyd responded only via email. 
Ive looked very carefully at the correspondence that ISW exchanged with Mr D where he set 
out his concerns about the performance of his pension funds. When Mr D saw his monies 
going down, he emailed ISW on six different days between December and February. 
A summary of the exchange between Mr D and ISW is as follows:
22 December 2021 Mr D asked if he should be concerned after seeing his portfolio 
decrease by 2%. He noted the FTSE had gone up in value but his 
portfolio had decreased.
23 December 2021 ISW responded saying performance is never linear and goes down 
and up in value over time. They say the fund managers must be 
given time to perform.
Mr D then asks what level of loss ISW would consider making 
changes at.
ISW explain valuations can appear volatile over the short term but 
over the long term theyd be hoping for greater growth than available 
from deposits. They said if Mr Ds circumstances changed, then 
theyd consider making alterations.
7 January 2022 Mr D responds saying had his money been invested in the FTSE, 
his funds wouldve been up by around £14,000. He explains hes 
concerned by the widening gap and, should the losses continue, 
hell have to ask himself what options he has if the loss reaches 
£20,000.
20 January 2022 Mr D emails ISW again explaining his concerns that his portfolio had 
fallen further.
27 January 2022 ISW email Mr D updating him on the pension. They explain their 
position is, if Mr Ds objectives, attitude towards risk, capacity for 
loss and circumstances are unaltered, their advice is to continue as 
originally recommended.
21 February 2022 Mr D writes in saying hes got to the point where he feels its time to 
make a change as hes had enough. Having followed ISWs advice 
and sat tight, he explained all that has happened is his portfolio has 
gone down in value. He said at this point it was now causing him a 
great deal of stress. He asks ISW to consider what his options are.
ISW respond explaining theyd typically only consider altering course 
if Mr Ds circumstances have changed. They then provide a detailed 
response to Mr Ds points.
Mr D asks for time to consider ISWs email.
23 February 2022 Mr D responds explaining he doesnt believe his attitude towards 
risk has changed. He also restated his objective which was to make 
his pensions flourish. He asks ISW to transfer his funds to cash.24 February 2022 ISW and Mr D speak on the telephone. This is followed up by an 
email to Mr D confirming ISW have submitted the request to Aviva to 
switch his portfolio to cash.
I dont think theres any doubt Mr D understood he was investing in the stock market when 
he moved his two pensions to the new Aviva plan. In his complaint to this service, he stated 
I dont think it reasonable for me to expect to be wholly put back in the position before I 
started with them, as I understand that some fluctuations should be expected, and the value 
of investments can go down as well as up. So, he understood his money would vary in 
value but, based on the email chains between himself and ISW, clearly not to the extent that 
it did.
Im not convinced that Mr D actually understood what he was invested in. I say that because 
despite the make-up of his portfolio, he kept comparing his investment to the FTSE which is 
made up entirely of equities. In his complaint to this service, he also explained he wanted an 
investment that at least maintained its value. Something the portfolio that ISW had arranged 
couldnt achieve.
After being invested for only four months, Mr D contacted ISW expressing concern his 
investment had fallen by 2% and benchmarked it to the FTSE (which his monies werent in). 
This was followed up only two weeks later by another email from Mr D expressing further 
concern. I think its at that point ISW shouldve realised that something was clearly up and 
either telephoned Mr D or met up with him to explore those worries further. I say that 
because I think at that point, it shouldve been very apparent to ISW that he wasnt 
comfortable with the risk level theyd agreed with him and a larger intervention beyond an 
email was needed.
Its not uncommon for consumers to become concerned and contact their advisers when 
they see their funds falling. And, its quite normal for advisers to provide reassurance that in 
times of market volatility, consumers should stay invested if their circumstances havent 
changed. However, ISW placed that onus on Mr D to tell them whether his circumstances 
had altered. Mr D I think was under the impression his investment objectives hadnt changed 
but the problem was, his understanding of the level of risk he was prepared to take with his 
money was evidently different to ISWs understanding of the level of risk he was prepared to 
take and as such, both were at crossed wires. Had ISW proactively satisfied themselves 
sooner whether what theyd arranged was still actually appropriate for Mr D, they couldve 
intervened and stopped the loss earlier. 
Finally, as part of his complaint, Mr D has also explained hes unhappy that ISW have ended 
their ongoing relationship with him. Deciding on which clients theyll provide a service to is a 
commercial decision for ISW and not one for this service to comment on. However, I have 
taken a look at the service agreement provided to Mr D when he became a client at ISW. 
The terms of that agreement which Mr D signed in July 2021 do provide ISW the option to 
end their relationship at any time and thats set out in section seven. So, I wont be asking 
ISW to take any other action in respect of that point.
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision, Mr D explained that he had nothing further to add.
ISW, however, said that they didnt agree with the provisional decision. They submitted a 
detailed explanation setting out why they believed the pension switch theyd arranged was in 
Mr Ds best interests and resulted in a good outcome for him. In summary, ISW said:Mr D would have seen the ups and downs of investment performance within his ISA and 
therefore it would be disingenuous to say that he didnt understand what he was taking 
on. They also said that they clearly explained the costs and charges to Mr D so he knew 
what he would be paying. 
They also felt that Mr D had accepted the pension was a long-term investment yet was 
not willing to wait and follow their advice. ISW feel Mr D complained due to an emotional 
response to short-term underperformance when it was clear and he agreed that this was 
a long-term investment. 
They also say they would never consider arranging investments for anyone who couldnt 
leave their monies untouched for at least five years. ISW said that Mr D has significant 
savings and therefore his portfolio had time to recover and grow if he had continued to 
follow their advice. 
ISW also stated, there was no doubt Mr D was a cautious to moderate investor. Thats 
because, they say, his risk profile was established through the use of psychometric risk 
questioning. It was ISWs view that Mr D was placed into a suitably diversified portfolio 
for his attitude to risk. They went on to say that in a good economic climate, he would 
have been more than happy and also, if he had left the portfolio long enough to go 
through the relevant economic cycle then he would have been pleased with its 
performance.
ISW said that Mr D wanted the impossible. In effect, he wanted an invested 
environment where his portfolio would not go down in a very poor economic climate 
using ethical funds.
ISW said that Mr D needed to invest within his risk profile and see out the economic 
cycle. Investing in cash or gilts in their opinion wasnt the most suitable advice for him 
because of the impact inflation would have on his monies.
ISW also explained that they didnt think the smaller Aviva pension was suitable to retain. 
Thats because, they argued, it didnt allow adviser charging/ servicing in any way. ISW 
felt that they therefore couldnt offer a suitable service using that existing Aviva plan to 
meet Mr Ds requirements of an adviser guiding him through retirement. 
ISW didnt feel it was necessary to have called Mr D when he sought clarification or 
comfort about his investments. They say the FCA dont place any undertaking on firms to 
telephone customers in such circumstances. ISW also said Mr D could have called 
themselves should he have chosen to.
ISW went on to explain that they offered Mr D the opportunity to move some or all of his 
monies into cash should he have wished in one of their emails to him. However, they 
went on to say that in their opinion, cash and bond-based investments wouldnt be 
suitable for a long-term pension client due to the eroding effects of inflation.
Finally, ISW said that if the case were to be upheld, they didnt think how the redress 
was set out in the provisional decision was fair. They felt the larger Standard Life plan 
would have been moved regardless and therefore, it would be unreasonable for them to 
have to pay redress on that part of Mr Ds investment. ISW asked for clarification on the 
benchmark that should be applied in any redress calculation if the complaint was upheld.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered ISWs further submissions, Im not persuaded to alter the outcome of 
my provisional decision. Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to 
note that I very much recognise ISWs strength of feeling about this matter. They have 
provided very detailed submissions which Ive taken great time to read and consider very 
carefully. However, I hope ISW wont take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider 
to be the central issues, and not in as much detail as they have outlined, as a discourtesy. 
As Ive already explained, the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point 
raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr D and ISW and to reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but it is for me to decide, based on the available information I've been 
given, what's more likely than not to have happened.
ISW have explained that Mr D must have known his pension investments could go down in 
value because he held an investment ISA elsewhere. However, I dont think thats in any 
doubt - Mr D has already conceded he knew his pension monies could vary in value. Whats 
at the heart of this issue is the extent to which those pension monies would alter in value. 
I dont doubt ISWs contention that they wouldnt ordinarily look to arrange equity-based 
investments for any consumer who wasnt prepared to invest for at least five years. And, 
whilst I dont doubt Mr D may have been content to invest for the medium term, the 
underlying investments and level of risk he thought he was taking were clearly misaligned 
with ISWs understanding of his wishes. Its for that reason I believe Mr D reacted in the way 
he did when he saw his investments falling in value.
In their response to the provisional decision, ISW say there was no uncertainty that Mr D 
was a cautious to moderate investor. Thats because, as they explained, his risk profile was 
established through the use of psychometric risk questioning. As Ive already highlighted 
though, ISWs definition of a cautious to moderate investor is someone who is comfortable 
taking a limited investment risk to increase the chances of achieving a positive return but 
you only want to risk a small part of your capital to achieve this. The suitability report ISW 
sent to Mr D explained that for a typical cautious to moderate portfolio, it would have up to 
half invested in fixed interest products which are low risk but have low return. The suitability 
report does go on to say the larger part of the portfolio will be invested in equities and 
property which can boost longer term returns which are associated with more risk. So, whilst 
ISW have stated that Mr D is prepared to take a limited amount of risk to a small part of his 
funds, theyve then contradicted themselves by stating that the larger part of his monies will 
be exposed to more risk.
Having carefully considered ISWs further submission, I fail to be convinced about the 
appropriateness of the investments arranged by themselves for Mr D and thats because 
they didnt just invest a small part of his capital in equities. ISW have said that when theyve 
referred to a small part of Mr Ds capital, rather than focusing on just the pensions monies 
which theyre providing advice on, theyre actually talking about Mr Ds wider wealth (which 
totals around £684,000). But, as Ive already explained, I think that approach is problematic 
because the suitability report is dealing purely with advice on Mr Ds two pension plans and, 
by ISWs own admission, they dont know what underlying investments are held in his ISA. 
Thats important because if they were taking full account of all of his monies, if the ISA funds were invested in high-risk investments, they would need to adjust how the pension monies 
were invested to take account of that. But, thats only part of the problem. 
Each of the funds that ISW selected for Mr D had a risk rating attached to them ranging from 
one (lowest volatility) to seven (highest volatility). The ratings reflect the potential for a fund 
to go up and down in value over time. A fund with a risk rating of seven, has a much higher 
risk of losing money than a fund rated as one but conversely, the potential for the money to 
grow over the long term is potentially higher than a fund with a lower rating. 
As Ive already explained, ISW say that for cautious to moderate investors, theyre able to 
invest around 60% of the consumers monies in equities. When Ive looked at the risk profile 
of the funds ISW selected for that part of his investment, 20.75% of his pension was invested 
in a fund that had a risk rating of 7 out of 7, another 20.75% of his monies were invested in a 
fund that had a risk rating of 6 out of 7 and the third had a risk rating of 5 out of 7 that 
represented 19.5% of his funds. So, the equity content within those three funds was skewed 
towards investments that were higher risk/ more volatile which is at odds with a consumer 
who only wants to take a limited amount of risk with a small part of their capital. Whilst I 
should acknowledge that ISW invested a further 23.75% of Mr Ds portfolio in two funds both 
with risk ratings of 3 out of 7, the remaining 15.75% of his monies were invested in an index 
linked fund with a risk rating of 5 out of 7. 
So, in summary, more than three quarters of Mr Ds monies were invested in funds with a 
risk rating of five and above. And I think given the higher volatile nature of those funds, thats 
what led to Mr Ds surprise when he saw his monies varying in value to the extent they did. I 
dont think exposing a consumer who had a risk appetite at the lower end of the spectrum to 
the nature of those investments with as much volatility and risk as ISW did was appropriate.
As Ive already explained in my provisional decision, Mr Ds main objectives were noted in 
the suitability report as, in summary: consolidate his pensions to make administering his 
monies simpler, allow him to draw an income flexibly in the future should he wish, wanting to 
ensure his monies had a greater potential for growth and wanting to invest as ethically as 
possible. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that his objectives, when considered against the 
wider evidence within the file, are strong enough catalysts to support the recommendation to 
switch away from the two PPs and into the new plan. 
Whilst I appreciate the comments that ISW have made about Avivas inability to add them on 
as a servicing adviser to the existing Aviva plan, thats not a reason in isolation to discount 
using the existing plan. Importantly, theres no evidence that the option of retaining that plan 
was explored with the consumer to seek their views on that as a viable course of action to try 
and keep costs down. ISW say they clearly explained the costs and charges to Mr D, so he 
knew what he was taking on. But, as theyve quite rightly noted, Mr Ds complaint wasnt 
about costs and as Ive already explained, just because a business has pointed out the costs 
of a new arrangement, it doesnt necessarily make it suitable by default, especially when 
there may be other more effective solutions available which must first be considered (and if 
necessary, discounted) with the consumer.
In their response to the provisional decision, ISW explained that in one of their emails to Mr 
D, they offered him the opportunity to move some or all of his monies into cash should he 
have wished. However, ISW placed that onus on Mr D to tell them whether his 
circumstances had altered. And, as I said earlier, in my opinion Mr D was under the 
impression that his investment objectives hadnt changed but the problem was that his 
understanding of the level of risk he was prepared to take with his money was evidently 
different to ISWs understanding of the level of risk he was prepared to take and as such, 
both were at crossed wires. I think that, if an adviser has got to the point where theyre offering a consumer the option to switch funds to cash after such a short window of being 
invested, a greater intervention than just an email is likely necessary. 
ISW said that they didnt feel it was necessary to have called Mr D when he sought 
clarification or comfort about his investments. Whilst ISW are correct in that the FCA doesnt 
place any undertaking on firms to telephone customers in such circumstances, just because 
the regulators rules dont cover a specific scenario, given the frequency and tone of Mr Ds 
emails to them, I would consider it good industry practice to have telephoned the consumer 
to directly discuss his concerns with him given that the transaction had only recently 
completed and a new relationship was being established with the firm. I think had they done, 
it wouldve given the adviser an opportunity to further explore Mr Ds concerns and satisfy 
themselves whether what they had recently arranged was suitable or not.
Finally, ISW said they didnt think how the redress was set out in the provisional decision 
was fair. They felt that the larger Standard Life plan would have been moved regardless and 
therefore, it would be unreasonable for them to have to pay redress on that part of Mr Ds 
investment. I dont agree though. Thats because, as Ive already explained, I dont think the 
transfer was in his best interests for the reasons Ive set out above. I dont think the 
underlying investments that ISW arranged for Mr D met his needs and as such, my aim is 
that Mr D should be put back as closely as possible to the position he would probably now 
be in had he been given suitable advice.
ISW asked for clarification on the benchmark that should be applied in any redress 
calculation. They didnt think it was reasonable to use bonds as a comparator. However, the 
starting point is to determine whether Mr Ds previous pension providers are able to calculate 
a notional value, had he remained where he was. If they cant, ISW will need to determine a 
fair value for Mr D's investment instead, using the benchmark of average rate from fixed rate 
bonds. It doesnt mean that Mr D would have invested only in a fixed rate bond - its the sort 
of investment return a consumer could have obtained with little risk to their capital. 
Further information about redress can be found on our website:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-complaint/understanding-
compensation
Summary
I have therefore reached the same decision for the reasons Ive already set out above and 
as such, require ISW to take the following actions to put things right for Mr D:
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr D would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. I am 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mr D's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must ISW do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, ISW must:Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with the notional value if it had remained 
with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no 
compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss 
and compensation is payable.
ISW should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, ISW should pay into Mr D's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If ISW is unable to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation 
is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr D wont be able to reclaim any of 
the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr D would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr D £250 for having to contact ISW on multiple occasions to address his concerns.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ISW deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. ISW should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr D asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
New Aviva 
PensionStill exists 
and liquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.Notional Value
This is the value of Mr D's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. ISW should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the New Aviva Pension should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the New Aviva Pension should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if ISW totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, ISW will need to determine a 
fair value for Mr D's investment instead, using this benchmark: Average rate from fixed rate 
bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the 
benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, ISW should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below if appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr D's 
circumstances and objectives. It doesnt mean that Mr D would have invested only in 
a fixed rate bond. Its the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained 
with little risk to their capital. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Invest Southwest Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman