DRN-4341832
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt take adequate steps to block his gambling 
transactions. 
What happened
Mr T says hes a compulsive gambler and has lost around £500 000 over the last few years. 
Mr T set up an account with Barclays and within a short period of time made a number of 
large transactions to betting companies, totalling around £22 000. He says Barclays should 
have identified that the transactions he was making were for large amounts of money and 
that they could have done more to protect him. 
Mr T complained to Barclays, but they said theyd taken reasonable steps to look into the 
transactions. Mr T complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt 
think that Barclays had acted unfairly in all the circumstances based on the information that 
was available to them. Mr T didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
So, I need to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the circumstances surrounding Mr Ts complaint. I have a lot of 
empathy with the circumstances hes described, including what hes said about the amount 
of money hes lost because of gambling over recent years. 
However, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T hadnt held his bank account with Barclays for very long. So, they didnt 
have a lot of information about his usual spending habits or how his account was 
typically managed.
Barclays did block several transactions Mr T tried to make. And they spoke to 
Mr T about the transactions on several occasions. Mr T confirmed the 
transactions were legitimate and that he wanted to go ahead with them. 
Mr T didnt tell Barclays that he had a gambling addiction or compulsion. And I 
dont think there were any obvious indications that Mr T was in any difficulty. For 
example, he was able to discuss the nature and purpose of the transactions with 
Barclays. 
I think Barclays took reasonable steps to look into the transactions. Mr T gave 
them reassurance and so I dont think there were any clear indications that he 
needed any additional help or support from, for example, a specialist team or 
external organisations. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman