DRN-2834431
The complaint
Ms A and Ms R complain mistakes by Santander UK Plc in assessing their re-mortgage led 
to delay. This meant they ended up with a mortgage offer at a higher fixed interest rate than 
they would otherwise have been eligible for. And they are unhappy with the service they 
received from Santander during the application process.
What happened
At the start of September 2020, Ms A and Ms R applied to move their mortgage from an 
existing lender to Santander UK Plc. The fixed interest rate product on the existing mortgage 
was due to end in December 2020. Ms A and Ms R approached Santander as they were 
offering lower fixed interest rate products than the existing lender. Ms A and Ms R applied for 
a mortgage with Santander hoping to get a two-year fixed interest rate product at 1.29% 
starting in January 2021.
Santander issued a mortgage offer to Ms A and Ms R towards the end of November 2020 
and it completed in early January 2021. Ms A and Ms R were unhappy with the service 
Santander provided, the length of time the application took and the fact they ended up with a 
higher rate than theyd applied for.
Ms A and Ms R said Santander gave them different information at different times about the 
amount Santander would lend and Santander asked them for the same information on 
several occasions. Ms A was particularly unhappy with what had happened during an 
interview with a Santander mortgage adviser in October 2020  she said the adviser was 
unprofessional and had made her feel uncomfortable due to his approach and questioning.
Ms A and Ms R felt mistakes Santander made delayed their application and meant they lost 
out on the fixed interest rate product of 1.29% theyd applied for at the start of the process, 
ending up with a higher rate of 1.54%.
Santander upheld their complaint in part. They agreed theyd made a mistake in recording 
some applicant details that affected the terms of the mortgage they could offer. Santander 
also agreed their mortgage adviser should have been more professional when he spoke to 
Ms A about the application. They said theyd given the adviser feedback about that. 
Santander offered Ms A and Ms R £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
theyd suffered as a result of these issues. They also agreed to look at the application again. 
Santander didnt agree to compensate Ms A and Ms R for losing out on the lower interest 
rate. They said that until an application had gone through, they wouldnt have known what 
interest rates were available to Ms A and Ms R. 
Ms A and Ms R brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator thought Santander 
had done enough to put things right and didnt uphold their complaint.
Our investigator acknowledged the process had been frustrating for Ms A and Ms R but felt 
the compensation Santander had offered was fair.  
He didnt think the overall length of time the mortgage application took was unreasonable. 
Given Ms A and Ms R were new customers it was reasonable for Santander to carry out 
detailed checks about their financial situation. He noted the mortgage offer was made before 
the existing mortgage expired. 
Since Ms A and Ms R didnt accept our investigators view, Ive considered everything afresh 
to come to a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Ms A and Ms R found the application process they went through with 
Santander frustrating. Ms A and Ms R applied in good time before the existing product came 
to an end. And Ms As said in her professional experience, re-mortgages typically take 
around six weeks. I can understand she and Ms R will have been concerned about getting a 
new fixed interest rate product in place before the existing mortgage reverted to the lenders 
much higher standard variable rate. 
Santanders records show they were taking a detailed look into the financial information     
Ms A and Ms R were providing to assess the affordability of the mortgage they wanted to 
take out. This is in line with what Id expect Santander to have done to comply with relevant 
Financial Conduct Authority rules. 
Ms As said Santander asked for the same information more than once and I can see she 
had problems uploading documents to Santanders system. Santanders records suggest 
they were missing information about income and outgoings that they needed to complete 
their affordability assessment. And they offered to accept information in a different format 
given the technical difficulties Ms A was having at that time. 
Santander gave Ms A and Ms R an indication of the amount theyd be prepared to lend them 
by 2 October, although it was less than theyd asked for. I dont think Santander were 
responsible for any delays leading up to this point or that the time taken was unreasonable.
Ms A and Ms R decided to go ahead with the application and Ms A attended an interview 
with the mortgage adviser she later complained about in mid-October. Following the 
interview, Ms A asked Santander about borrowing a higher amount. In fact, Santander 
declined the application  they were only prepared to offer a significantly lower sum. On 
appeal they agreed theyd lend an amount over the term Ms A and Ms R wanted if Ms A 
cleared some unsecured borrowing balances first. It was only once shed done that, in mid-
November, that Santander made the mortgage offer. 
Santander have apologised for the mistake their adviser made but I dont think that mistake 
significantly affected the time the application took. It was the balances on Ms As unsecured 
lending that stopped Santander from making an offer until those balances were cleared. 
Overall, I dont think any delays on the part of Santander materially affected the time it took 
for them to issue a mortgage offer to Ms A and Ms R. 
Turning to the interest rate, for valid reasons, not all interest rates will be available to all of a 
lenders customers. And, generally, the interest rates lenders offer will depend on several 
things, including the amount borrowed and the ratio of the loan to the value of the property 
over which the lender will secure the loan. Santander didnt decide what they would lend to    Ms A and Ms R until late November 2020 when they were happy with Ms A and Ms Rs 
financial positions and they had a valuation for the property. I wouldnt expect them to have 
decided what interest rate they could offer Ms A and Ms R until they had that information. 
Theres no evidence Santander agreed to lend to Ms A and Ms R at the interest rate they 
were hoping to secure when they first started their application. And I dont think Santander 
caused any significant delays that would mean it was fair for Santander to reduce the 
interest rate of Ms A and Ms Rs mortgage to the lower rate they wanted. So, I wont direct 
Santander to change the interest rate Ms A and Ms R are paying or to compensate them for 
having to pay interest at the higher rate. 
Ive thought about the compensation Santander offered Ms A and Ms R. Santander accepted 
their mortgage adviser behaved unprofessionally, and that he made a mistake. I can 
understand the conversation will have been upsetting for Ms A. But, as Ive said, I dont think 
the mistake the adviser made significantly affected the progress of the application. On 
balance, I think Santanders offer to pay £200 compensation, and to review the mortgage 
application, was a fair way of resolving Ms A and Ms Rs complaint.
Bearing everything in mind, I dont uphold Ms A and Ms Rs complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms A and Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman