DRN-4427977
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Zopa Bank Limited, who Ill call Zopa.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
I know it will disappoint Zopa, but I agree with our investigator that Mr O should have been
allowed to reject this car. I think there are some costs Mr O incurred as a consequence of
being provided with a car of unsatisfactory quality. Our investigator didnt suggest they were
all refunded, and I think some of them should be, so Im issuing a provisional decision to
explain that, and to give the parties an opportunity to provide any additional comments they
may have.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Zopa, who are also the supplier
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law gives the consumer 30 days to reject a car if its
of unsatisfactory quality. Within that period the business do not have a right to repair the car
unless the consumer consents.
Mr O took receipt of the car on 1 April 2023. Text messages exchanged on that day show
that he was concerned the car was shaking during braking and that he thought that might be
due to a warped brake disc. He told the dealer he wanted to reject the car, he said:
can I return this car tomorrow for a refund. The car shakes dramatically when you brake,
chip on windscreen and head unit doesnt work properly.
I have found no evidence that a repair was ever agreed to by Mr O.
The car was MOTd before Mr O took receipt of it and as the brakes are checked during an
MOT it would, under normal circumstances, seem likely they were provided in a road worthy
condition. But I dont think its likely they were in this case as Mr O complained about the car
shaking under braking only hours after he picked the car up; and a subsequent diagnostic
confirmed his fears, that the brake disc was warped, and a CV joint was excessively worn.
I dont think that suggested this car was of satisfactory quality and I think Zopa should
therefore, have allowed him to reject the car. They should do so now.
Zopa will need to collect the car at no cost to Mr O and they should end the finance
agreement.
Its only fair that Mr O pays for the use hes had from the car but as that use has been
impaired by the issues hes experienced I think Zopa should refund 5% of the instalments
hes paid. They should add interest to that refund as Mr O has been deprived of the money.
Mr O has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to escalate his complaint to this
Service when I think it could have been resolved earlier, and hes had to arrange a
diagnostic to prove the issues he was experiencing. Ive also read about his difficulties
getting to an important funeral without reliable transport. In those circumstances, I think Zopa
should pay him £200 compensation.
Mr O has detailed some costs he says he incurred as a consequence of being supplied with
a car of unsatisfactory quality. Zopa should refund any unused portion of road tax or car
insurance if Mr O can supply them with receipts. Theyll also need to refund the £60 Mr O
paid to diagnose the fault, his train fare to collect the car, and his petrol costs to get the car
home. Mr O will need to provide the receipts to Zopa and Zopa should add interest to the
refunds.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Zopa
Bank Limited to:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr O.
End the finance agreement.
Refund 5% of any finance instalments that have been paid and add 8% simple
interest* per year to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr O £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Refund the £60 Mr O paid to have the faults diagnosed.
Refund any unused portion of road tax or car insurance and the cost of Mr Os train
fare to collect the car, and his petrol to return home. Add 8% simple interest* per year
to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Os credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr O nor Zopa provided any further comments or evidence for me to consider.Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Zopa Bank Limited to:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr O.
End the finance agreement.
Refund 5% of any finance instalments that have been paid and add 8% simple
interest* per year to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr O £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Refund the £60 Mr O paid to have the faults diagnosed.
Refund any unused portion of road tax or car insurance and the cost of Mr Os train
fare to collect the car, and his petrol to return home. Add 8% simple interest* per year
to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Os credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman