DRN-4390864
The complaint
Mr E has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) wont refund the money 
he lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr E was invited to a group on an instant messaging app. It focused on investments, run by 
someone who claimed to be affiliated with an established financial information website. 
People in the group left positive comments. This person turned out to be a scammer.
After observing the group for some time, Mr E felt it was legitimate. He was persuaded to 
invest in a cryptocurrency after reading a white paper and being offered returns of around 
100%. He was also told he had to pay for tax and commission up front before he could 
withdraw his gains. Starting in late 2022, Mr E transferred money from his First Direct 
account to a crypto wallet of his, then on from his crypto wallet to the scammer. He sent 
£12,500 in total.
The messaging group and the scammers platform disappeared. Mr E reported the matter to 
First Direct.
First Direct didnt think it was liable for Mr Es loss. It pointed out that it gave him a warning 
and intervened with a phone call, but Mr E wanted to go ahead. And he had paid the money 
to another account in his own name. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. First Direct 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr E and First Direct a provisional decision on 26 September 2023, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be partially upheld. In that decision, I said:
Theres no dispute that Mr E authorised the payments, even if he didnt intend for the money 
to go to scammers. So, under the Payment Services Regulations and the terms of his 
account, Mr E is liable for the loss in the first instance. But the matter doesnt end there.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that First Direct 
should have fairly and reasonably:
Monitored accounts and payments to counter risks such as fraud and scams;
Had systems in place to look out for particularly unusual transactions or other signs 
its customers were at risk of fraud;
In some circumstances, taken further steps or made further checks before a payment 
went out, or even blocked it, to help protect customers  irrespective of the type of 
payment involved.
Ive reviewed Mr Es account activity in the months leading up to the scam, and I think the 
payments involved stand out. While hed made a few large payments before, his first two 
payments to the crypto platform were his largest by a fair way. The money went to a new 
payee with no confirmation of payee, which was a cryptocurrency platform. And he doesnt 
appear to have paid for crypto before. By 2022, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
Action Fraud had published warnings about crypto scams, so First Direct shouldve had a 
good understanding of the risk of these scams and how they work. And I can see that First 
Direct also had concerns about these payments. 
So I think First Direct ought reasonably to have made person-to-person enquiries with Mr E 
from the very first payment, before it processed it. 
I can see that First Direct gave Mr E a warning message at the first payment, and spoke to 
him on the phone about the second. And Im glad that it made some efforts to intervene. 
However, the warning it gave was mostly not relevant to this type of scam and didnt go into 
enough detail to be effective. And its phone call focused on whether Mr E was sure hed paid 
the right account details and that he knew who the beneficiary was.
Had First Direct asked reasonable questions about things like what had prompted Mr E to 
make the payment and how hed found out about the investment, I think it wouldve most 
likely come to light that he was being scammed. For example, hed been cold-contacted on 
an app by an unregulated individual falsely claiming to work for a popular website, hed been 
promised wholly unrealistic returns, hed done no due diligence and received no proper 
paperwork, hed been asked for up-front payments before being able to make withdrawals, 
and so on. Given the circumstances of the payment, the relative prominence of this type of 
scam, and the intelligence First Direct had got about crypto scams from the regulator and 
Action Fraud, Im satisfied it ought to have identified this was most likely a scam and warned 
Mr E or stopped the payments altogether.
Ive found no good reason to think Mr E would not have been honest with First Direct about 
why he was sending this payment. He told them up-front that it was for an investment, he 
thought it was genuine, and the scammers had not told him to lie if questioned. Ive also 
seen no reason why Mr E would not have listened to First Direct  it is a well-known name in 
banking, and he accepted he was not a particularly experienced cryptocurrency investor.
First Direct argued that it shouldnt be held liable for the loss because the transfers were to a 
receiving account in Mr Es name, and I understand its thinking. However, First Direct was 
still obliged to look out for potentially fraudulent payments, even if they were going to another 
account in the customers name. And identifying and preventing such scam payments would 
still have the effect of preventing a loss to its customer. So First Direct can still be held liable 
for a loss which resulted from a failure on its part to sufficiently intervene.
So based on what Ive seen so far, I think First Direct bears some liability for Mr Es losses.Ive also thought carefully about Mr Es role in what happened. I understand that Mr E waited 
before getting involved, read a white paper, and saw other people in the group post positive 
comments. But Im afraid I cant see that Mr E carried out any reasonable checks or due 
diligence before paying the scammers. A quick search wouldve shown that the individual 
running the group had lied about working with the financial information website, and that he 
was not regulated. I can also see there were negative warnings and reviews about this 
person posted online in the months before Mr E began to invest. The returns on offer were 
concerningly unrealistic. Further, Mr E had been cold-contacted via an app, he hadnt 
received any proper paperwork, and so on. Im afraid I think that Mr E ought to have had 
more concerns along the way about what he was being advised to do.
So I cant fairly hold First Direct solely responsible for Mr Es losses. I currently think Mr E 
should also bear some responsibility. In this case, I think the fairest thing is for each side to 
be held liable for 50% of the loss. I also think First Direct should pay some simple interest on 
its share of the loss, to compensate Mr E for the time he was without that money.
Ive also considered whether First Direct should have done more to try to recover Mr Es 
money. But as the transfers went to his own crypto account, and the funds had then been 
spent, Im afraid there wasnt anything more that First Direct could really do there.
Lastly, Ive thought carefully about the stress and upset which Mr E suffered here. I certainly 
empathise with the considerable stress he was caused by the scam. But I think it was the 
scammers, rather than First Direct, who are really responsible for Mr Es distress here. And 
from listening to Mr Es calls with First Direct, it can see it handled things sensitively. So 
I dont plan to tell First Direct to pay further compensation.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Both sides let me know they 
had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) to:
Refund 50% of the payments involved, totalling £6,250;
Pay 8% simple interest per year on its half of each payment, calculated from the date 
of each payment to the date of settlement.
If First Direct considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct tax 
from that simple interest, it should tell Mr E how much tax its taken off. It should also give 
Mr E a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one. Mr E may be able to reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if he doesnt normally pay tax.My final decision
I uphold Mr Es complaint in part, and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right in the way 
I set out above.
If Mr E accepts the final decision, HSBC UK Bank Plc must carry out the redress within 28 
days of the date our service notifies it of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman