DRN-2243207
The complaint
Miss M and Mr M complain about the process followed by The Co-operative Bank Plc 
(Co-op) during a call to order a replacement debit card.
 
What happened
On 6 February 2020 Mr M called Co-op because his debit card had been damaged and he 
wanted to arrange a replacement. Mr M entered Miss Ms security PIN and the call handler 
queried why that had occurred. 
The call handler spoke with Mr M and Miss M to ask about how a PIN had been shared. The 
call handler questions Mr M further and arranged for a replacement debit card to be sent. 
Miss M has explained that Mr M has learning difficulties and suffers with confidence. Miss M 
says that the way the call was handled had upset Mr M. Miss M also says Co-op breached 
their security because it shared her security PIN with Mr M. 
Miss M and Mr M complained to Co-op over the phone on 7 February 2020. Co-op sent a 
generic follow up response to the complaint but didnt take any further action.
The complaint was referred to our service and it was passed to an investigator. In Co-ops 
submission, it offered Miss M and Mr M £75 to apologise for the way the call was handled. 
Our investigator asked Co-op to increase its offer to £150 to reflect the impact of how the call 
had gone. Co-op agreed but Miss M and Mr M didnt accept. In response to the investigator, 
Miss M said the offer didnt reflect the seriousness of the breach in security. As Miss M and 
Mr M asked to appeal, their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call from 6 February 2020 and I agree that it could have been handled 
better by Co-op. Co-op has told us that the correct process wasnt followed and has 
apologised for how Miss M and Mr M were made to feel. Co-op has also agreed to pay 
Miss M and Mr M £150 to reflect the impact of the way the call was handled. 
Miss M says Co-op is guilty of a serious security breach because it shared information about 
their PINs during the call on 6 February 2020. But I think its fair to say that the situation was 
unusual as Mr M had used Miss Ms details to log into telephone banking. Im satisfied there 
were grounds for Co-op to ask questions to verify whether Miss M and Mr Ms PINs had 
been shared. 
Ive listened to the call from 6 February 2020 and whilst the call handler confirmed Miss Ms 
PIN had been used by Mr M, that reflects what happened. The call handler then offered to 
arrange for a new PIN to be set to help protect the account. Miss M told the call handler that 
she didnt want a new PIN and understood Mr K was aware of hers. 
I note the call handler confirmed that they had no knowledge of the PIN that was being used 
 only that Mr M had used Miss Ms details. I also think its reasonable to say that Co-op 
wasnt responsible for sharing Miss Ms PIN as Mr M had already used it when he started the 
call. Miss Ms PIN appears to have been information Mr M either had or was able to guess 
without Co-op involvement. 
I think it was reasonable for Co-ops call handler to have queried why Mr M had been able to 
use Miss Ms credentials, as it has to protect its customers accounts. I can see that this 
situation came about by chance and there was no intention by Miss M or Mr M to mislead 
Co-op. But Im satisfied there were reasonable grounds to ask further questions about what 
had happened. 
Co-op has confirmed that the call handler didnt follow the correct verification process and 
accepts that the service provided should have been better. Co-op also accepts that it told 
Miss M a full complaint response would be sent but that didnt happen. Co-op has offered 
Miss M and Mr M £150 to apologise. Ive noted everything Miss M and Mr M have said about 
how the situation impacted them. Having done so, Im satisfied that £150 is fair in all the 
circumstances. As I think the current settlement is a fair way to resolve this case, Im going 
to proceed an uphold Miss M and Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay 
Miss M and Mr M £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman