DRN-2924502
The complaint
Ms M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money she lost, which she believes was 
as the result of a scam.
What happened
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the background to be as follows.
Ms M was looking to get some negative links removed from the internet. She had made 
attempts to do this herself, but had been unsuccessful and so located a company online and 
contacted them about removing the links.
Ms M has said she discussed her needs with the company who gave her a price for the work 
and it told her it would be able to remove the links. Ms M agreed for the work to be done and 
went ahead and made three payments to the company, from her Monzo account, totalling 
£10,700. A breakdown of the payments is below;
14 April 2020  £8,100.00
14 April 2020  £1,600.00
16 April 2020  £1,000.00
Ms M also received another request for a payment for £2,140, which the company has said 
was for VAT, that they had excluded from the cost in error. But Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest this payment was made from Ms Ms Monzo account. 
The company emailed Ms M confirming the agreement for 13 negative links to be removed. 
However, Ms M later received a communication from the company that showed they had 
tried, but not been able to remove the links. The email included an attachment from a well-
known search engine company explaining why the links couldnt be removed. Ms M says  
the response was no different to what she had received, when she had previously attempted 
to remove the links herself. She said the company had told her they had legal ways of 
removing content, but had just used the same method to try and remove them as shed done 
herself for free.
Ms M contacted the company and asked for her money back, as she said she hadnt 
received the service she had paid for. On not receiving a response, Ms M contacted the 
company again and said she would send the invoice shed received onto HMRC as it didnt 
include a VAT registration number. Following this Ms M received a response from the 
company  it provided its VAT registration number and confirmed that the links couldnt be 
removed. It informed Ms M that it considered the matter closed.
Ms M then contacted Monzo to raise her concerns. Monzo went on to consider its obligations 
to provide Ms M with a refund. Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, despite not being a signatory of it. The 
CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams  
in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions 
applies in this case.
Monzo issued its final response to Ms M on 7 June 2020, not upholding Ms Ms complaint. It 
said while it understood Ms Ms upset and it was sorry for the predicament she was in, it 
deemed the matter to be a civil dispute between Ms M and the company. Adding that it 
wouldnt be able to treat this payment as a scam.
Ms M then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint, as he considered this was a dispute 
between Ms M and the company who she had made the payments to.
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary, she didnt agree that this 
wasnt a scam. Ms M maintained that shed paid for a legal service and the company hadnt 
done, and didnt have any intention, of doing what shed paid for.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having thought very carefully about Monzos actions, Im not intending to uphold Ms Ms 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Monzo should reimburse her. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms M, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that her money should be returned to her. Its understandable for such a 
significant sum why Ms M feels she has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases where 
individuals have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Monzo has 
committed to follow and which was in force at the time Ms M made the payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payments Ms M made and, in particular, whether Monzo ought to 
reimburse her under the provisions of the CRM Code. But the CRM Code is quite explicit 
that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payments Ms M made formed part of a civil 
dispute and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code. Ms M strongly disagrees. She feels 
the company she paid set out with the intention to scam her. 
After taking everything into careful consideration, so the testimony and evidence provided by 
both parties, Ive not seen anything that I can safely say meets the high legal threshold and 
burden of proof for fraud. 
Ive seen that the company Ms M paid is a registered limited company, which was 
incorporated in 2017 and whose principle activity is computer facilities management. 
Alongside this, the VAT registration number, it provided Ms M, also appears to be 
legitimately registered to the company. Im also mindful that, while it was unable to remove 
the links, it seems that the company did make an attempt to and kept Ms M informed, which 
are not the typical hallmarks of a company who set out with the intent to defraud.
Its clear the agreement Ms M entered into with the company did not go as planned and she 
has not received what she was expecting. And I can understand entirely why she feels so 
strongly about what has happened. But I cant safely say with any certainty, that the 
company set out with an intent to defraud her.
Rather, this appears to be a case of a legitimate company that hasnt satisfied a customer 
with the service it has provided. So, on balance, taking into account everything thats been 
said and provided, I cant fairly conclude that Ms M has been a victim of a scam or that the 
company she made her payments to were operating fraudulently.
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly ask Monzo 
to refund the money Ms M has lost, as I dont think Monzo treated Ms M unfairly when it said 
the payment she made was not covered by the CRM Code. And I dont think there was 
anything else Monzo could have done to prevent her loss.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Ms M and I dont underestimate the impact 
this matter has had on her. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask Monzo to refund the money Ms M has lost.
I can see Ms M has mentioned that she is considering taking this matter through the courts. 
Ms M doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if she doesnt it wont be binding on her. 
Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Ms Ms right to pursue a 
legal remedy wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint 
against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman