DRN-2369642
The complaint
Mr W complains Prudential Pensions Limited (Prudential) has refused to honour an annuity 
quotation it provided, and which was accepted within the accepted timeframe. He further 
complains Prudential paid the Lifetime Allowance excess charge out of his fund, reducing his 
annuity further. He asks the original accepted quotation to be honoured and adequate 
redress for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
What happened
Mr W has held a pension plan with Prudential for several years. As he came to consider his 
retirement options, he requested a number of quotations. In August and September 2019, 
Prudential issued a number of different quotes, all of which were valid for 30 days.
On 17 September 2019, Mr W responded in writing to accept a quotation for a lump sum of 
£39,000 and an annuity of £11,585.52. This was on the basis of a 100% spouses pension 
and a 10-year Guarantee. He also asked Prudential to confirm the value of the Lifetime 
Allowance excess charge.
On 23 September 2019, Prudential wrote requesting Mr W contact its customer services to 
confirm the choice he had made. It also sent an additional form, under separate cover, 
requesting Mr W complete the details of his Fixed Protection and the position regarding the 
Lifetime Allowance. Mr W duly carried out all the requests made by Prudential.
On 1 October 2019, Prudential wrote to Mr W again to say there was a problem with the 
form and it needed to be completed again. Unsure of the problem Mr W attempted to contact 
Prudential throughout October in an attempt to complete the form correctly. He was met with 
great difficulty but eventually managed to complete it, it was return on 21 October 2019.
On 20 November Prudential confirmed the annuity had been set up in accordance with Mr 
Ws instructions, but he noticed it was for an amount of £9,690.24 rather than £11,582.52 he 
accepted. Mr W queried this and was told the reduction was due to the deduction of Lifetime 
Allowance excess charge of £12,340.81. This had been deducted from the fund prior to the 
annuity calculation. Mr W did not feel this information was correct and so he complained.
Mr W said he had received particularly poor customer service; an annuity had been set up 
for a lower value than he had accepted without explanation or confirmation and he had not 
been given the option to pay the Lifetime Allowance excess charge separately to HMRC.
In its final response dated 30 December 2019, Prudential agreed with the points Mr W raised 
and upheld his complaint. After investigation, it said it provided Mr W with an incorrect 
quotation, explaining that the annuity had reduced not just because of the application of the 
excess charge but because the wrong figure had been quoted initially. It accepted it had 
failed to provide Mr W with the level of service he should have expected. It offered to rewind 
the annuity, to allow Mr W to consider his options again (subject to the return of the tax-free 
cash) and offered £1,000 by way of an apology for the trouble and upset this matter had 
caused.
Mr W remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr W. He could understand Mr Ws frustration as it was 
evident, he had gone to great lengths to ensure he had considered all his options prior to 
making such an important decision. He appreciated Mr W wanted the original quote to be 
honoured but explained this service couldnt enforce this option as Prudential had already 
explained it had made an error. He considered Prudential actions in offering to rewind the 
annuity and put him back in the position he would have been in had the error not occurred to 
be fair and reasonable. He also felt £1000 was in line with the redress this service would 
expect for the acknowledged errors and so he didnt ask Prudential to do anything further.
Mr W disagreed. He feels Prudential has reneged on contract both parties agreed to without 
any substantiation. He remains of the view the original quote should be honoured, and he 
asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr W, Ill explain why.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and by Prudential. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred. 
There is no dispute here that something has gone wrong. Prudential has provided incorrect 
information and poor customer service. It had acknowledged the errors and apologised for 
them. The issue is now how to put things right.
Mr W has raised two main concerns. The way the Lifetime Allowance excess charge was 
paid, specifically from his fund without his knowledge or the option for him to pay it directly to 
HMRC and Prudentials failure to honour the quotation he accepted and, in his view, the 
limited evidence for how the lower value it said was the correct quotation. 
Was Prudential correct to pay the Lifetime Allowance excess charge directly from Mr Ws 
fund to HMRC?
Prudential are right to say that they are responsible for paying this charge. Although there is 
joint liability, it is under HMRC instruction that the scheme administrator (in this case, Prudential) is responsible for making payment from the fund. I note the investigator has 
provide links to the necessary regulations and so I dont intend to repeat them.
Due to the rules set by HMRC, this is not a charge Mr W would have been able to pay 
directly. This charge must be applied to the pension, before its paid. The lifetime allowance
charge is applied to any excess over the allowance at 55% for lump sums and 25% for 
income. I understand both Mr W and his financial adviser were aware there would be a 
charge, so this isnt in dispute. 
I would have expected Prudential to have made Mr W aware of this charge and also 
reflected this in the annuity calculation and I havent seen any evidence it did this. So, whilst, 
it was required to make the deduction under HMRC regulations, it could and should have 
made Mr W aware of the impact that would have on his fund and his annuity payments.
Should Prudential honour the original quotation it provided, and Mr W accepted?
I can understand why Mr W wants the preferable quote honoured but this service cant ask a 
business to honour what it has already acknowledged was an error. I appreciate Mr Ws 
concerns regarding what evidence Prudential has provided to show it was incorrect and that 
in failing to do, he feels a decision he took in good faith has been undermined. I have some 
sympathy with his sentiments, and I agree there isnt any reasoning beyond it was an error. 
But miscalculations do occur. The error should have been spotted and Mr W informed before 
the annuity was set up, the failure to do so is a further example of the poor customer service 
Mr W has received.
As I explained earlier, in circumstances such as these this service seeks to put the 
consumer back in the position, they would have been in had the error not have happened. In 
offering to rewind the annuity, this would put Mr W back in the position he was in before he 
accepted the annuity and this, in my view, is a fair and reasonable way to resolve the matter 
should Mr W choose to do so.
Whether Mr W chooses to rewind the annuity or not, it remains the position that Prudential 
has acknowledged he has received very poor customer service and incorrect information.
I understand Mr W doesnt feel the compensation offered is adequate for the trouble and 
upset this matter has caused him. I appreciate from his submissions that he has gone to 
great lengths to try and explain his position and to gain an explanation from Prudential for its 
actions. So, Ive got to decide if I think Prudential has offered enough. When Im looking at 
this, I think about what Mr W tells us about his wider circumstances and why Prudentials 
actions caused him so much trouble. I have to take on board that Prudential acknowledges 
he didnt get the level of customer service it would have liked to have given. But I also have 
to think about the size of awards that this service typically gives for trouble and upset, and 
they do tend to be modest.
I empathise with the sheer frustration this matter has caused Mr W and I acknowledge the 
number of errors Prudential made have caused him a great deal of distress and 
inconvenience. But, in my view, I think £1000 is fair and reasonable compensation and so 
Im unable to ask Prudential to increase it further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I direct Prudential Pensions Limited to:
Allow Mr W the option to rewind the annuity (subject to the return of the tax-free cash element)
Pay Mr W £1000 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman