DRN-3989276
The complaint
L, a limited company, complain about Society of Lloyds decision to withdraw funding from a 
claim under their employers liability insurance policy and its lack of clarity about the 
decision-making process.  
Where I refer to Society of Lloyds, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers 
for which it takes responsibility. 
What happened
In 2018, L made a claim under their employers liability insurance policy to defend a criminal 
prosecution for alleged breaches of health and safety laws. A panel firm of solicitors were 
initially appointed, but in 2019 L asked to use a solicitor of its own choice. This was agreed 
and cover was put in place for their costs to seek an adjournment of a hearing.
In 2020, Society of Lloyds obtained counsels legal opinion on the merits of the case. The 
barrister was of the opinion that prospects of defending the claim were low and no more than 
20%. Because of this, Society of Lloyds withdrew funding from the claim on the basis that it 
didnt satisfy the policy terms and conditions. 
L complain that this decision was unfair. They also say Society of Lloyds didnt inform them 
of this decision directly, only their solicitors, so they werent aware until recently that cover 
wasnt in place. 
L brought their complaint to our service, but our Investigator didnt uphold it. He was satisfied 
Society of Lloyds decision was in line with the policy terms and that it wasnt unfair. He 
didnt think it had done anything unreasonable in the way it communicated the decision 
either. As L didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ls employers liability insurance policy says theres cover for 
the following:
Criminal Prosecution Defence Costs
The insurance by this section extends to cover the insured at their requestagainst 
the legal fees and expenses incurred with the insurers prior written approval in 
defending the insured in respect of a prosecution under the1) Health and Safety at 
Work Act 1974.
provided that 
1. the insurer at its sole discretion may require the opinion of counsel as to whether 
or not such legal fees and expenses should extend or continue to extend to the 
support of such defence
2. the insurer shall not be responsible for any legal fees or expenses incurred 
following receipt of a counsels opinion advising that there is no reasonable 
defence to the prosecution
3. the choice of counsel is at the insurers sole discretion.
On this basis, Im satisfied it was fair for Society of Lloyds to obtain counsels opinion on the 
merits of the claim to ensure there was a reasonable defence as required by the policy. 
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
As the advice was well-reasoned, obtained from a suitably qualified lawyer, and wasnt 
obviously wrong, I see no reason why Society of Lloyds couldnt rely on it when making a 
claims decision. 
L are unhappy that Society of Lloyds didnt inform them of this decision directly. But as L 
had appointed a solicitor of their own choice to act for them under the policy terms, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Society of Lloyds to communicate this decision to the solicitors 
with the expectation that it would be passed onto L. It also explained that should there be 
any other evidence or information that may alter the barristers opinion, this should be 
provided. From what I can see, no further submissions or any dispute over the legal opinion 
was received. 
Solicitors have a professional duty to explain to their clients how a claim will be funded and 
what costs are being incurred that theyre responsible for. Its also usual practice for the 
solicitors to submit interim bills to the paying party. Its not clear whether Ls solicitor did so 
or why L wasnt aware that funding had been withdrawn until recently. But I cant fairly hold 
Society of Lloyds responsible for the conduct of a firm of solicitors. So if L has concerns, 
they should raise these to the solicitors directly, who have their own regulating body and 
ombudsman service. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman