DRN-1658910
 
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Consumer Compensation Bureau Ltd, trading as Claiming Made 
Simple (CMS), didnt progress his claim against Lender N, and now hes lost the opportunity 
to do so. 
What happened
Mr P originally instructed CMS to make a claim for potentially mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI), against Lender N, in November 2018. But CMS didnt do anything with the 
claim and, in May 2019, Mr P completed a new set of authority forms.
The deadline for making any new claim was 29 August 2019. CMS say they sent a PPI 
Information Request (PIR) to Lender N, which would confirm whether Mr P had been sold 
PPI or not. They also say that Lender N hasnt responded to the PIR as yet.
Mr P has complained that hes now lost out on the opportunity to make a claim, as the 
deadline has now passed. Hes also unhappy that CMS told him his claim would be 
successful and that they havent kept him updated on his claim.
Our investigator said shed seen no evidence that Mr P had been told his claim would be 
successful. But she said shed also seen no evidence that CMS had sent a PIR to Lender N, 
or taken any action to chase a response for this - Lender N said they dont have any claims 
for Mr P. And CMS havent been able to evidence they kept Mr P updated.
The investigator said CMS had had ample time to submit a PIR/claim for Mr N before the 
deadline, but didnt do so. So she thought Mr P had now lost the opportunity to make a 
claim, and recommended that CMS pay him £250 to compensate him for this.
Mr P agreed with the investigator, but CMS didnt. They maintain they submitted the PIR and 
that, if Mr P was sold PPI, then Lender N will convert this to a claim. So they dont feel that 
Mr P has lost any opportunity, and they dont agree they should pay him any compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Its not disputed that Mr P first instructed CMS to act for him in November 2018, although 
neither party can provide any evidence of this. Ive seen CMSs email of 13 May 2019, which 
says thanks for reconfirming your details  we can confirm that your signed paperwork has 
been received and that we will now begin to progress your claim.  By referring to a reconfirmation of details, this indicates that Mr P instructed CMS before May 2019. And in 
the absence of anything to the contrary, Ill take this as being in November 2018.
Although theyve not provided any evidence of this, CMS say they updated Mr P by text 
message on 10 October, 22 October and 3 December 2019. Despite having a regulatory 
obligation to keep all call recordings after 1 April 2019, CMS also say they dont have any 
call recordings and cant provide an audit trail for the actions theyve taken on Mr Ps behalf. 
But, as part of their comments on the investigators view, CMS have provided a spreadsheet 
with Mr Ps details on it. They say this was sent to Lender N on 2 August 2019 and they feel 
this proves they made the PIR. PIR requests are made by spreadsheet, so this is what Id 
expect to see. But CMS have only provided a copy of a spreadsheet and not any evidence 
this was sent. And the spreadsheet is dated August 2019, despite Mr P originally instructing 
them in November 2018 and again in May 2019. 
In an email dated 23 January 2020, Lender N have confirmed they have completed an 
extensive search on our database records, using the information you have provided below 
and have been unable to find a record of a complaint relating to [Mr P]. 
There have been serious delays in dealing with Mr Ps claim which CMS cant account for. 
Because of their regulatory obligation to keep records, and because they cant provide any, 
its reasonable for me to conclude that CMS didnt take any action on Mr Ps claim. And 
because of the email Ive seen from Lender N, I cant say that CMS sent a PIR for Mr P. 
And CMS didnt keep Mr P updated as to what was going on (most probably because they 
werent actually doing anything, so there was no update to give). The text messages they 
say they sent in late 2019 could only have said they were waiting to hear from Lender N  
but Lender N say they havent received anything and CMS cant show me otherwise.
Putting things right
Im in agreement with the investigator that Mr P has now lost the opportunity to make his 
claim. Mr P now wont know if he was ever mis-sold PPI by Lender N and I agree that CMS 
should compensate him £250 for the worry that hell now never know this.
Id also like to say that, given the complete lack of progress on Mr Ps PIR/claim by CMS, 
and the complete lack of updates; had CMS shown me evidence that theyd submitted the 
PIR in August 2018 (which they maintain they did) then I would still say Mr P would be due 
some compensation. And given the length of time CMS took no action, I dont think that £250 
for the stress and upset caused by these delays wouldve been unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ps complaint. Consumer Compensation 
Bureau Ltd must pay Mr P £250 to compensate him for the loss of opportunity for his mis-
sold PPI claims against Lender N to be considered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman