DRN-3766431
The complaint
Mr A complains Santander UK Plc allowed his basic current account to go into an 
unauthorised overdraft when authorising a card payment.
What happened
In July 2022 a merchant put through a payment on Mr As card which placed his basic 
current account into an unauthorised overdraft position. 
Mr A complained to Santander as he said the terms and conditions of his account should not 
have allowed it to go into this position; and that therefore Santander should not have 
authorised the payment. Santander didnt uphold Mr As complaint, so he brought it to our 
service for review.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She said the terms and conditions of his 
basic current account provided for the account to go into an unauthorised overdraft position 
if Santander was unable to refuse the payment. She was satisfied Santander had acted fairly 
when by allowing the account to go into the unauthorised overdraft position as the payment 
was made via Mr As card  and Santander was unable to refuse this payment.
Mr A disagreed. He said the payment should not have been approved; and that he has 
suffered a financial loss because other payments due to debit his account have been 
returned. Mr A has said this situation had caused him distress and placed him into financial 
difficulties.
Mr A asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr As basic current account to consider what 
Santander ought reasonably to have done when it received the payment request on the card 
linked to Mr As account and it would place his account in an unauthorised overdraft. 
Section four of the basic current account terms and conditions state:
4. Overdraft
Our overdraft services are not available on this account and you will not incur any overdraft 
charges. If you try to make a payment when you do not have enough money in your account, 
we will normally refuse the payment due to lack of funds. However there may be 
circumstances where you make a payment that we are unable to refuse which will take your 
account into an Unarranged Overdraft. No fee or interest will be charged for this.
So, I consider the terms and conditions of Mr As account do provide for situations where a 
payment is unable to be refused which would cause the account to go into an unauthorised 
overdraft position.
It does appear, from the evidence Santander has provided, that the merchant requesting the 
payment had attempted to do so previously under different methods. Santander had refused 
these due to insufficient funds on Mr As account, so it appears the merchant then processed 
this payment in a different way which meant Santander was unable to refuse it. So, I cant 
agree Santander acted unfairly when this payment was made via a method it couldnt refuse, 
and it placed Mr As account into an unauthorised overdraft.
In any event, Mr A has confirmed hed received the goods in relation to this payment, and 
hes not said that he didnt authorise the payment or was unaware of it. So, it appears Mr A 
ought to have been aware that this payment would be debited to his account. 
The terms and conditions of Mr As account confirm that no fee or interest will be charged for 
unauthorised overdrafts; and Santander has confirmed Mr A hasnt been charged. So, in any 
event Im satisfied Mr A hasnt suffered a financial loss due to his account going into an 
unauthorised overdraft. 
Mr A has said other direct debits have not been paid because of the current unauthorised 
overdraft position of his account. Hes said this has caused a financial loss as other 
organisations, including charities, have had direct debits returned unpaid. Hes also said this 
has caused distress and hes suggested this has led to financial difficulties and that hes not 
been able to afford essential items such as food.  
Im sorry to hear this situation has placed Mr A into this position. I can understand not being 
able to pay for basic necessities is distressing; and that he has concerns that payments to 
other organisations, including charities, have been unpaid. Weve previously made Mr A 
aware of organisation that may be able to assist him in this situation, and I would encourage 
Mr A to engage with these organisations if he is still in this financial situation.
Id like to assure Mr A that Ive carefully considered all of the testimony hes provided us 
throughout the complaint history about this situation. But, the crux of this complaint centres 
around Santanders actions of allowing the account to go into an unauthorised overdraft. And 
as Ive found above, I dont think it acted unfairly by doing so. Ultimately, its Mr As 
responsibility to ensure he has money in his account to cover any bills or payments he has 
made. And for this reason, I cant hold Santander responsible for any subsequent payments 
that were later unpaid due to insufficient funds; or agree that the distress Mr A has suffered 
was because of an error caused by Santander.
So, as Ive found Santander hasnt acted unfairly by allowing Mr As account to go into an 
unauthorised overdraft position, Im satisfied it doesnt need to take any further action in 
resolution of this complaint. 
I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision due to his strength of feeling on the 
matter; and the distress he has said this situation has caused him. But I hope my decision 
sets out why Ive reached this outcome. 
I would encourage Mr A to engage with Santander to discuss a suitable repayment 
arrangement if there is still a balance owing on his account; and I would remind Santander of 
its obligations to treat Mr A fairly while collecting any monies due.My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr As complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman