DRN-4107591
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Leeds Building Society unfairly withdrew their mortgage offer 
which meant they couldnt port their mortgage product. They would like their porting and exit 
fees to be refunded and compensation for the losses they suffered.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R agreed a five-year fixed mortgage product with Leeds in February 2018. They 
later wanted to port their mortgage product to another property. The mortgage balance was 
£83,000 and the new property was valued at £279,500. They sold their property on 30 
September 2021 and moved to temporary accommodation paying an early repayment 
charge (ERC) of £2,184.00 and an exit fee. Mr and Mrs R experienced difficulties with 
getting the new mortgage for the new build property but following a complaint and the 
payment of some compensation, a mortgage offer issued on 2 December. But then Mr and 
Mrs R say that two complications arose when the builder selling the land offered them a 
quarter of an acre of land for a nominal fee. These complications were a 20-year overage 
clause and a six feet strip of land which led alongside their boundary with access to a house 
on the edge of their land. Mr and Mrs R say that this was redundant, and the builder had 
already applied for it to be extinguished.
Although Leeds had already issued a mortgage offer, it subsequently withdrew it. Leeds said 
it did that because of information it received from its valuer that as there was a contiguous 
land issue it could interfere with the quiet use and enjoyment of the land and frustrate the 
sale of the property in the event of a repossession. The valuer didnt recommend that this 
sale proceeded. As the valuer recommended that the application didnt proceed, Leeds 
accepted the valuers recommendation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as Leeds was 
entitled to rely on the opinion of a suitable qualified professional. Mr and Mrs R disagreed 
and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is somewhat unusual arising out of a change in a property that was being 
bought after the mortgage offer issued and I requested further information from the parties in 
order to give careful consideration to the outcome.  
Mr and Mrs R wanted to sell their property and get another mortgage with Leeds on a new 
property and port their mortgage product. I recognise that there were some difficulties getting 
the mortgage offer. That offer issued and as our investigator highlighted it contained a 
clause that it could be withdrawn if information came to light which impacted the value of the 
property as security. The issue which is the subject of this complaint arose in relation to Mr 
and Mrs R wanting to buy an additional parcel of adjoining land at a nominal price. This land 
which bounded the main parcel of land had a 20-year overage clause and a right of way to 
another house. Leeds told Mr and Mrs R that if the solicitor and valuer were happy to 
proceed with the revised plans they would go along with it.
Leeds went back to the valuer who said:
Further to your enquiry the proposals here create a contiguous land issue which could 
potentially interfere with the quiet use and enjoyment of the land and frustrate the sale of the 
property in the event of a repossession. Consequently, in these circumstances we cannot 
recommended that this application proceed
Leeds then told Mr and Mrs R that as the valuer could not approve the application based on 
the referral, it was unable to proceed with this application. Mr and Mrs R were naturally 
disappointed and later got a valuation from a local estate agent indicating that the property 
had increased by £45,000 in value over a few months.
Leeds is a lender, and its loans are based on the security of property. It engages suitably 
qualified valuers to determine whether the property it lends against is good security. In this 
case, Leeds was told by the valuers in clear terms that the application cannot proceed. The 
valuer had been sent the plans drawn up by Mr and Mrs R and their builder and their 
comments on these and came to a definitive conclusion and recommendation to Leeds not 
to approve the lending. Leeds made no comments on these plans and didnt seek to 
influence the valuer.
My role is to investigate this complaint and decide whether Leeds has done anything wrong. 
I cannot say it has if it has followed the clear direction of its valuer. Mr and Mrs R may 
disagree with the advice of the valuer and wish it were different and I can see why they 
might. But Leeds has done nothing wrong in following that advice.  Mr and Mrs R have 
suggested that it was in Leeds interest that the application not proceed, as the ERC would 
be refunded, and evidenced by the delay in processing the original application.. But I see 
nothing to suggest that this played a part in Leads decision-making process. The application 
had been accepted until, as Mr and Mrs R say, that two complications were introduced. 
Leeds said that it would proceed if the solicitor and valuer were happy. In the event the 
valuer wasnt content with the security offered and it didnt proceed. 
Mr and Mrs R say that the valuers recommendation was based on what would happen in a 
repossession situation and that is to ignore their financial standing which Leeds was well 
aware of. But Mr and Mrs Rs healthy financial situation at the moment whilst relevant to the 
affordability of the mortgage doesnt preclude a possibility that their financial situation might 
change in the future. I dont consider it irrelevant that Leeds should consider what might 
happen to their security in a repossession situation and try and protect itself. I also note that 
the response from the estate agent dated 11 January 2022 which states that the additional 
land could add value doesnt deal with the issues of concern to Leeds valuer. I see no 
mention of overage, right of way, contiguous land problem or reference to a repossession 
situation. For the reasons set out above, I dont believe that Leeds has done anything wrong 
in following the valuers recommendation and I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManusOmbudsman