DRN-3380169
The complaint
Mr P complains that Unum Ltd has declined a claim under his employers group critical 
illness scheme. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In February 2020 Mr P became a member of his employers group critical illness insurance 
scheme (the scheme). In April 2021 he was diagnosed with Diamond Blackfan Anaemia 
(DBA). The treatment for which included a bone marrow transplant.
In June 2021 Mr P made a claim under the scheme. Unum first declined the claim on the 
basis that Mr P wasnt on the bone marrow transplant list and that his DBA didnt meet the 
policy definition. 
Upon further consideration, Unum said the bone marrow transplant was because of 
investigations that started before Mr P joined the scheme and led to his eventual DBA 
diagnosis. And so was excluded under the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr P 
complained to Unum, but it maintained its position. 
Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He said whilst he had 
investigations in November 2019, he was unaware of his diagnosis of DBA and the need for 
a bone marrow transplant until April 2021 (having had further investigations in January 2021) 
 after joining the scheme. 
Mr P said Unum had added to the distress already caused by his DBA diagnosis. And he 
was suffering financially too. He wanted the claim to be paid. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She thought Unums decision 
to decline the claim was in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr P didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said it wasnt until he had 
tests in January 2021 that the DBA was known to him  and there was no mention of a bone 
marrow transplant until the DBA was formally diagnosed in April 2021. Mr P said his treating 
specialists confirmed his DBA wasnt known to him until the January 2021 tests that led to 
the DBA diagnosis.
Mr P also felt Unum had suggested it wouldve accepted his claim, albeit for the fact he 
wasnt on the transplant list, not making it clear from the outset the claim would be declined 
regardless due to the pre-existing conditions exclusion. Mr P added hes since found out he 
had been on the transplant list since April 2021  at the point his DBA was diagnosed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry to hear of Mr Ps ill health. Its clear that hes been through an incredibly 
traumatic time. And I can see that pursuing this claim has been particularly difficult and 
upsetting for him. 
Having carefully considered everything weve been provided, Im not upholding this 
complaint, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. I know this wont be the answer 
Mr P hoped for. Id like to reassure him that I havent taken this decision lightly. I realise that 
the outcome of this complaint could have potentially life-changing consequences for him. But 
I cannot consider a complaint on compassionate grounds. I must consider whether Unum 
has acted fairly and reasonably in light of all the circumstances and evidence. While I dont 
want to add to Mr Ps distress, I cant say Unum acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain 
why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It might help if I explain that group critical illness policies operate differently to individual 
policies. Theyre not medically underwritten  so no medical information is obtained about a 
member before joining the scheme. But to protect itself from claims being made for medical 
conditions that existed before a member joined the scheme, the insurer will apply pre-
existing and related conditions exclusions to all members on all claims, as outlined in the 
policy terms and conditions. 
Unum considered Mr Ps claim under two insurable conditions: 
Aplastic anaemia  of specified severity
Complete bone marrow failure which results in anaemia, neutropenia and 
thrombocytopenia and requires as a minimum one of the following treatments:
-blood transfusion
-bone marrow transplantation
-immunosuppressive agents
-marrow stimulating agents
and:
Major Organ transplant  from another donor
The undergoing as a recipient from another doner, or inclusion on an official UK 
waiting list for any transplant of the following: 
-bone marrow, or 
-a complete heart, kidney, liver, lung or pancreas or, 
-a lobe of liver or - a lobe of lung
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
Transplant of any other organ, parts of organs, tissues or cells
Its not in dispute that Mr Ps DBA doesnt meet the aplastic anaemia definition. And its 
agreed that Mr P was to undergo a bone marrow transplant. So, I wont consider those points further. This case centres on the fact Unum has declined Mr Ps claim under major 
organ transplant based on the following pre-existing and related conditions exclusion:  
Pre-existing and related conditions exclusions

Ongoing investigations: No benefit will be paid for any medical condition or surgical 
procedure where the member was undergoing ongoing medical investigations or 
monitoring before the date of becoming a member, which led to the later diagnosis of 
a critical illness or related condition.
Mr P thinks his claim should be accepted, given his DBA diagnosis and need for a transplant 
werent known about until after he joined the scheme. And he says this is supported by his 
specialists.
I can see from Mr Ps medical records that he was undergoing regular blood tests since 
2015. And a hospital referral letter from May 2015 confirmed, I would be grateful for your 
reassurance that his haematological abnormalities are not representative of any sinister 
illness.
Investigations continued and a letter from November 2019 said:
[Mr P] and his mother participated in the 100,000 genomes project. This has 
identified that he has a variant of the RPL35A gene. This is not a known 
pathogenic variant (it has not been previously identified in association with 
medical problems), however other RPL gene variants are associated with other 
rare haematological conditions such as Diamond Blackfan Anaemia (a condition 
that can cause low blood count as well-as being associated with other congenital 
anomalies).
The letter also confirmed that further investigations were arranged to ensure there were no 
cardio issues and a follow-up was arranged for six-months time with a repeat blood count.
As our investigator has explained to Mr P  the existence of a condition and the diagnosis of 
a condition are very different things  but in terms of risk to an insurer, both are equally 
relevant. 
In Mr Ps case, its accepted that a formal diagnosis of DBA wasnt made until April 2021 
(after Mr P became a member of the scheme). But Im satisfied the medical evidence shows 
there had been ongoing investigations for several years prior to Mr P joining the scheme, 
which later resulted in the DBA diagnosis and the need for a bone marrow transplant. 
Therefore, from Unums perspective, theres evidence to suggest the DBA was pre-existing 
before Mr P joined the scheme. 
Mr P has looked to separate the investigations that led to his DBA diagnosis from the bone 
marrow transplant in terms of the exclusion. I can completely understand why hes done that 
given the transplant only came about after the DBA diagnosis in April 2021 - after he joined 
the scheme. But the bone marrow transplant is treatment in relation to the DBA  and the 
DBA was diagnosed because of the ongoing investigations. And so, I think the above 
exclusion would still apply, as no benefit will be paid for any medical condition or surgical 
procedure where the member was undergoing ongoing medical investigations or monitoring 
before the date of becoming a member.So, based on the evidence Ive seen; Im satisfied Unum declined Mr Ps claim in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. 
I can understand why Mr P felt Unum was changing its position, first basing its decision on 
whether Mr P was on the transplant list, and then applying the pre-existing condition 
exclusion.  But I cant agree that its responses to the claim were incorrect or that it misled 
Mr P into thinking a claim would be paid once he was on the transplant list. 
It appears from the medical evidence that when Mr P first claimed, he was not on an official 
transplant list. So, I think Unum were correct to decline the claim at this point, in line with the 
policy term above. Mr P has since said he was on the transplant list from the point of 
diagnosis, and so met the policy definition for organ transplant. But this wouldnt have 
changed the fact the pre-existing condition exclusion wouldve still applied. 
It might have been helpful if Unum had highlighted the pre-existing condition exclusion to 
Mr P when he first made the claim  but I cant agree that Unum misled him at any point into 
thinking a claim would be paid. I should also add that exclusions only become relevant if its 
first established that a claim would otherwise be met as they are exclusions to a claim. If 
theres no claim, because the policy definition hasnt been met, theres no exclusion. 
I must also bear in mind that Mr P shouldve had access to the policy terms and conditions, 
via his employer, and so was aware of the pre-existing and related conditions exclusions that 
applied to any claim he made. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Unum has treated Mr P unfairly when 
declining his claim and has acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
And so, I wont be asking it to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman