DRN-4344400
The complaint
Mr W has complained about his property insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) regarding its 
agreement to pay for his accommodation when his home suffered a fire.
What happened
There was a fire at Mr Ws home in February 2023. He and his wife moved in with his 
parents. UKI had a loss adjuster meet with Mr W. He was told he could have £10 per person 
per day to stay there. Mr Ws parents said they could stay for a while if some re-modelling 
was done. UKI agreed to pay Mr W £1,000 per month for staying with his parents to cover 
cost of work and utilities.
When UKI started paying the £1,000 per month, Mr W asked where his £10 per person per 
day was. He thought UKI would be paying both, and council tax costs too. Mr W told UKI 
hed been having to organise everything. In a final response of 4 April 2023 UKI said there 
hadnt been an agreement to pay both sums. It said a claim like this will always cause some 
inconvenience. Mr W complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator didnt think UKI had agreed to pay both. But she felt UKI had caused Mr W 
some upset which could have been avoided. She thought UKI should pay £200 
compensation. 
UKI agreed. Mr W was unhappy. He said being offered only £1,000 for accommodation was 
far too little, hed been tricked into agreeing it and it had forced him to stay with his parents. 
He said when hed shown the loss adjuster apartments for £1,800 a month he was told they 
were too expensive. Our Investigator asked Mr W for evidence of the apartment details 
being shared with the loss adjuster. None were provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr W did need to be at his home a lot during the first few weeks of the claim. 
Some involvement from a policyholder following a claim like this is often required. But I can 
see that the visits became too difficult for Mr W and he asked UKI to install a key box to 
allow access for contractors. UKI agreed but wasnt able to organise this very quickly so 
Mr W installed one. Im not really sure why this wasnt put in place at the outset. I accept 
Mr W was caused a level of inconvenience which could have been avoided.
Mr W has happy, initially, to stay with his parents. I dont doubt he understood he was going 
to get £10 per person per day and £1,000 per month. But Im not convinced he was tricked 
into believing that by misleading detail provided by the loss adjuster. An insurer will 
sometimes pay £10 per person per day when a policyholder is living in their damaged home, 
or living in accommodation where theyre incurring extra costs  over and above those theyd 
normally incur living in their non-damaged home. Mr W and his wife were living in a home 
with Mr Ws parents. So they werent in their damaged home and they were likely not 
incurring much more in living costs than they would have been normally  but for the fire. 
In the immediate aftermath of the fire, I can understand UKI offering the £10 per person per 
day. But when UKI was told that £1,000 a month would be needed to adapt the parents 
home and cover the extra utility cost, it agreed to pay that. Im satisfied that was instead of 
the £10 per person per day. Also that that was reasonable in the circumstances. Because 
Mr Ws extra cost of living with his parents was £1,000 per month.
That sum was for that specific arrangement. Theres no indication in the file evidence Ive 
seen from UKI that it refused to pay more than that for Mr W to find a like property to move 
into. If a similar property was found then UKI would have needed to cover certain costs, such 
as rent and additional council tax. But from what Ive seen, no acceptable property was 
found. And I note that whilst Mr W says properties he put forward were refused by UKI, he 
hasnt presented any evidence to show that. I bear in mind though that nor has he said when 
such properties were found and refused. It was mid-March when UKI and Mr W started to 
look for alternatives to Mr Ws parents home. And UKIs final response regarding the 
quantum of the original arrangement was issued on 4 April 2023. My assessment only goes 
up to that date.
I think UKI generally tried to move the claim forward in spring 2023. And it came to an 
accommodation arrangement with Mr W which seemed suitable to him at the time. But 
I think it could have managed some of the arrangements for work better so Mr W wasnt so 
inconvenienced. And its file shows it didnt talk with Mr W in the latter part of March 2023 to 
ensure the change in accommodation arrangements was moving on. Im satisfied £200 
compensation is fairly and reasonably due. 
Putting things right
I require UKI to pay Mr W £200 compensation. If this sum, for the upset caused subject to 
this complaint and decision, has been paid already, it wont need to pay it again.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman