DRN-3607265
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy because he says ReAssure Limited mis-sold him a mortgage protection 
policy. Hes also unhappy that he continued to pay premiums after his mortgage was paid off 
and with the service he received from ReAssure. 
What happened
Mr R took out a mortgage protection policy in 1999. In 2018 Mr R was made redundant and 
he paid off his mortgage the following year. In 2020 ReAssure took responsibility for the 
policy and Mr R had ongoing issues accessing the policy documentation. In 2021 he realised 
that he wouldnt have been able to make a claim on the policy as his mortgage had been 
paid off. He was also disappointed to find out that the policy wasnt an income protection 
policy, which is what hed thought hed been paying for. 
Mr R complained to ReAssure. They said that the policy hadnt been mis-sold and that it was 
up to Mr R to get in touch if he wasnt sure what he was paying for. However, they 
acknowledged there had been issues with Mr R accessing his policy documents and paid 
him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Unhappy, Mr R 
complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld part of the complaint. Although 
he didnt think the policy was mis-sold he thought it was fair that ReAssure refunded the 
premiums from the time that Mr Rs mortgage had been paid off. And, he thought it was fair 
to increase the total compensation to £200. 
ReAssure didnt respond to the investigators findings. Mr R asked that the compensation 
was increased to reflect the further worry and frustration caused by the complaints process 
and ReAssures lack of engagement. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mis-sale of the policy 
ReAssure have taken over responsibility for the sale of the policy. So, for ease, Ill refer to 
ReAssure rather than the business who actually sold it. 
ReAssure gave Mr R advice about the policy. That means, in line with the relevant rules and 
industry guidelines, that they had a responsibility to ensure that the policy was right for him 
and to give him clear, fair and non-misleading information. 
During the sales process the advisor completed a financial review. The application form 
indicates it is most likely Mr R said he wanted cover to protect him if he wasnt well enough 
to work. He selected a benefit of £450 per month - that is consistent with the amount he was 
paying towards his mortgage at the relevant time. 
He selected a deferred period of 52 weeks. Bearing in mind that Mr R had told the advisor 
he had six months full pay and six months half pay if he couldnt work, I think the policy was 
most likely suitable for Mr Rs circumstances at the time. 
In any event, Mr R was also sent details of the policy afterwards. The letter encouraged him 
to check the details of the policy and get in touch if he had any queries. Having looked at the 
policy documentation Im satisfied it was sufficiently clear that it was a mortgage protection 
policy not an income protection policy. 
Taking all of the above into account I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
Refund of premiums and customer service
Mr R paid off his mortgage in January 2019, following his redundancy. So, he says he was 
paying for a policy that had no benefit for some time until the policy was cancelled. Thats 
supported by the policy documents which confirm that cover will end when the mortgage 
ends. And, ReAssure hasnt made any further representations about the findings our 
investigator made on this point. 
ReAssure says Mr R didnt tell them hed paid off his mortgage. But, as ReAssure 
acknowledged in their final response, Mr R didnt receive good customer service. It took 
months for him to be able to access his updated policy documents  including numerous 
attempts to contact ReAssure via various methods. ReAssure also didnt dispute our 
investigators findings on this point and I think it must have been a very frustrating 
experience Mr R. It also caused him inconvenience as he had to spend a lot of time trying to 
sort this out. 
Taking all of the above into account think its fair that ReAssure refund the premiums Mr R 
paid from January 2019 until the policy was cancelled, together with 8% simple interest. And 
I think ReAssure should pay Mr R £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Mr R had recently been made redundant and hes explained that he was making 
concerted efforts to reduce his spending and manage his finances. So, this situation added 
to his distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time. 
Ive thought about whether it would be fair to increase the compensation further, but my role 
isnt to punish a business and I think £200 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr R.
Putting things right
ReAssure needs to put things right by: 
Refunding Mr Rs premiums paid from January 2019 until the policy was cancelled
Paying Mr R 8% simple interest per annum on the total premiums refunded from
21 February 2021 to the date of settlement Paying Mr R a further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the poor service he received. This will bring the total compensation to £200.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to put things right in the way Ive 
outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman