DRN-2411037
The complaint
 Miss B complains that Monzo bank Ltd blocked and closed her account. And didnt release 
her closing balance.
What happened
 Miss B had a current account with Monzo. On 17 April 2020, Monzo decided to review Miss 
Bs account. Whilst it conducted the review the bank restricted Miss Bs access to her 
account. 
Monzo completed its review on 21 April 2020 and decided to close Miss Bs account 
immediately. Monzo sent Miss B an email to let her know. At the time the balance of 
Miss Bs account was £5, which Monzo initially told Miss B would be returned to source. 
Monzo accepts this was a mistake. And offered to return the closing balance to Miss B.
Miss B complained to Monzo and asked the bank to provide an explanation for closing her 
account. Monzo said it hadnt done anything wrong and had closed Miss Bs account in line 
with the terms and conditions. Unhappy with this response, Miss B brought her complaint to 
this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Bs complaint. He said Monzo hadnt done 
anything wrong when it had blocked and closed Miss Bs account. He said Monzo had also 
done enough to put things right by offering to return Miss Bs closing balance. Miss B 
disagreed. She said the banks actions had caused her a great deal of trouble and upset as 
she was expecting payments, including her wages into the account. She still wants Monzo to 
explain why it blocked and closed her account. And says Monzo kept money which belonged 
to her for a number of months.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Its clear from what Miss B has told us and the bank that she feels strongly about her 
complaint. I appreciate that shes upset that Monzo blocked her account and that this caused 
her inconvenience. But, having looked at all the evidence Ive reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ill deal first with the bank decision to block and review Miss Bs account. All banks in the UK 
are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business 
relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers accounts. 
Monzo has said that Miss Bs access to her account was blocked to meet these 
requirements. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied first of all that Monzo was 
within its rights to review Miss Bs account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried 
out that review. So, I cant say the bank did anything wrong. The bank also wasnt obliged to 
tell Miss B why it was carrying out a review, and I dont believe it would be appropriate for 
me to require it to do so.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Miss Bs accounts. Its generally for banks to 
decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case, 
Monzo closed Miss Bs account immediately. In my view that was reasonable, given the 
concerns the bank had about how Miss B was operating her account. Ive also noted that 
Miss B had at least one other bank account at the time. So, I think the immediate closure 
would have had a reduced impact on her. So, whilst appreciate this caused Miss B 
inconvenience, I cant say Monzo have treated her unfairly when it decided to close her 
account without notice.
Lastly, Monzo accepts that it incorrectly told Miss B that it would return her closing balance 
to source. I can see that Monzo has now offered to release the money to Miss B, which I 
think is a reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Miss Bs complaint. So, Im not going to 
ask Santander to do anything more. And I will leave it to Miss B to decide whether she now 
wishes to accept that offer.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont require Monzo bank Ltd to do anything more to resolve 
Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman