DRN-3443028
The complaint
Ms C complains that Starling Bank Ltd will not refund the money she lost after trying to buy a 
new phone.
What happened
Ms C saw an advert on a well-known social media website, appearing to showing iPhones 
for sale. She wanted to buy an iPhone 12 Pro Max, which the seller was offering new for 
£320. Ms C thought this a good price and messaged the seller.
She asked the seller if they had any reviews from other people whod received the phones. 
But the seller explained that wasnt possible. 
Ms C arranged to pay through a payment service Ill refer to as P. P offers a buyer protection 
scheme. Ms C explains she thought the phone was being sold by an individual seller, and so 
didnt carry out any further checks before sending this payment.
However, the phone wasnt despatched by the seller as had been agreed. Ms C was told 
that there had been a problem with the payment to the sellers account with P. But she was 
told the money was being returned to her.
When the supposedly returned money didnt arrive, Ms C contacted P directly to ask about 
the refund. P told her no such refund existed.
Ms C contacted the seller again and was told the sellers account had now been charged 
fees and that Ms C needed to pay more to unlock the sellers account. She was told again by 
the seller that shed be refunded. 
Ms C was asked to pay an account in a name that she didnt recognise  it was different to 
the sellers name and different to the name on the account with P. The seller told her to use 
a payment reference of Jokerstash. Ms C told the seller she wouldnt use that because it 
didnt sound right. 
Ms C hadnt previously made any payments to or from her Starling account. Her account 
balance was zero. So before making a payment she transferred the right amount across 
from an account she held with another bank.
Over the course of the next two days Ms C sent six payments totalling £1,980, with the 
largest individual payment being £500. Before each payment was sent, Ms C made a 
transfer into her Starling account for exactly the same amount.
Eventually Ms C told the seller she couldnt make any more payments. She was unhappy the 
seller hadnt refunded anything despite telling her they would. A day after making the last 
payment she reported it as a scam to Starling. 
Starling tried to recover the money from the account Ms C had sent it to. But unfortunately, 
by the time Ms C had contacted Starling, the seller had been able to remove all the money 
from the beneficiary account. Nothing remained to be recovered.
Starling also considered these payments under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code provides additional 
protection when customers fall victim to push payments such as this one. But Starling didnt 
think Ms C had taken enough care to check the seller was legitimate before shed sent the 
payments. Starling said it wasnt going to reimburse her for the money shed lost.
Ms C complained about the banks decision. When Starling said it wasnt willing to change 
its position, she referred her complaint to our service for an impartial review.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. The investigator thought Starling didnt 
need to refund Ms C. She said Ms C hadnt had a reasonable basis for believing the seller 
was legitimate.
Ms C didnt agree. She was the victim of a scam and needed the money back. She said 
shed never asked for a full refund and would accept an offer of half the money shed lost. 
Because of this disagreement Ive been asked to make a final decision on Ms Cs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
As the investigator explained, the starting position at law (in broad terms) is that a firm is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance 
with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. In short, the starting position is that a customer is liable for payments they make.
Nevertheless, where the customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for a bank to reimburse its customer 
even though the customer authorised the payment. 
In particular, when thinking about whats fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered 
whether Starling should have reimbursed Ms C in line with the provisions of the voluntary 
CRM Code, and whether Starling ought to have done more to protect Ms C from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In saying all of this, theres no dispute here that Ms C was cruelly tricked into making these 
payments. Shes clearly explained how she was the victim of an authorised push payment 
scam. However, its simply the case that this isnt enough, in and of itself, for her to receive a 
refund of the money from Starling  either under the CRM Code or otherwise. Ive 
considered whether Starling is liable to refund Ms C because it was somehow at fault in what 
it did or didnt do.
Did Starling need to stop Ms C from making these payments?
Ive firstly considered whether these payments should have stood out to Starling as being 
indicative of a scam risk or other fraud. But I dont think these in themselves should have 
stood out to Starling, in particular:Each payment was preceded by a matching credit from Ms C;
Individually the values were £500 or less; 
The payments took place over a period of two days;
All the payments went to the same destination; and,
There was no prior history on Ms Cs Starling account for the bank to compare this 
usage against, so it couldnt know whether this was or wasnt in line with her normal 
usage. 
All things considered, I dont find Starling at fault for not preventing Ms C from making these 
payments at the time. It had no ground to do so because I dont think it could reasonably 
have identified these payments as being potentially fraudulent. 
Was Starling required to do more to meet its obligations under the CRM Code?
Starling also demonstrates that whenever a new payee is created (as happened when Ms C 
first set up this new payee) the screen includes a general scam warning including 
highlighting that funds may not be recoverable. For similar reasons to those above I dont 
think Starling reasonably should have thought the payments were linked to an APP scam, so 
it wasnt required to give a more specific or impactful warning message to Ms C. Starling did 
enough here to meet its requirements under the CRM Code.
And after Ms C had reported the scam to Starling, the bank acted promptly in trying to 
recover her money from the scammer. Overall, Starling met its obligations.
Did Starling assess Ms Cs claim fairly under the CRM Code?
If Starling doesnt refund a scam victim under the CRM Code it needs to establish that the 
customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one or more of the listed 
exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Here, I need to consider whether Starling has shown that Ms C didnt take enough care to 
check the seller was legitimate or that the payment was for genuine goods or services. 
Starling says Ms C didnt do enough and says it can therefore decline to reimburse her 
under the following exception:
In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of 
the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: (i) the payee was 
the person the Customer was expecting to pay; (ii) the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or (iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate.
There are further exceptions to reimbursement within the CRM Code, but they do not apply 
in this case.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence and what Ms C has said to the investigator and to 
Starling. Having done so, Im satisfied that Starling has been able to establish it can rely on 
this exception. That means it doesnt need to reimburse Ms C for the money she lost to the 
scammer. I realise that isnt the answer Ms C wants. But Ill explain why this is my decision.
Ms C was trying to buy items through a social media site thats not really designed to allow 
the sale of items  it was originally set up as a way of sharing photos and videos. That 
means it is difficult to check whether what someone is posting is trustworthy or not. 
Ms C told Starling she thought this was just an individual seller. She says she didnt carry out 
any checks to ensure the seller was genuine. But I think Ms C did realise there was a risk here. She asked the seller to provide her with reviews from customers whod already 
received their items. But when the seller wouldnt provide any reviews like this, this shouldnt 
have given Ms C any reassurance that the seller was genuine  if anything, I think it should 
reasonably have concerned her.
The screenshots of the advert that Ms C has provided just show some photos of iPhones. 
Theres nothing to show the seller actually had those items rather than just having access to 
photos of them. I dont think the advert should have given Ms C reassurance that what she 
was being promised was true.
There also were some significant warning signs here. The seller claimed to be able to sell 
Ms C a factory new, unlocked, top-end iPhone for less than one third of the usual retail price 
at the time. Discounts on the current models of these phones are usually limited, and so a 
legitimate discount of this size seems very unlikely. Whats more the advert said every order 
would include free wireless earphones, making it even less likely. Based on the chat history, 
Ms C didnt ask the seller how this was possible, and it seems extremely unlikely to me that 
any plausible explanation could have been given.
In short, I think this deal was simply too good to be true. And the information and evidence 
provided by the seller was insubstantial and couldnt be relied on. I dont think Ms C had 
seen enough to have reasonable confidence that the seller would provide the phone as 
promised  or in short that the seller was legitimate or genuine.
Whats more, by the time Ms C made the payments in question from her Starling account, 
shed already asked the seller for a refund of the payment shed made through P, and not 
received it. When she contacted P it told her the transaction was invalid which contradicted 
what the seller had said. Again, I think this reasonably ought to have concerned Ms C that 
she was not dealing with a legitimate seller.
When the seller started asking Ms C to pay more money to unlock their account, which 
prompted Ms C to make the first payment from her Starling account I think she realised 
something wasnt right. She said she wouldnt use the payment reference Jokerstash, and 
the chat history includes comments from her saying she didnt believe what the seller was 
telling her. 
These doubts were entirely justified, and Ms C should have trusted her instincts on this 
rather than sending any money. I dont find that Ms C made these payments with a 
reasonable basis for believing the seller was legitimate - so Starling is entitled to rely on that 
exception to reimbursement.
I understand the point Ms C has made that she didnt know about the level of care she was 
expected to take. But, while I am sympathetic to the loss shes incurred here, essentially the 
level of care required by the code is simply to take reasonable care in the circumstances. As 
detailed above, there were several aspects that should have concerned Ms C (and I think 
she identified this at the time). Given these, I think Ms C simply shouldnt have gone ahead 
in making any payments. Id think that regardless of whether she did or didnt understand 
how her bank might later view a scam claim.
Overall, Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms C. I can understand why she wants to do 
all that she can to try and recover the money she lost through this scam. She sent her 
money in good faith and did not receive anything in return for it. Shes explained how in her 
circumstances money is already tight, and she has been left in a difficult financial position. 
But I cant fairly hold Starling responsible for the actions of a scammer. I can only look at the 
banks position on Ms Cs fraud claim and its assessment under the CRM Code. Im satisfied the bank processed Ms Cs payments correctly in line with her instructions and then did all it 
could to help her once it knew what had happened. Ive found that Starling has established it 
can choose not to refund Ms C under the CRM Code. I cant fairly ask Starling to do more 
than it has done. And I dont think Starling is liable to reimburse Ms C for what was lost to 
the scammer  either under the CRM Code or for any other applicable reason.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint about 
Starling Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman