DRN-2808536
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has declined their home 
insurance claim for storm damage to their home and to their garden wall.
What happened
In September 2020, after particularly bad weather the night before, Mr and Mrs L called
Lloyds because there was damage to their garden wall and a cracked lintel over a window in
the house. Lloyds appointed claims assessors who sent out a surveyor to inspect the
damage. He took photos and then reported back to Lloyds that the damage was due to wear
and tear and a breakdown of materials. Mr and Mrs L didnt hear back from the surveyor but
checked the portal they had been given access to and found the claim had been rejected.
Lloyds explained that the render/pebble dash had come away from the wall. Mortar was
missing from the slabs on top of the wall causing water over a period of time to enter and
crack the render. With regard to the lintel it said this was likely caused by general weathering
over a period of time. A Streetview photo from 2010 appeared to show a similar problem.
Mr and Mrs L objected to the way the inspection was done  the surveyor merely took
photos rather than carry out a full inspection, and they felt he was quite offhand with them.
They believed the damage was caused by torrential rain the night before. They had also had
an experienced builder inspect the damage who had told them he believed it was storm
damage. They were also upset with the way their complaint was handled.
On referral to this service our investigator said that on reviewing the weather records there
was actually no storm as defined by the policy. So the damage was never covered. As
Mr and Mrs L didnt appear to have accidental damage cover the damage also couldnt be
covered under any other provision in the policy. He thought Lloyds should have told Mr and
Mrs L this to save them the difficulties of the inspection. He said that Lloyds should pay £100
compensation. With regard to the way the complaint was handled he explained that
complaints handling by a business isnt a regulated activity so we couldnt consider any
complaint about that.
Mr and Mrs L responded that they did have accidental damage cover. And Lloyds said that
the site inspection was carried out because there was a concern that the damage might be
structural. It said it was justified in sending out the surveyor.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that although I agreed there was no storm, I didnt 
think that Lloyds was wrong to send out a surveyor to inspect. For that reason I didnt award 
any compensation.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. I think to sum up they are dissatisfied with the decision. They think I 
have relied on too narrow a definition of storm in the policy and that their evidence from a 
master builder and the fact that a nearby railway line has had substantial repairs because of 
the storm that night, have been ignored.
Lloyds has no further comment to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
As our investigator advised, when considering claims for storm damage, to decide if the
storm cover applies we ask three questions and it is only if the answer to each of those
questions is yes that we would be likely to uphold the complaint. The questions are:
On the balance of evidence, do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around
the date the damage is said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?
Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
So in respect of the first question it has to be decided whether there was a storm on the
night the damage took place. This has to be, for cover to apply, a single identifiable incident
of storm, and not just general bad weather. The policy says storm is a period of violent
weather defined as strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph. The weather records for the
period in question show peak gusts of wind of 41mph, and rainfall of 20 mm in 24hours with
a peak of 8mm in an hour.
I appreciate that Mr L says the damage was caused by torrential rain rather than wind but I
dont think the weather records show that the rain was sufficient to constitute a storm as
defined by the policy or as recognised by this service. So unfortunately as the answer to the
first question is no storm cover doesnt apply.
However Mr and Mrs L advise us they do have accidental damage cover. This is defined by
the policy as:
An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside force
and is not expected and not deliberate.
Here the damage was assessed as having occurred over a long period, the damage to the
render having been caused by water seeping behind it. The damage to the lintel was also
said to have happened over long period. And I think it fair to say that cracking is likely to take
place over time rather than suddenly. So, I dont think that the damage comes under the
accidental damage peril in the policy.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L have an opinion from their builder. And that they were
disappointed that Lloyds surveyor didnt appear to carry out such a thorough inspection.
However the surveyor would have been looking to see if the damage was covered by the
policy whereas the builder wouldnt necessarily have the policy terms in mind. The surveyor
has provided detailed photos and I think it fair to accept that report over the builders verbal
opinion.
With regard to compensation, I have considered this very carefully. Mr and Mrs L were upset
that the surveyor didnt get back to them. However I do note that they were able to look at
the portal within three days. I accept that it would have been better customer service for
Lloyds to have called them, but I dont think this merited any compensation award. Our
investigator suggested that, as there was no storm, Lloyds should have told Mr and Mrs L
this at the outset and saved them the trouble of the claim being rejected after a site visit. Ithink that a refusal to carry out a site visit wouldnt have been appropriate in this case. Whilst
Lloyds could have rejected the clam because there was no storm, Mr and Mrs L reported
cracking which is always a concern in case there might be structural damage. And there was
the possibility of it being covered as accidental damage. I dont think that Lloyds needs to
pay compensation in this case.
I have noted that Mr and Mrs L were upset by the way that Lloyds representative dealt with
their complaint. This was after the final response letter and they should raise it directly with
Lloyds, but from this services point of view we cant consider complaints about the way a
business dealt with a complaint since this isnt a regulated activity.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L feel there is too narrow a definition of storm in the policy. 
However as the storm peril in an insurance policy covers a single identifiable storm, there 
has to be a way of gauging whether there was a storm. Mr and Mrs L have confirmed that 
theyve been advised that the damage wasnt due to the wind, but to torrential rain. And the 
only independent evidence of the rain we have for that night, and the few days before is 
contained in the local weather records. And these unfortunately dont show evidence of 
torrential rain around the time of the claim. 
In respect of the flooding of the local railway I believe that happened in August 2020. And 
whilst I note Mr and Mrs L had a master builder look at the damage, he hasnt provided a 
report so I dont think its reasonable to rely on his verbal evidence ahead of the detailed 
photos and report drawn up by the surveyor.
So I remain persuaded by my provisional findings. Those findings are now final and form 
part of this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman