DRN-4024732
The complaint
Mr G has made three complaints regarding The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds 
dealing with his Serious Illness Cover policy.
All references to Prudential include its agents.
What happened
The three complaints concern the decline of a claim and cancellation of his Life Cover and 
Serious Illness Cover policies, the handling of a subject access request and the service he 
received. Ill deal with each in turn.
Mr G disputes that he intentionally answered any of the application questions dishonestly 
when applying for the policies. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs G appealed on behalf 
of Mr G. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint and some sensitive medical 
details. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it 
isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the complete file and considered the 
representations Mr G made via his representative after our investigators view. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. 
I recognise that Mr G will be very disappointed my decision and Im sorry it cdoesnt bring 
more welcome news. But for the following reasons I agree with the conclusion reached by 
our investigator:
The claim and cancellation
Prudential assessed Mr Gs claim for Total and Permanent Disability under his Serious 
Illness Cover. It felt that Mr G had answered questions it asked during the application 
process incorrectly. The application was submitted electronically on 3 February 2015. It 
considered this to be a reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to cancel the 
policy.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Prudential thinks that Mr G failed to take reasonable care when answering some questions 
on the application form. He was asked: Have you smoked or used tobacco products in the 
past 12 months? This includes cigarettes, cigars or pipes and any nicotine replacement 
therapy.  Mr G answered no to this question. His medical records note on 6 February 2014 
he was a secret smoker largely due to habit rather than dependence. 
Mr G was also asked: Apart from any condition you have already told us about, have you 
had any of the following in the last 5 years: Raised blood pressure or raised cholesterol, 
chest pain, palpitations or irregular heartbeat.  Mr G disclosed high blood pressure and 
medication for this. Mr G says that he did disclose palpitations and I accept that the question 
is poorly worded  not asking specifically what the positive answer was referring to. It may 
also be, as he suggests, that he told his financial adviser. But this complaint is against 
Prudential. 
Mr G was asked whether, apart from anything hes already told Prudential about, hed had 
anaemia or blood disorders in the last 5 years. He answered no although his medical 
records show hed had liver function testing following an elevated liver function test and tests 
for anaemia following a diagnosis in 2013. I acknowledge Mr Gs comment that he didnt 
know he had anaemia, but I dont find it was unreasonable of Prudential to conclude he 
should have answered positively in respect of the liver function tests.
Additionally Mr G was asked two further questions that would have given him the opportunity 
to disclose the blood tests he was undergoing. He was asked whether within the last two 
years hed had any medical condition, illness or injury that he had received treatment for 
over a continuous period of two weeks or more. He was also asked whether in the last two 
years he had undergone any investigations such as blood test, scan or biopsies. Mr G 
thought the tests for anaemia were for a virus  but again he didnt mention the blood tests 
he had been having in answer to either question.
Prudential has shown by underwriting evidence that had these questions been answered 
yes it wouldnt have offered cover on standard terms. I note that Mr Gs representative was 
given information at the claims stage by claims advisers that she feels are at odds with this. 
But having made further enquiries, and although I cant share the details due to their 
commercial sensitivity, Im satisfied that the underwriting evidence is correct. Accordingly Im 
satisfied that the misrepresentation is qualifying. Prudential has said that the 
misrepresentation was reckless. I have not disregarded the submission on Mr Gs behalf that 
he had not deliberately held back information or answered the questions dishonestly. 
Ive looked at the all the questions Mr G was asked and taken into account the Association 
of British Insurers Code of Practice. Lifestyle questions, which are familiar and easier for 
customers to understand, and Mr Gs ongoing tests in particular. I dont find it was unreasonable for Prudential to conclude that he must have known the information given was 
both incorrect and relevant to the insurer, or that he acted without any care as to whether it 
was relevant or not. In the circumstances I dont find that Prudentials classification as 
reckless was unfair. It follows that Prudential was entitled to cancel all Mr Gs policies and 
retain the premiums  that is in line with the legislation. However I note that premiums were 
returned, which I find was reasonable.
For completeness I note the submissions made about the mood exclusion that Prudential 
says it would have added had the relevant question been answered correctly. This has been 
challenged on behalf of Mr G and a medical report submitted. I dont need to make a finding 
in this regard. This is because the qualifying misrepresentations referred to above alone 
were sufficient for Prudential to show it would only have entered the contract on different 
terms.
Subject access request
Mr G has complained via Mrs G that a subject access request was not responded to within 
the time limit set by the statutory regulations. As our investigator explained it is not for this 
service to determine whether there has been a regulatory breach  that is the role of the 
Information Commissioners Office. I dont find it was unreasonable for Prudential to require 
the request to come from Mr G rather than Mrs G, as it concerned his personal data. Neither 
do I find it was unreasonable for Prudential to answer Mr Gs appeal when it was in a 
position to do so. It wasnt obliged to wait for further submissions. 
Service
Mr G, via Mrs G, complained that Prudential didnt take reasonable care when assessing Mr 
Gs claim. She would like Prudential to be held to account. This service doesnt regulate or 
punish insurers, rather we consider if there has been any error or omissions and look at the 
effect his has had on the consumer. I note that the claim process was slow, but Im satisfied 
that it was necessary to request medical records and make full enquiries. Overall, I dont find 
that the process was delayed unnecessarily, although I do accept that waiting for a response 
would have been distressing for Mr G and his family. It is most unfortunate that Mrs G heard 
an uncourteous response on one occasion when she called, but Im considering the 
complaint by Mr G who is the eligible complainant  rather than Mrs G as his representative.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Prudential had a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont find there 
is evidence to show that these rules or guidelines were breached or that Prudential treated 
Mr G unfair or contrary to his policy terms.
My final decision
For the reasons given my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman