DRN-4290623
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard changed his address and 
marked him as deceased incorrectly.
What happened
Mr S explains in November 2022 he contacted Barclaycard as hed not received a 
replacement credit card after his existing one expired. It transpired Mr S address had been 
updated, so the replacement card which had been sent in September 2022 went to an 
incorrect address. 
In December 2022 Mr S received a letter asking if he was having any issues cashing a 
cheque theyd sent him in September 2022 for £11.98  but when calling Barclaycard they 
told him their records had him down as deceased. This seems to have led to a letter 
addressed to the Executor of Mr S estate being sent out, and a cheque book being sent out 
in Mrs S sole name  both of which caused Mr S wife considerable distress. Because of 
this, Mr S complained and asked for a full explanation of how exactly these things happened.
Barclaycard said they were sorry theyd given Mr S cause to complain and agreed theyd let 
him down. They said theyd been unable to establish the root cause of the issue but believed 
it to have been an administrative error. They said as an extension of their apology, they 
offered him £200 compensation.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with this. In summary he said he needed to understand how this could 
have happened and wanted details of when his address was changed and what instigated 
that change. He was and still is concerned about the security of his account.
Barclaycard said they couldnt provide any more information, so Mr S asked us to look into 
things. 
One of our Investigators did so but found overall Barclaycard had seemingly made an 
administrative error, and their compensation of £200 was fair to resolve this matter.
Mr S disagreed, said this wasnt about the compensation, and he expected to be provided 
with a full explanation about what exactly happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to explain our role isnt to get to the bottom of everything that happened, its to ensure 
a complaint has been resolved in a fair and reasonable way. Our service has no power to, 
for example, interrogate Barclaycards own systems to see what they tell us. That means 
that in the absence of evidence to prove otherwise, generally speaking, we rely on what both 
parties tell us in good faith.
From the information I have, the timeline of changes to Mr S account was:
10 December 2021  Mr S address changed to the incorrect address
13 December 2022  date Mr S was marked as deceased on Barclaycards systems
Barclaycard have told us when providing their file the address was changed manually on 
their systems, but there are no notes to explain what was received or why this was done. 
They also said they tried to locate any phone calls received from Mr S to explain why this 
happened but couldnt find any. So, they simply werent able to explain why the change had 
happened.
Like Mr S, I find this explanation unsatisfactory. I dont disagree with his comments that there 
should be a clearer and more detailed explanation for how his address came to be changed. 
But, as Ive explained above, I dont have the power to interrogate Barclaycards systems. 
That means in the absence of any information to the contrary, Ive nothing to rely on which 
says what Barclaycard have told our service here is wrong. Theyve told us they cant find 
out what happened or why this was done. Nothing Mr S has said makes me think there is 
more to be gained by pushing this  purely on the basis if Barclaycard had the information, 
theyd be required to provide it. 
I also cant ignore that the individual who made the changes had made them a year before 
the issue came to Barclaycards attention. So, if the changes were made in error innocently, 
then I cant see why theyd be able to remember that  as theyll have likely carried out 
thousands of similar actions in the 12 months since this change.
In respect of the deceased marker Barclaycard told us this was changed due to an email 
dated 8 December 2022 and pointed us to their account notes. These account notes show 
an entry on 12 December 2022 which says:
Email received in : support 4 deceased accounts team mailbox
Email date & time : Fri 09/12/2022 15:40
Email from : member of internal staff
Content : informing the death of the customer
Action taken : day 1 action completed
Upon a further challenge to Barclaycard by our Investigator, they told us they had now found 
a copy of a letter dated 29 November 2022. This letter is addressed to the incorrect address 
which was entered in December 2021, and the content of it says the addressee (Mr S) never 
lived here but may have passed away. Mr S has been provided a redacted copy of this letter 
 removing the senders name but leaving the remaining content.
Barclaycard initially said they didnt have this letter, and then later apologised saying theyd 
found it. Mr S believes theyre covering up exactly whats happened and wants a full and 
thorough investigation.
Based on the above information, I think whats happened is a member of staff received the 
letter Ive referred to, and then typed out an email to the support for deceased accounts 
mailbox. This would seem to be a logical course of events. 
Its unfortunate Barclaycard initially told us they couldnt find anything further, and got the 
timeline wrong, as thats increased Mr S suspicions about whats gone on and I can 
understand why. But, equally, I have to look at things impartially. It seems to me if 
Barclaycard were trying to hide things, then it doesnt seem to have been in their interest to 
disclose this letter later which, at face value, contradicts what they initially told our service 
and Mr S when hes spoken to them.I do understand Mr S concerns and I think they are legitimate about whats happened. But, 
for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not going to be able to address all of the points in 
the way hed like.
Instead, all Im left to consider is whether the £200 compensation is sufficient. I do 
understand the distress thats been caused by Barclaycards actions. But Ive seen nothing 
to suggest there was anything fraudulent or deliberate in their errors. So, for those reasons, I 
find the £200 compensation is fair. As I understand it, this amount hasnt yet been paid to 
Mr S.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard have already made an offer to pay £200 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard should pay Mr S £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman