DRN-3521330
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complained that part of their claim was unfairly declined, for damage to 
laminate flooring, under their home insurance policy with Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited (Admiral).
What happened
Mr and Mrs L damaged their hallway flooring. They think its likely the damage occurred 
when they accidentally knocked over some cleaning fluid. Mr and Mrs L left the flooring to 
dry, but it started to de-laminate, so they made a claim on their policy. 
Mr and Mrs Ls laminate flooring was laid across a large proportion of the ground floor. They 
wanted the whole floor replaced under the claim as they said the old flooring was no longer 
available, so a new floor in part wouldnt match.
Admiral appointed a loss adjuster to validate the damage and based on their report, it 
decided to accept part of the claim. Admiral said it would replace the flooring for the 
damaged area, but it said as the floor was separated by door bars it wouldnt cover the 
replacement of the floors in the adjoining rooms as the policy didnt cover that.
Mr and Mrs L didnt think this was fair. They said the term door bars was misleading and 
they said the floor was separated by expansion profiles to meet British Standards. So, they 
thought the floor was continuous and should be replaced. They said the loss adjuster told 
them had the expansion profiles not been fitted, the flooring wouldve been continuous, and 
Admiral wouldve needed to replace all the laminate flooring downstairs.
Mr and Mrs L felt this was unfair. They think they have been penalised by having a floor that 
complies with British Standards.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said as there was a clear division 
in the flooring, she thought Admiral had been reasonable by only replacing the damaged 
area as they had complied with the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr and Mrs L 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral said it settled the claim in line with its terms and conditions, so I have reviewed 
these. The relevant part of the policy it has relied on states:
What isnt covered
Loss of or damage to floor coverings in adjoining rooms or clearly identifiable separate 
areas.
The crux of the claim comes down to whether the flooring is continuous as Mr and Mrs L 
have stated it is or it has clearly identifiable separate areas as Admiral have determined. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L have made a passionate argument as to why they think the 
flooring is continuous in their minds. They bought the flooring to be designed as a 
continuous covering for aesthetic impact. So, they said it was preferable not to have had an 
expansion profile fitted, but this was only done to follow instructions to meet British 
Standards. They were told by their installer the floor would expand causing splitting and 
bulging if they didnt.
However, I think Admiral has been fair in only replacing the damaged area. I think they have 
reasonably shown the floor has clearly identifiable separate areas. I dont think it matters 
whether the divisions are caused by door bars or expansion profiles  the fact is the floor 
isnt wholly continuous; it is visibly divided. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Admiral to pay for the whole laminate flooring 
to be replaced. It has put a fair exclusion in its policy to limit its liability. If it hadnt done this, 
it wouldve needed to charge a higher premium to reflect the higher risk it was taking in 
insuring the property.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman