DRN-2973546
The complaint
Mrs N complained that UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly when it ought to have 
known that she couldnt reasonably afford the loan and she would need to borrow further to 
repay it.
What happened
Mrs N was given a single loan by UK Credit. Mrs N told UK Credit that she would use the 
loan for debt consolidation  in other words, to repay other debt.
The main loan details were as follows:
Date of 
LoanLoan Amount Loan 
Term 
(months)Monthly 
RepaymentTotal amount repayable
January 
2018£3,500 60 £122.10 £7,326
When Mrs N complained to UK Credit it didnt uphold the complaint so Mrs N brought her 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into what happened and he felt that this was 
a complaint we should uphold.
UK Credit disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said Mrs N had taken the loan to 
end the cycle of borrowing she was in by consolidating all outstanding loans and that she 
was adamant she wouldnt be using any more of this type of borrowing. So UK Credit was 
satisfied its loan would put Mrs N in a better financial situation. It also said it didnt consider 
our investigator was able to make a fair assessment without seeing further bank statements 
for Mrs Ns other accounts to understand the transfers she was making between accounts.
 
As the complaint hasnt been settled, it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and I have also taken into consideration regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time. Having done so, I am upholding Mrs Ns complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
UK Credit gathered some information from Mrs N before it agreed the loan. It did electronic 
checks to verify her pay and recorded Mrs Ns monthly income as £1,750. When assessing 
affordability, UK Credit allowed for Mrs Ns monthly payment of £80 for her share of rent. It 
also relied on statistical information and factored into its calculations an amount that 
reflected the typical monthly expenditure someone in Mrs Ns position might reasonably 
expect to pay according to national UK averages worked out by the Office for National 
Statistics  plus an extra £100 to allow for unexpected costs or variation in income. 
After asking Mrs N about information shown on the credit checks it had carried out, UK 
Credit worked out that Mrs N owed around £264 to other creditors each month and that this 
left her with a surplus of around £433 after paying for its loan. So UK Credit concluded that 
the monthly repayment of £122.10 on this loan shouldve been affordable for her and that it 
was fair to lend to her.
I've taken into account what UK Credit has said about how it calculated the 
affordability of this loan before it agreed to lend to Mrs N. But, I dont think UK Credit 
made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mrs N based on the information it had 
gathered because I dont think its checks were proportionate.
I say this because Mrs N had some indications of money problems apparent in the credit 
report UK Credit obtained including an active default (which she could easily have cleared 
using the disposable income UK Credits affordability calculations suggested she had 
available). And she had recently fallen behind on another account. 
I dont think that this information showed that Mrs Ns financial situation was stable as UK 
Credit has suggested.
For someone with Mrs Ns earnings I also think the term and the cost of the loan were 
relatively high  bearing in mind that Mrs N was signing up to repay the loan over the next 
five years, the monthly cost presented a high risk of becoming unaffordable or unsustainable 
over the term of the loan. 
I dont think anything Mrs N said was enough to explain the contradictions between what she 
told UK Credit and what it saw in its credit checks. 
Keeping in mind that UK Credits checks needed to be borrower focused, I think it needed to 
do more to obtain a thorough understanding of Mrs Ns overall financial situation to be 
satisfied she could afford the loan, particularly bearing in mind that UK Credit had mainly 
relied on third party data to establish Mrs Ns income and expenditure.  
I think reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve involved UK Credit obtaining a 
thorough knowledge of Mrs Ns financial circumstances, including evidence. So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
I've looked at bank statements provided by Mrs N which I think provide a useful insight into 
her financial situation at the time. These show she was using an unplanned/unarranged 
overdraft facility, several returned direct debits are apparent and I can see that Mrs N was 
making payments to a couple of debt collection companies as well. 
All of this suggests to me that Mrs Ns use of credit and her spending on debt had got 
beyond her control. This bears out my concern that the disposable income figure UK Credit 
worked on wasnt, in reality, dependable. All the signs were that she couldnt afford the debt 
she was already responsible for paying  so I think UK Credit should have realised that 
Mrs N wouldnt be able to sustainably afford its loan.
I've taken into account that UK Credit understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But UK Credit didnt have control over how Mrs N used the loan as it paid the 
loan balance to her. And it was aware from its own credit checks of her long history of taking 
out expensive credit. So I think UK Credit should have recognised that it couldnt safely 
depend on Mrs N using the loan for the purpose she had declared. Instead, there was a real 
risk that the loan would simply add to her total indebtedness and so she would remain in 
serious financial trouble  regardless of what she told UK Credit. For all these reasons, 
I dont think UK Credit shouldve provided this loan. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about the fact that Mrs N was making 
substantial transfers out of the account and its unclear what happened to that money. But 
this doesnt affect my view overall. I say this because UK Credits own affordability 
calculations show she didnt have disposable income to support these transfers without 
relying on borrowed money and I've seen enough to be satisfied that Mrs N was clearly in 
financial difficulty as a result of problems managing her money  so this makes no 
difference. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that UK Credit should pay any additional redress. Mrs N 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think UK Credit 
acted unfairly towards Mrs N in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
But I dont think UK Credit should have agreed to provide the loan to Mrs N. And as she has 
been further indebted with expensive lending that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im 
satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what UK Credit did wrong. So, I think UK Credit 
needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs N to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid extra for lending that should 
not have been provided to her. In line with this Services approach, Mrs N shouldnt repay 
more than the capital amount she borrowed.
UK Credit should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs N received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mrs N made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mrs N having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then UK Credit should attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs N.
Whilst its fair that Mrs Ns credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So UK Credit should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mrs Ns credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit 
should give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mrs N.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman