DRN-3411489
The complaint
Miss J has complained about the way her insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA), dealt with a 
claim she made on her travel insurance policy. 
All references to AXA include its agents. 
What happened
In January 2020 Miss J travelled abroad to visit members of her family for a few weeks. On 
13 February 2020, a few days before she was due to return to the UK, she was the victim of 
an armed robbery while travelling on a bus. As a result of the robbery she said she had a 
number of personal items taken from her including two mobile phones, a passport and cash.
 
Miss J made a claim to AXA for the stolen items. AXA asked for more information regarding 
the robbery and the items that were stolen, and Miss J provided some further evidence. AXA 
eventually turned the claim down as it said Miss J didnt provide sufficient evidence the 
matter had been reported to the police. It said Miss J provided it with a diary extract page 
rather than a police report. It added that Miss J had misrepresented her claim which is a 
breach of the policy terms and conditions which state that information she provides must be 
accurate. It also said that:
Even though Miss J said she had two mobile phones she only provided a blockage 
report for one.
It did not understand why Miss J still had so much cash left, especially, as the 
robbery happened on day 17 of a 24 day trip. 
The diary extract was not evidence that a crime had been recorded. This also 
meant that the crime was not substantiated and also that the police/authorities did 
not have the opportunity to investigate the incident and attempt to recover the items.
 
Miss J didnt agree with AXAs response and complained. She said she reported the matter 
to the police and was also taken to court to provide a statement under oath (an affidavit). In 
relation to the phones she said one of them was without a contract and did not need to be 
blocked. And she also provided some further explanation in relation to the cash she was 
carrying. 
AXA didnt uphold the complaint and stood by its original decision. Miss J complained to us 
and said she wanted AXA to accept her claim and apologise for the stress it caused her. She 
added that she provided AXA with all the evidence it had asked for and that her claim was 
genuine.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that Miss J had addressed all of AXAs concerns and added that hed found all her 
explanations plausible. He said AXA should pay the claim as per the terms of its policy plus 
8% interest. He also said AXA should pay £100 compensation to Miss J for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her. In terms of the passport replacement fees he said those should 
be limited to the cost of replacing the passport (£250) plus administration fees of £42.
AXA responded to say it was reviewing the matter and that it didnt agree with the outcome. 
It reiterated that it had only received a blockage report for one of the stolen phones. In 
response, our investigator said that he was satisfied with Miss Js explanation that it was not 
necessary to block the second phone as it was not connected to a specific network.
AXA responded to say that it still had concerns about the claim. It said that one of its agents 
had travelled to the country where the incident happened a few years prior to the incident 
and was aware of the correct process for obtaining a police report. Hed said that if someone 
attends the police station with the sole aim of obtaining an extract and a formal entry is not 
made in the crime records, no crime is recorded as this is not deemed to have been reported 
to the police. Our investigator didnt change his view and said that Miss J had provided 
further evidence in support of her claim, which he found credible.
 
There was no further response from AXA so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. Miss J didnt provide any additional comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it for the same reasons as our investigator. 
Before I provide my findings, Id like to say that I was very sorry to hear about Miss J being 
robbed at gunpoint. I hope that she has, as much as is possible, been able to put what must 
have been a terrifying experience behind her.
The policy
Miss J has a travel insurance policy with AXA through her bank account. Her policy provides 
cover for up to £2,500 for theft of baggage and valuables including up to £500 for any one 
article and up to £500 for all valuables. The policys definition of valuables includes mobile 
phones. 
In terms of personal money and travel documents the policy says that AXA will pay its 
policyholder up to £750 (with a maximum of £300 for bank notes, currency notes and coins). 
Personal money and travel documents include bank or currency notes and coins in current 
use, passport, money cards and credit/debit cards held for private purposes. 
It is a term of the policy that a matter should be reported to the local police within 24 hours of 
discovery or as soon as possible after that. The policy also says that a written report of the 
loss, theft or attempted theft of all baggage and valuables as well as personal money and 
travel documents should be obtained.
 
The policy carries a £40 excess for each claim per incident. 
The police report
AXA said Miss J only provided a diary extract rather than an official report from the police 
and that this did not constitute evidence that a crime had been recorded. It added that as 
there was no official report the police did not have the opportunity to investigate the incident 
and recover Miss Js items. AXA added that Miss J had misrepresented her claim which is in 
breach of her policy terms and conditions and stressed the importance of providing accurate 
information. 
Miss J said that she provided what the police had recorded when she went to the police 
station. She added that the police took her to court to give a statement as per their usual 
process and that the matter had been reported within 24 hours. 
Miss J provided a document titled Affidavit of Facts which appears to be from the High 
Court of Justice of the state she was in. The affidavit has Miss Js UK address and shows 
the date of the robbery and the location. It also lists the items stolen as a local passport with 
a British residence permit, two passport receipts, two mobile phones, three bank cards and 
£750 cash. The affidavit says that the matter was reported to the police the morning after the 
robbery which took place the previous evening, and therefore within 24 hours. The affidavit 
also shows what appears to be Miss Js signature, it has two stamps from the judiciary and 
is signed by a commissioner for oaths who witnessed the signature. Miss J has also 
provided an extract from a police crime diary which lists the items above and some 
additional items one of which is the handset Miss J said belonged to her sister who was with 
her at the time of the robbery. 
The policy says You must report to the local Police within 24 hours of discovery or as soon 
as possible after that and obtain a written report of the loss, theft or attempted theft... The 
policy doesnt define what a written report is and in the absence of a formal definition I think 
the documents Miss J has provided give sufficient evidence of the matter being reported to 
the police, as required under the policy. I therefore, dont think that Miss J breached this term 
of her policy. In my view AXA acted contrary to the terms of the policy in rejecting her claim 
for this reason. 
AXA said that the affidavit provided often with these extracts is based on information 
provided by the claimant and that the High Court do not carry out any action and so these 
diary extracts are not deemed to be police reports. AXA also said that no crime was 
reported, according to information gathered by one of its agents as to the police process in 
the country Miss J was in. I do not find information gathered years prior to the incident 
particularly persuasive. And as I said above, the policy requires Miss J to report the matter to 
the police, which she has done. I dont expect Miss J to be familiar with police processes.
Miss J claimed for two mobile phones, one purchased for £200 in 2012 and estimated to be 
worth £100, and a second purchased for £750 in 2019. She also claimed for a stolen 
passport with a replacement cost of £521 and £750 in cash. I will look at each claim 
individually. 
The cash
Miss J claimed for £750 in cash and said that she travelled with £1,050 originally. She said 
this included £500 she had withdrawn from her account and £250 that was given to her as a 
Christmas present by family. Miss J added that she also had 235,000 of the local currency 
which AXAs form didnt allow her to declare. She also said that the remaining money was 
from transfers she received to order fabric for a community group that she works with. She 
said the other members of the group paid her for the materials and bought some additional 
items from her. 
AXA queried why Miss J had such a large amount of cash on her, particularly as she was 
coming to the end of her holiday (day 17 of 24). Miss J said her husband sent her an 
additional £700 whilst she was away. She said this was due to healthcare issues that she 
had to deal with for her family. She said this was an unexpected expense. Miss J added that 
the day after the incident her husband wired roughly £1,015 to her via her brother which 
would support the fact that she needed more cash as what she had had been stolen. She 
said her husband wired the money to her brother rather than her because her local passport 
had been stolen and could not withdraw the money without identification. Miss J provided a bank statement showing a cash withdrawal for £500 on 25 January 2020 
as well as her husbands bank statement showing a cash withdrawal of £250 on 
19 December 2019. She also provided an invoice showing the purchase of 15 items for 
around £570 in May 2019 which I presume were the fabrics. And a screenshot of a mobile 
banking application showing various payments into her account  between May 2019 to 
March 2020  by various payees, presumably the community members. She also evidenced 
the transfer of £1,015.90 from her husband to her brother the day after the robbery. And 
AXA acknowledged that she provided evidence of a £700 transfer to her on 8 February 
2020. 
Overall, I think Miss J has provided enough evidence to show the source of the cash she 
was carrying on the day of the robbery. And I think it is more likely than not that she was 
carrying £750 on her on the day of the robbery. I say this not only because of the evidence 
above but also because this amount also appears in the police documents she has provided. 
The mobile phones
Miss J claimed for two mobile phones. She said one was on a contract which is in her 
husbands name and which she uses and pays for. She said this would be evident by looking 
at her bank transfers. She also said that she had inserted a local sim card in the older phone 
and was using it whilst abroad and that she intended to leave it behind for family so they can 
communicate more easily via internet calls rather than normal more expensive calls. 
AXA asked for a blockage report for the phones and Miss J provided one for her newer 
phone. She said that as her older phone was not on a contract, she didnt get it blacklisted. 
She said she was able to provide AXA with its serial number as well as with the serial 
number for her newer phone as she still had their boxes. AXA said that the older phone 
could have been blocked by logging it onto the cloud. Miss J said the particular phone was 
not linked to a cloud account. 
Miss J also said she still paid for the newer phone as it was on a two-year contract with a 
network provider. She added that the contract for the older phone had expired some time 
ago and so she could not block a phone which was not under contract. 
In support of her claim, Miss J provided a mobile phone bill in her husbands name which 
shows that a monthly payment of £52.56 was made around July 2020. She also provided an 
invoice from 22 February 2020 showing the purchase of a new phone for £629, which she 
said was her replacement phone. She also provided a letter from her network provider 
showing that her newer phone had been blacklisted on 14 February.
Overall, I find the evidence Miss J provided persuasive and taking into account the police 
documents I think she has done enough to show she has a valid claim for the loss of her 
mobile phones.
 
The passport
Miss J said the replacement costs for her passport were £521. AXA queried this and said it 
looked online and the cost was about £250. Miss J said that she would have to send a £250 
postal order to the relevant High Commission. She would also have to pay a booklet fee of 
£42 and she would also need to apply for separate Leave to Remain associated with that 
passport as it is not a UK one; at a cost of £229. Miss J provided the relevant links which 
show the amounts claimed. From what I have seen, AXAs quote did not include the Leave 
to Remain fee. 
Our investigator thought AXA should compensate Miss J for the cost of replacing the 
passport and the administrative fee but not for the cost of obtaining a permanent Leave to Remain. The policy definition for travel documents includes passport but not any 
additional visa or leave to remain costs. I therefore agree with our investigator that AXA 
should pay the cost of the replacement passport and the administrative fee. 
Other items
AXA had also queried other items such as a handset and a set of keys. Miss J said the 
handset belonged to her sister who was with her at the time and also that she had a spare 
key and did not need a replacement. She added that some of her bankcards had been 
stolen and that she reported them to her bank. She said she mistakenly believed another 
card had been stolen and this is why it appeared in the statement she gave to the police. 
Miss J also said that as her insurance is linked to her bank account, she thought that AXA 
would have been aware that her bank cards had been reported stolen. She also provided a 
copy of her replacement card issued in February 2020. 
As Miss J is not claiming for any additional items I will not consider these further other than 
to say that, like our investigator, I find Miss Js explanations persuasive. And I think the 
additional evidence she has been able to supply in support of her version of events goes to 
her overall credibility. 
I agree with our investigator that AXA caused Miss J distress and inconvenience at an 
already stressful time by rejecting her claim unfairly despite her providing evidence which I 
thought was sufficient to prove she had a valid claim. I think AXA should pay Miss J £100 
compensation for this. I note Miss J wanted AXA to apologise but I dont think a forced 
apology would have any meaning so I will not direct AXA to issue one.
Putting things right
For the reasons above, I am upholding Miss Js complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc 
and require it to pay Miss J the cost of her claim in line with the terms of the policy including 
any applicable limits and excesses. In terms of the passport replacement costs these should 
be limited to the replacement cost and associated booklet fees (£250 + £42). AXA Insurance 
UK Plc must also pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date the claim was 
made to the date it makes payment. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must also pay Miss J £100 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her. 
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Js complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc and I direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman