DRN-4499097
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the advice given by Quilter Financial Services Ltd to transfer the 
benefits from her two defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes to a personal 
pension and take out a fixed term annuity. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 28 November 2023, this included the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings. This forms part of this decision and is set out below:
Mrs B approached Quilter in mid-2018 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. Mrs B was aged 
61 and considering retirement as her licence to carry out her job was expiring at the end of the year. 
Mrs B has since said this could be renewed easily enough if she needed to.
Quilter completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Bs circumstances and objectives on 11 
September 2018. Quilter also carried out an assessment of Mrs Bs attitude to risk, which it deemed to 
be risk averse. The fact-find recorded that:
She was 61 years old, in good health, married but with no financial dependents.
Employed part time, earning £10,200 gross a year or £850 a
month net as a nil rate taxpayer.
Other household income included her husbands £650 a month pension income, this
would reduce to £2,400 a year at his state pension age
Monthly expenditure was £1,450, there was no surplus income.
In total she and her husband had £88,000 in cash-based savings, to which the couple 
contributed £200 a month.
They owned their home unencumbered by a mortgage. 
Mrs B held a current NHS pension and two deferred defined benefit pensions;
The NHS pension was currently estimated to pay around £800 a year from age 66.
Her state retirement age was 66, her projected state pension £8,525 a year  her husband 
was also due to receive the same in the next few years. 
Mrs Bs risk profile was risk averse
She wished to stop working in December 2018 when her registration expired.
The couple wanted to keep their savings, as they would potentially be required for elderly 
parents care costs and to fund holidays. 
A few days later on 13 September unfortunately Mrs Bs daughter was taken seriously unwell and 
hospitalised. Mrs B has told us she was in hospital for a number of months and Mrs B visited daily as 
well as looking after her grandchildren. It was that at this point that Mrs B knew she wouldnt be able 
to return to work  due to the severity of her daughters ill health.
On 18 September 2018 Mrs B informed Quilter she wanted to go ahead with her pension review.
On 2 October, referring to the meeting on 11 September in the recommendation, Quilter advised Mrs 
B to transfer her pension benefits into a personal pension and take-out a fixed annuity for five years. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that it would allow Mrs B to take 
early retirement. The fixed annuity would cover the loss of Mrs Bs income until her state pension 
kicked in. The annuity was due to pay her £10,200 which was protected for five years and at the end 
she would receive a maturity value of £7,525.
The suitability report didnt reference Mrs Bs change in circumstances between the fact-find being 
completed and the report being issued. Mrs Bs told us she did tell Quilter about the situation with her 
daughter.
Mrs B complained in 2022 to Quilter about the suitability of the transfer advice. Shes told us that she 
was contacted by a Claims Management Company who said she couldve had a lump sum for a 
years salary and ongoing income and that shed lost out on thousands. She explained they had only 
just bought her husband's parent's bungalow at a reduced rate. And if anything happened to them in 
the next seven years, such as needing to go into care the asset could have been considered as part 
of their financial assessment. So they were deliberately holding funds back.
Quilter didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. It said it had reviewed its advice and found it to be suitable, it 
met Mrs Bs requirements whereas other options such as taking her benefits from the scheme did not.
Mrs B referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
said that she thought Mrs B would be worse off in retirement due to the advice. And Quilter hadnt 
done enough to explore whether Mrs B was prepared to give up income in later retirement for the 
ability to have her short term income needs met by her pension. The investigator said Quilter 
shouldve done more to explore Mrs Bs circumstances, such as the need or want to keep savings in 
place for potential future care costs. The investigator felt that Mrs B couldve used her savings in the 
mean-time and if these costs arose, she could then look to use the transfer values from the two DB 
schemes to fund this at the time. And in this way her DB benefits would be preserved.
Quilter said in response that it disagreed with the investigators findings, it still felt the advice it had 
given was suitable. It also said the investigators suggested course of action was not without risk 
either. Transfer values can and have reduced in value since the advice was given and so waiting 
longer to access the benefits couldve reduced the value received from them.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
Before I continue to discuss the merits of the complaint, Id like to express my sympathies to Mrs B 
regarding the passing of her daughter.My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes 
the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time of the 
advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests 
of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension 
transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Im minded to reach a different conclusion 
to that of our investigator. After considering Mrs Bs circumstances and the advice given by Quilter, 
Im not persuaded that it was unsuitable. It met the requirements Mrs B had at the time, and whilst 
Mrs Bs savings couldve been used instead. I think there were potential disadvantages with this 
route. And I think the evidence is persuasive that Mrs B and her husband had a strong preference for 
retaining their savings and for compelling reasons.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Quilter should have only 
considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Bs best interests. 
And having looked at all the evidence available, Im satisfied it was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
Mrs B was looking to retire immediately. And as shes said herself as circumstances transpired, she 
knew she wouldnt be returning to work. So, the viability of the transfer isnt particularly relevant here. 
Quilter set out that Mrs B would be worse off in terms of the overall value of benefits likely received in 
retirement by transferring and taking her benefits immediately compared to retaining them until 65. 
And that Mrs B was giving up a guaranteed income for life, for a higher income but only for a short 
period of five years. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the requirement for early retirement was Mrs Bs key priority. And that the 
income required by Mrs B in the short term to allow her to retire immediately couldnt be met by her 
two DB pensions. So the key question is the way in which this could be achieved and was the method 
recommended by Quilter suitable? Ive considered this in more detail below.
Flexibility of income and the need to take early retirementBased on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Mrs B required flexibility in retirement. Mrs B wanted to 
retire early, at 61, and the income/expenditure recorded showed there was little excess income. And 
therefore, they would need to replace the income that Mrs B would lose by retiring.
Mrs B needed to replace the approximate £10,000 per year in income until her and her husbands 
state pension kicked in, according to the information gathered by Quilter. The two state pensions and 
other small pensions held by Mr B and Mrs B would meet their expenditure once they became 
payable in approximately five years. But until then there was a big shortfall in income compared to 
expected expenditure.
From the two DB schemes, if Mrs B took benefits immediately at age 61, she would be entitled to an 
annual income of approximately £2,000 escalating and a tax-free cash sum around £8,000  this 
would not have met their income needs in retirement as noted in the fact-find.  Her first year with no 
income would be covered in full but in the remaining years the household wouldve been short of 
approximately £8,000 a year for four years. So, I think Mrs B had a strong need for variable income in 
retirement. Taking benefits immediately from the DB scheme was not a viable option on its own to 
meet the shortfall. 
The other option on transfer, wouldve been to take the 25% tax free sum and the remainder as a 
lifetime annuity. The tax-free cash sum wouldve likely been around £14,000 which wouldve met a 
year and a halfs worth of income approximately. But the annuity alongside it wouldve been much 
smaller than the fixed term annuity, and wouldnt have provided enough income to meet expenditure 
for the period between the advice and other benefits kicking in. 
Had Mrs B taken either of these options compared to the fixed annuity, she wouldve been provided 
with additional income in retirement to enjoy after her and her husbands state pension had kicked in. 
But it would leave them quite considerably short in the five or so years before this. And I think its 
important to state that even if the benefits were taken at the normal retirement age the value of the 
benefits were relatively small and so I dont think they wouldve made a big difference to the quality-of-
life Mr and Mrs B enjoyed in retirement. 
The fixed annuity meant that Mrs B received a considerably larger sum of money comparatively 
across the first five years of her retirement compared to the option of taking benefits from the scheme. 
The annuity provided approximately £10,000 a year for five years and about £7,000 as a maturity 
value at the end that could be taken as a lump sum, annuitized or re-invested.
So the rationale for the advice was that Mrs B would receive the value of her DB benefits upfront 
across the five years to cover a large shortfall and then other sources of income would meet the 
expected expenditure after that point. The alternative was to instead have the income at a much lower 
starting value but drip-fed across the years in retirement and to plug the gap with savings. If Mrs B 
lived to a reasonable age the income drip-fed approach wouldve caught up to the value of the upfront 
fixed annuity and then as she got older the deficit would increase. This was a risk involved with the 
advice approach but I can see that Quilter did explain this to Mrs B.
However, using savings to plug the income gap couldve kept Mrs Bs guaranteed income in place 
giving a larger potential value from the plans. 
Ive thought about this carefully and I dont think the advice was unsuitable despite the potential to use 
Mr and Mrs Bs savings. I say this because Mr and Mrs B told the adviser they wished to keep their 
savings and gave what I feel is quite a compelling reason to do so. Mr and Mrs B had purchased Mr 
Bs parents house at a preferential rate. And they were informed and aware that if Mr Bs parents 
needed residential care they may need to fund the cost of care from their savings. Furthermore, there 
is the possibility that inheritance tax charges could also apply in the future.
There is an argument more couldve been done/recorded about the potential pitfalls of the 
arrangement regarding the house and the likelihood of future costs/tax implications. But not long after 
the initial fact-find Mrs B told us her daughter was hospitalised (and sadly later passed away). She 
said at that point shed told Quilter about this and thats why she wanted to go ahead with the transfer 
review. And shes said she wasnt in a position to think about it further and wanted Quilter to sort things out for her as she now needed to stop working to look after her daughter. Quilter ought to have 
recognised this change of circumstances in the recommendation as it was a very important aspect to 
the advice process, but it did not. However, I dont think this wouldve made a material difference to 
events had it done so. And I think further in-depth conversations about Mrs Bs circumstances 
probably wouldnt have been desired by Mrs B at the time.
To take early retirement from the scheme or tax-free cash and a lifetime annuity, wouldve meant a 
substantial amount of the income gap wouldve needed to be met from savings. Somewhere in the 
region of £35,000 wouldve been required. Whilst Mr and Mrs B had access to this and wouldve still 
had significant savings left, I think due to the situation with the house purchase and the fact Mr and 
Mrs B diligently saved even though income versus expenditure was tight, Mr and Mrs B placed quite a 
significant value on having substantial savings available in retirement. 
Our investigator spoke to Mrs B and asked what she would do if she hadnt had access to enough 
income in retirement from her pensions and she said their only option wouldve been their savings, 
but this appeared to be a reluctant option. And the option recommended by Quilter allowed them to 
keep the savings intact which I think wouldve given them peace of mind whilst also having their 
income needs met in retirement. Had Quilter done all that they could to investigate the position with 
the house and discussed using their savings instead  I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve still favoured 
keeping their savings by having their income needs met in the short-term by the fixed annuity.
It appears Mrs Bs reason for the complaint was she was told a better option existed. Believing a lump 
sum and income from the schemes wouldve met her needs in the years before her state pension  
and she wouldve still had income in place afterwards. However, this isnt the case  this solution 
wouldve meant a shortfall in income in the early years that wouldve required significant use of their 
savings.
Overall, I think the recommendation made by Quilter met Mrs Bs needs and requirements, so I dont 
think it acted unfairly or unreasonably. And I think the alternative option of using a combination of 
savings and a smaller lifetime income, likely wouldnt have been the preferred option for Mr and Mrs B 
in the circumstances.
In response to the provisional decision Mrs B said:
There is plenty of evidence presented by the Ombudsman's report which clearly state that 
Quilter did not act in accordance with the best interest of its client. As the Ombudsman 
openly admits:
"Quilter ought to have recognised this change of circumstances in the recommendation as it 
was a very important aspect to the advice process, but it did not. However, I dont think this 
wouldve made a material difference to events had it done so."
Our change in circumstances was a very important aspect to the advice process. The 
assertion that "I don't think this would've made a material difference to events" has 
absolutely no founding, and the whole point is that Quilter should have reassessed my 
needs at this point but failed to do so.
I find the Ombudsman's statement that "where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances" inconsistent with the content of the report, and little more than 
another way of saying "there's good evidence to uphold the complaint, but I'm going to make 
lots of assumptions that make the opposite argument."
I don't have any further evidence to offer at this stage, but would like to place on record how 
inconsistent and fundamentally flawed I find the Ombudsman's report; particularly when it is 
at odds with the conclusions previously reached by the Investigator.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision and which form part of this decision.
I understand it mustve been upsetting for Mrs B to initially have her complaint upheld, only 
for me to disagree with that outcome. But Im afraid that is sometimes a consequence of our 
two-stage process. 
Mrs B has said my provisional decision is contradictory as Ive agreed Quilter didnt act in the 
best interests of its client (her) but not upheld the complaint. However, I think this is a 
misunderstanding of the point she refers to above.
Mrs Bs circumstances when she came to seek advice were that she was considering retiring 
early due to the expiry of her licence needed for her career. But by the time Quilter issued its 
recommendation her circumstances had changed. She now had, as shes told us, a need to 
retire early due to the serious ill health of her daughter. Quilters recommendation didnt set 
out that Mrs Bs contemplation of early retirement had changed to a need. There was now a 
far more pressing reason. But its recommendation was based on allowing Mrs B to retire 
early in any event. Whilst it didnt record the far more compelling reason to provide the 
solution it did, its recommendation met Mrs Bs needs in terms of having to retire early 
regardless.
Had it reassessed Mrs Bs needs, the need for early retirement wouldve been even 
stronger. And so I think its recommendation was suitable for Mrs B (for all the reasons set 
out in my provisional decision). Mrs B states she told Quilter about her change of 
circumstances and it was aware as it had responded empathetically. So, I am satisfied it was 
aware of this change but it seems either its recommendation was already written at that point 
and it didnt amend it. Or that it simply didnt reflect this in its recommendation and stayed 
with the reasons gathered at the fact find either due to an oversight or inaction. But as its 
recommendation met Mrs Bs needs to retire early, it follows that this made no impact on the 
outcome of its advice or Mrs Bs decision to follow the recommendation.
Ive reconsidered my findings in light of Mrs Bs comments, but I dont agree that they are 
flawed or inconsistent. Its simply that I disagree with the recommendation made by our 
investigator. And I set out my reasons for this in my provisional decision.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mrs B. But for the reasons explained I dont 
think Quilter has acted unfairly or unreasonably when it recommended Mrs B transfer her DB 
pension and take out a fixed annuity to meet her income needs in the short term.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman