DRN-1065758
 
The complaint
 Ms A says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny) irresponsibly lent 
to her. She says she couldnt afford the borrowing and had to take out further borrowing from 
Sunny, and other short-term credit providers to keep up with the repayments. 
What happened
This complaint is about 11 short-term loans Sunny provided to Ms A between March 2017 
and June 2018. Ms As borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 18/03/2017 26/05/2017 Instalment £200.00
2 15/05/2017 26/05/2017 Instalment   £50.00
3 03/06/2017 22/11/2017 Instalment £200.00
4 06/08/2017 22/11/2017 Instalment £100.00
5 29/08/2017 25/09/2017 Instalment   £50.00
6 15/10/2017 22/11/2017 Instalment £100.00
7 02/11/2017 22/11/2017 Instalment £150.00
8 22/11/2017 16/06/2018 Instalment £300.00
9 19/05/2018 06/06/2019 Instalment £150.00
10 07/06/2018 16/06/2018 Instalment £100.00
11 16/06/2018 06/06/2019 Instalment £150.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms As complaint and thought the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been given. Ms As borrowing behaviour suggested she was 
struggling with her finances and then became persistently reliant upon short-term lending. 
Sunny disagreed but it did offer to uphold the complaint about loan nine onwards. But it had 
already written off the outstanding balance on Ms As borrowing and so she didnt repay 
more than was borrowed. We explained the offer to Ms A but she didnt want to accept it.As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Ms A could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ms A didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to four shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I 
wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Ms A had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms As complaint. After doing so Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
I think when Ms A applied for loan five there was a sufficient enough suggestion from her 
borrowing behaviour that she was having problems managing her money. Loans three and 
four were still running at this point so by further borrowing Ms As monthly repayments would 
be increasing. And I notice that Ms A had repaid loans one and two on the same day  26 
May 2017  only to return for more borrowing a week later. Given the nature of these type of 
loans, I would question why someone would repay one loan (or two in this case) only to 
quickly come back and borrow more. 
I also note that Ms A repaid loans one and two well before end of the six-month terms that 
were agreed when the lending was taken. While I appreciate this would have saved Ms A 
interest charges, it can equally be a sign that someone is juggling their finances to make 
ends meet. And I would suggest this was likely in Ms As case as she had quickly re-
borrowed after the early repayment. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms A, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms As case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Ms A was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Ms A had taken out six loans within seven months. So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Ms A was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Ms As 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ms A continued to be provided with a new loan within days of settling a previous one. 
As an example, I note that loans six and seven were repaid the same day loan eight 
was taken  and it was the largest loan taken so far. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable to assume that some of that re-borrowing was being used to repay 
earlier lending. 
Ms A wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan 11 was 
taken out 15 months after Ms As first. And it was for a larger amount. Ms A had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended 
period.
 
I think that Ms A lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms As indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms A borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms As ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans five to 11 and Sunny should put things 
right.Putting things right
I understand Sunny has written off the outstanding balance due on Ms As borrowing, but it 
should make further recalculations to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms A towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms A which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms A originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made by Ms A as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Ms A having made overpayments then Sunny should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms A. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms A. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms As credit file in relation to loan five. 
The number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So, all entries about loans six to 11 should be removed from Ms As credit 
file. Sunny does not have to remove any outstanding loans from Ms As credit file until these 
have been repaid, but any adverse information recorded about these loans should still be 
removed.                                                                                                                            
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms As complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman