DRN-3551084
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Barclays Bank UK PLCs handling of his self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP).
What happened
In January 2011 Barclays advised Mr S to transfer funds from an existing SIPP into another 
fund which is provided and administered by a company Ill call S. Barclays is Mr S financial 
adviser and, in the terms described in the SIPP, act as discretionary investment managers 
for him. That means it makes day-to-day investment decisions for him, under an agreement 
directly between Barclays and Mr S. The fund that Mr Ss SIPP is invested in is managed by 
a subsidiary of Barclays which Ill refer to as G. In the SIPPs terms G is known as an 
external fund manager as it manages the fund on behalf of S. 
Mr S generally takes regular drawdown payments from the SIPP on a quarterly basis. But, if 
he wanted to change that arrangement or take some other action on the SIPP he would 
contact Barclays who would organise that for him. 
On 19 March 2020 Mr S contacted Barclays as he wanted it to stop a planned drawdown 
from the SIPP scheduled for April. On 25 March 2020 Barclays left Mr S a voicemail 
message. It told him that it was struggling to contact S and said he may want to contact it 
himself. Owing to an issue with his phone Mr S didnt receive that voicemail message. He 
didnt contact S himself. Barclays did send S an email with Mr Ss instructions but S didnt 
receive it until it was too late to stop the drawdown going ahead. 
Mr S complained to Barclays. He thought he might have been financially disadvantaged 
because the drawdown went ahead at a time when the market was depressed, so any 
assets sold to fund the drawdown would have lost value. Barclays said it had tried to contact 
Mr S on 25 March 2020 because it was struggling to contact S and had left a message to 
advise him to contact S himself. It said its process was for clients to contact the SIPP 
provider  in this case S  themselves directly. It said it didnt believe it had caused Mr S any 
financial loss but agreed that it should have contacted him sooner. To address the impact of 
its shortfall in service it offered Mr S £100 compensation.
In July 2020 Mr S told Barclays he hadn't received a scheduled drawdown payment. It 
transpired that S had cancelled the July 2020 drawdown because it had misunderstood 
Barclays message asking it to stop the April 2020 drawdown and cancelled the July 
drawdown instead. Barclays told him that he should contact S himself about drawdown 
arrangements. 
Mr S complained again in August 2020. In its reply Barclays said Mr S hadnt been 
financially disadvantaged when the April drawdown had gone ahead against his wishes. It 
said that was because the drawdown was funded by assets sold before Mr S had asked for it 
to be cancelled. It acknowledged that its instruction to cancel the April drawdown to S hadnt 
been clear that it was only that drawdown which should be cancelled. As a result S had 
mistakenly cancelled the next planned drawdown in July 2020. Barclays again offered Mr S 
£100 compensation for impact of its mistakes. It also said it would consider reimbursing Mr S 
for any overdraft charges he incurred because of the unpaid drawdown in July 2020..
Barclays also said that  while it had recommended S as the SIPP provider  Barclays 
wasnt responsible for S actions. And responsibility for administering the SIPP rested with S. 
It said that Mr S should approach S directly about SIPP arrangements. It said that routing his 
requests through Barclays had the potential to increase the time taken to action such a 
request as it added a layer of administration. It added that it had made Mr S aware of the 
appropriate arrangement  for Mr S to contact S directly  following a previous complaint in 
2017.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into it. She felt that Barclays should increase its compensation for the impact of its 
acknowledged mistakes to £250. But, otherwise, she felt its explanations concerning the 
process for handling the SIPP were reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators conclusions for largely the same reasons. 
Since bringing his original complaint Mr S has also raised other concerns about the 
administration and management of his SIPP by both Barclays and S. But Mr S has told us 
that hes satisfied with the explanations hes received and that he doesn't wish to pursue 
those complaints separately. So I dont intend to address any issues Mr S has raised after 
Barclays provided its second complaint response in August 2020 in this decision.
Mr S has been investing in and taking funds from his SIPP since 2011. He told us that 
Barclays recommended S scheme, which he has referred to as being a Barclays scheme. 
And its apparent that, over the years, Mr S has dealt directly with Barclays when accessing 
funds from his SIPP. He added that Barclays is the SIPPs fund manager. So he said that, if 
as Barclays had suggested, he needed to contact S in the first instance to arrange a 
drawdown, then S would have to contact Barclays so it could sell (disinvest) assets in order 
for him to have liquidity for that drawdown. For the same reasons he doesnt believe that 
contacting Barclays in the first instance would add an additional layer of administration. 
Thats because as far as he is concerned it would be for Barclays to ensure his SIPP 
account had the liquidity with which to make such a drawdown. So he thinks it makes more 
sense for him to contact Barclays in the first instance. He believes that, in advising him to 
contact S first, Barclays was trying to shift the contractual relationship between the parties. 
In contrast Barclays said that while it recommended S SIPP to Mr S it isnt responsible for 
the administration of the SIPP; S is. Barclays said that when Mr S wishes to drawdown from 
the fund he should approach S; S will then see if Mr S SIPP account has enough cash 
available for drawdown. If there is then S will make payment to Mr S. But, if the account 
doesnt hold enough cash then S will ask G to sell (disinvest) some of Mr S assets to fund 
the drawdown. Barclays said that while it will pass Mr S requests concerning drawdown to 
S, its far quicker for Mr S to approach S directly as that misses out a layer of administration. 
Mr S says he has no contract with S. And that previously, apart from one episode in 2017 
when Barclays told him it may be better to approach S directly, he has always dealt with Barclays about management of the SIPP. He said he only has a contractual relationship with 
Barclays. He added that S has confirmed that Barclays, as his financial adviser, can act for 
him to facilitate drawdown and disinvestment requests. 
Ive noted that Mr S has referred to his SIPP as being a Barclays scheme. Mr S has also 
shown us an email from S in which it referred to having previously been in partnership with 
Barclays. But I dont think that means Barclays has any responsibility for the SIPP itself. 
Barclays, via S, has provided us with a copy of the application form Mr S completed and 
signed  no doubt with Barclays assistance  in January 2011. The form says on the first 
page:
By filling in this form you are applying to enter into a contract with [S]. This application will 
be the basis of the contract if we accept your application. 
So, in completing the application form, as he did, Mr S was applying to enter into a contract 
with S. And S accepted his application to become a member of its scheme. So I'm satisfied 
that Mr S did enter into a contract with S when it accepted his application to be a member of 
the SIPP. So its not the case, as Mr S believes, that he only had a contractual relationship 
with Barclays.
Its notable that neither the SIPP application form nor its terms and conditions booklet at the 
time Mr S took it out, refer to the scheme as being a Barclays scheme, even if that is what it 
might have been referred to as at the time. Instead both the scheme application form and 
terms and conditions are clearly branded in S name. The terms and conditions also say the 
scheme is both provided and administered by S. So I'm satisfied that, while Barclays sold 
the scheme to Mr S, Barclays isn't the SIPP provider and isn't responsible for S 
administration of it. 
Further Mr S has said that he doesn't pay a fee to S, instead he pays Barclays directly for its 
services. But Mr S is mistaken. His SIPPs schemes terms and conditions set out the fees 
payable to S. It explains that its fees are deducted directly from his invested funds. So he 
does pay fees to S but, as those are deducted at source, he wont have to physically make a 
payment to it. He does also pay a fee to Barclays for its services. But I understand that fee 
relates to investment advice and management and not for providing or administering the 
SIPP.
As Mr S has appointed Barclays to act as his investment manager for the scheme then its 
rules allow Barclays to make drawdown and other requests for him. But, where it does so, it 
must put that request directly to S. S then decides if there are enough funds to make 
payment. If not it approaches G  not Barclays  and asks it to sell the appropriate amount 
of assets to fund the drawdown request.
I'm aware that G is a subsidiary of Barclays, so Mr S may think that, when he's instructed 
Barclays to make drawdowns for him, Barclays approaches G internally to make the 
necessary arrangements to ensure liquidity. But thats not what happens. Instead Barclays 
routes any request for payment through S. S will then make any necessary request to G to 
sell assets. So theres no direct internal contact between Barclays and G in those 
circumstances, even if they are both under the same umbrella company. 
Also, as I understand it G manages the SIPP fund for S; that is, it is S that invests in Gs 
fund not Mr S himself. So G won't necessarily know what sums are available in Mr S SIPP 
account and how much of the fund assets to sell. So it will need to take instruction from S on 
that issue, this isn't something that Barclays as Mr Ss investment manager would be able to 
do. That said its clear to me that, in the past, Mr S has made any ad hoc payment requests 
directly to Barclays and it has passed those requests to S on his behalf. And, with the 
exception of an issue in 2017  when Barclays also advised Mr S that he should contact S 
directly himself  this arrangement has worked reasonably well. But I agree with Barclays 
that Mr S making his requests in that manner does add an extra layer of administration. 
Thats because in order to complete such a request the following steps have to be taken:
Mr S makes a request to Barclays.
Barclays passes that request to S.
S can then action that request by, for example, stopping, reducing or increasing a 
drawdown instruction and, if required, making a request of G to sell assets to ensure 
the necessary liquidity.
There are clearly a minimum of three layers to that process. But if Mr S contacts S himself, 
then one layer is removed, as follows:
Mr S makes a request to S.
S can then action that request as set out in the third bullet point above.
That is one layer of administration fewer than if Mr S contacts Barclays in the first instance. 
And that shorter process should, in theory, be able to run smoother. But, as Ive said above, 
it appears that previously Mr S hasnt often experienced issues with putting requests directly 
to Barclays and has seen no reason to contact S directly. But in March 2020 the process 
broke down.
Its worth noting that on 16 March 2020 the Prime Minister announced that, owing to the 
concerns caused by the pandemic, people should stop all non-essential social contact and 
work from home wherever possible. As a result many organisations, including financial 
businesses such as Barclays and S, had to try to make a transition from the majority of staff 
being office based to working from home. But many businesses simply weren't set up for 
that. And they didnt necessarily have the equipment readily available to make that transition 
smoothly, while also safeguarding its customers information. And this affected some 
businesses ability to correspond by email (because the staff didnt have the encrypted kit 
with which to do so) and/or making/taking phone calls.
I think its likely that this transition process affected Mr S request, made three days after the 
Prime Ministers announcement, to stop his planned April 2020 drawdown. I note that at the 
time Barclays told Mr S it was having difficulty contacting S itself. Mr S later, not 
unreasonably, questioned why Barclays didnt just email his request to S straightaway. As 
far as I'm aware, Barclays hasnt addressed that point head-on. But it has accepted that it 
delayed in dealing with the matter and letting Mr S know that on this occasion it would be 
better if he contacted S himself. Similarly, Barclays also accepted that, because its 
instruction to S wasnt clear  that he only wanted to stop the planned April 2020 drawdown 
 then S mistakenly stopped the July 2020 drawdown. Clearly both those incidents were 
sources of distress and inconvenience for Mr S. And I agree with our investigator that 
compensation of £250 is a reasonable sum to address the distress and inconvenience 
arising from that.
But it appears that, rather than the direct impact of those errors, Mr S was more concerned 
because he felt that Barclays was attempting to amend the existing contractual relationships 
between the parties to the SIPP. But, as I've described above, I'm satisfied that wasnt the 
case. Mr S did successfully apply for membership of S scheme and in doing so entered into 
a contract with it. And while Barclays did make requests for S to take action with regards to drawdowns, that doesn't mean that that was the most efficient manner in which such 
requests could be handled. Neither does it mean that Mr S only had a contractual 
relationship with Barclays. The SIPP process always allowed Mr S to make requests directly 
to S. As such, with the exception of the level of compensation it offered to Mr S, I'm 
persuaded that Barclays responded to Mr S concerns appropriately and wasnt trying to alter 
the contractual relationships between the parties. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that, unless it has already done so, 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr S £250 compensation in total to address the distress 
and inconvenience arising from the mistakes it made handling his SIPP. I make no other 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman