DRN-3690215
The complaint
Mr F complains that he couldnt log on to online banking with Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
On 15 February 2022, Mr F applied for a credit card from Santander. It was agreed on 16 
February 2022 with a limit of £4,000. He previously had accounts from Santander  which 
were closed in January 2021. He tried to log onto online banking but couldnt do so as it 
required him to use his old mobile phone number  which he no longer had. Mr F called 
Santander on 25 February 2022 and was told that to change the mobile phone number, 
theyd need to complete a security call back to his old phone number. But as that wasnt 
possible, therefore he would need to go to a branch to complete security checks. Mr F didnt 
want to do that and asked Santander to close his credit card account  which they did.
Mr F complained. He said that he would have had to travel for a total of three hours to get to 
the nearest Santander branch and back. That was ridiculous in his opinion. He couldnt see 
how his old online credentials were still being used, when he closed his Santander accounts 
a long time ago. He said that to retain his data was a data breach. He said the credit search 
was sitting on his credit file and should be deleted. He said Santanders call handler was 
rude and condescending.
Santander said to us that Mr F had logged onto his online account using his old credentials 
on 18 February 2022 and 23 February 2022. They said that Mr F agreed to a credit search 
being done when he applied for the card  so it should remain on his record. They said that 
to visit a branch was part of their processes, and therefore they hadnt made a mistake. 
Mr F brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Santander had complied with their 
processes, and therefore had acted reasonably. Mr Fs old online banking profile had been 
retained in their records as part of its processes  so that old customers could see their 
banking data and statements for up to five years. He said the call handler was correct to ask 
Mr F to visit a branch. He listened to the call in question, and didnt find the call handler rude 
or condescending.
Mr F asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset that this service exists to resolve individual disputes between 
customers and financial businesses. We arent the regulator of Santander thats the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So  we dont tell businesses to change their policies or 
practices. So  here, its for Santander to make its own commercial decisions as to how it 
runs its online and mobile banking. But we do say if a customer has, or hasnt, been dealt 
with fairly and reasonably  based on the individual circumstances of their complaint. 
I listened to the call which took place on 25 February 2022. Mr F was asked if he could take 
a security call back  to his old number  to change to the new number. This clearly wasnt 
possible as a solution. And he was then asked to visit a branch to verify his details  and this 
wasnt practical, as it involved a long journey. So  Mr F closed his account.
We asked Santander more information about their processes when a customer had changed 
their phone number. They showed us these and they confirmed that a visit to a branch was 
needed. So  what Mr F was told was consistent with their processes.
I considered the use of Mr Fs old online banking profile (from when he had accounts with 
Santander - up to January 2021). Santander explained these were retained  for all 
customers. This is so that customers can access their old bank statements and data for up 
to five years. This makes sense  and is a process that Santander follow, as I believe do all 
banks. So  I cant say that was wrong.
Mr F has said he wants the search deleted from his credit file  but I agree with Santander 
here. Mr F signed up to a search being done when he applied for the credit card, and I dont 
think its reasonable that this is deleted. 
Mr F says he found Santanders call handler to be rude and condescending. I listened to the 
call and while I accept that such matters are subjective, I didnt find this to be the case. He 
did seem unsure about the process to be followed and had to refer to a colleague for help. 
But I think that was a reasonable thing to do to ensure he was giving Mr F the right advice. 
So, in summary, when Mr F was asked to go to a branch to verify his new number, 
Santander was complying with their processes. I accept that this was inconvenient for Mr F  
but we cant insist that a firm changes its operational processes. Thats not part of our role.
And so  while I can accept that this will be disappointing for Mr F  Im not going to ask 
Santander to do anything here.]
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman