DRN-4274267
The complaint
Mr J complains that Nationwide Building Society irresponsibly provided him with a credit
card, and increased the limit, which he couldnt afford the payments on.
What happened
Nationwide provided Mr J with a credit card on 17 September 2014. He was given an initial
credit limit of £3,200, which was increased at his request on 1 October 2014, to £3,800.
Mr J said that when he applied Nationwide should have checked his credit record and would
have seen he had recent missed payments to credit cards and loans. His debt load was
excessive relative to his income and expenditure, he was only making minimum payments
on his credit cards and had an excessively high and unsustainable credit utilisation rate. Also
between 2010 and November 2014, he was self-employed and had negligible income from
work - so effectively unemployed. The only income he had during this period was from
gambling related winnings, but he also had heavy gambling losses. He said the card was
primarily used to continue to facilitate his gambling habit.
Mr J has shown us his bank account statements showing transactions dating back to 2012.
He has also provided copies of his tax returns for 2013-14 and 2014-15. He has also shown
us a recent credit report.
Nationwide said it correctly followed all its procedures at the time and didnt agree it had
made an error.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that had Nationwide
attempted to verify Mr Js income it wouldve discovered there wasnt any regular earned
income, and with little or no income didnt feel the credit card wouldve appeared affordable.
So he said Nationwide should refund all the interest and other charges on the account.
Nationwide disagreed. It said Mr J didnt declare he was self-employed in his application.
Instead, he confirmed he was employed, working for P Ltd and declared his gross annual
income as £40,000. His application was considered low risk because he had no adverse
history either with it or through the management of any accounts he held with it or the credit
referencing agencies and had a very good credit score at the time of his application. There 
was no aspect of Mr Js application that would have triggered a manual review of the
information provided, which it took in good faith. It operates a sophisticated automated
application checking system which verifies an applicants income, their credit commitments
and reviews any adverse/negative credit file insertions from the respective bureaus.
Nationwide further pointed out that Mr J had knowingly falsified information on his credit card
application, and then entered a legally binding credit agreement with it, having deliberately
given incorrect information, which misled it into proceeding with his credit card. It
questioned the ethical position of providing him with redress for that.
Whilst it hasnt retained records of the actual checks carried out, Nationwide has shown us
charts of Mr Js history of use of the account, and the number of defaults and cash advances
on his record at the time of application, and going forward. After increasing the credit limit in
October 2014, Nationwide said that Mr J used up the credit limit rapidly, and the account
was revoked on 31 October 2014, with no further credit provided.
I issued a provisional decision. I said that on the basis of the evidence Id seen, I couldnt 
say that Nationwides decision to issue the card or to raise the credit limit was irresponsible.
Nationwide accepted my provisional findings.
Mr J disagreed, he pointed out that he had the following debts at the time of taking out the 
credit card (in the order set out in his response):
A £20,000 loan taken out on in August 2014
A £21,000 loan taken out in August 2014
Overdraft facilities for two bank accounts (not used) of £5,000 each
Credit card 1, issued in 2008, which was at or near its £5,000 limit with minimum 
payments being made until 10 September 2014 when loan funds were used to pay 
£2,000
Credit card 2, also issued in 2008, was also near its £5,000 limit
Credit card, 3, with a £6,000 limit, first payment made on 18 September 2014
Credit card 4 with a £3,000 limit, first payment made on 1 October 2014
Credit card 5, £5,000. limit, first payment made on 3 October 2014
Credit card 6, £4,000 limit, applied for at the same time as the Nationwide card
Credit card 7, £3,000 limit, issued on 18 September 2014
He said he had rental costs of £1,750 per month and utilities, food, and other living expenses 
of c.£1k+ per month. So in total he said his living costs and debt repayment obligations were 
c.£3,730-£4,160 per month. Based on an anticipated income of £40,000 this would have 
worked out at about £2,500 to £2,600 a month which he said he clearly wouldnt have been 
in a position to pay. So he said that Nationwide providing the credit card and the limit 
increase was clearly irresponsible. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out below my provisional findings, in italics:
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set
out on our website. Ive taken that approach into account in considering Mr Js complaint.
So, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like the type and
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the
credit and the consumers circumstances. As a lending relationship continues over time and
the level of credit increases, lenders may need to obtain further information from a borrower
to check whether theyre lending responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the
customer.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint are:Did Nationwide complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr J would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point
where Nationwide ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Js
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt
have provided further credit?
Mr Js bank account (with another provider) at the time does show substantial gambling
transactions, but these appear to have been funded by transfers from other accounts. The
account was in credit and had been for some time. I note that after 6 October 2014 the
account became overdrawn and thereafter remained overdrawn - up to £5,000.
I can see Mr J had another credit card with varying though regular payments made on it but I
dont know what the balance would have been. I see he also took out a loan in May 2014 for
£12,500 and was paying another loan payment of £163 a month. I dont think for this credit
card it would have been proportionate to expect Nationwide to review bank statements. As
the account was in credit which would have shown on any credit report, this wouldnt have
been a warning sign to consider his expenditure in greater detail. So Nationwide wouldnt
have seen Mr Js gambling record.
Mr J says his income was negligible from work up until November 2014 when he started
employment. But thats not what he told Nationwide  he said he was employed by P Ltd
with an income of £40,000. In fact P Ltd was a company of which Mr J was the sole director.
His tax returns show, for 2013-14 income from employment of £5,500 and capital gains of
£17,500. For 2014-15 his income from employment is shown as £23,100 with a net loss from
self-employment of £18,200.
The problem with the tax returns is that as the application was made in September 2014 the
2013-14 statement wouldnt have shown Mr Js up to date income and the 2014-15
information wouldnt have been available. And I wouldnt have expected Nationwide to ask
for tax records.
There are transactions on Mr Js statements showing money going to and coming from
P Ltd, including a payment on 1 September 2014 of £12,500. There was an earlier payment
out to P Ltd of the same amount. However there are other such payments (albeit on an
irregular basis) from P Ltd and Mr J declared on his tax return that he was employed by
P Ltd. (as a director) as of April 2014.
I think our adjudicator assumed that Nationwide didnt verify Mr Js declared income.
Although Nationwide says its procedures carry out an automatic verification. I think if the
verification was done today it wouldnt show that Mr J had a regular income. But Im
conscious that in 2014 the technical aspects of such a procedure would have been less
sophisticated. I think Nationwide should have carried out an income verification. Given that it
says it did so I cant say that any such check wouldnt have verified Mr Ps declared income.
Ive noted Mr Js credit report. But given that it is a recent check, it doesnt show any records
far enough back to inform me about his credit position in September 2014. I dont think that,
at the time of his making the application there is sufficient information to find that Mr Js
credit status was bad as he says it was. Im aware that he made other applications for loans
etc at the same time and it would seem likely that these contributed to him having a poor
record. And Nationwide was sufficiently concerned about Mr Ps use of his account to revoke
the credit within six weeks of taking it out.Ive noted that the credit limit was increased, apparently at Mr Js request, on
1 October 2014. Nationwide says that its procedures allowed for that and there was nothing
to suggest it shouldnt have raised the limit. Normally I would expect Nationwide to carry out
further checks/verification. But as this was within two weeks of the initial application, the
checks wouldnt have been expected to reveal anything different. At that stage Mr Js use of 
the account didnt raise any concerns and a further income check wouldve been pointless.
So, on the basis of the evidence Ive seen, I cant say that Nationwides decision to issue the
card or to raise the credit limit was irresponsible.
I should restate, before dealing with the points Mr J made in response to the provisional 
findings, that as Mr J made his complaint to Nationwide after more than six years, the 
evidence it is able to show us is limited, as its not obliged to keep such records beyond that 
length of time. This does mean that in assessing what information was available to 
Nationwide about Mr Js financial circumstances at the time, I have to consider what it is 
likely to have seen. I can assure Mr J that I have reviewed all the information he has 
provided to us, which is the same information our adjudicator saw.
So, as regards the two loans he took out in August 2014, and credit cards 3 to 7, I think it is 
unlikely that Nationwide would have seen these on any credit check. This is because they 
were all taken out around the same time, the earliest being some time in August 2014. Credit 
reference agencies often take 60 days (or more) to update. So, even at the time of the credit 
limit increase on 1 October 2014, I dont think , unless Mr J told it, Nationwide would have 
been aware of any of those loans or credit cards. More importantly the likely payments for 
those loans or credit cards would not have shown up as part of Mr Js monthly outgoings, so 
again unless he told Nationwide about them, it wouldnt have known (and I think it unlikely 
that he did).
I dont think an unused overdraft facility would have been likely to prompt any concern about 
Mr Js financial circumstances.
As regards the information Nationwide was likely to have seen , it appears that it would have 
seen credit cards 1 and 2. Looking at Mr Js bank statements, I can see no payments for 
credit card 2. This may have appeared on another account but I have no other information, 
apart from what Mr J has told us, about it. With regard to credit card 1, if this had a £5,000 
limit, and he was near that limit, Mr J had been paying substantially more than a minimum 
payment in the  months before the application. In respect of the loan taken out in May 2014 
there is no evidence in the bank statements Ive seen, of any payments for this loan. 
As regards Mr Js monthly expenditure it was his responsibility, as with his income, to 
provide accurate information. Accepting that £40,000 works out at a net figure of £2,500 a 
month. So if he did have rent of £1,750 and £1,000 other expenditure (not including 
credit/loan payments), I think it very unlikely that if he had declared those figures to 
Nationwide (or any other loan/credit provider at the time), he would have had a card issued 
to him. It appears likely that Nationwide relied on the figures given to it by Mr J, and I think it 
was reasonable and proportionate of it to do so. Although I dont have the information 
relating to what those figures were, nevertheless I would observe that up until the time of the 
application Mr Js bank account was in credit.
So Im not persuaded to change my provisional findings. Those findings are now final and 
form part of this final decision.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman