DRN-3487230
The complaint
Mr U has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited as he thinks 
it valued his car too low and unfairly disposed of it without his permission.
What happened
Mr U had an accident in May 2021 and made a claim to Admiral. Admiral said his car was a 
total loss and, after several revisions of its price, it offered him £3,590 as the market value of 
his car. With the £400 policy excess to be deducted from that figure before settlement. It also 
said the car was structurally damaged such that it could only be broken for parts (a category 
B write-off). Mr U felt the car was worth £6,000 and that Admirals customer service was 
terrible. Admiral wouldnt change the value but accepted it had been difficult for Mr U to 
contact it. It sent him a cheque for £10.00. Mr U complained to us.
Following Mr U referring his complaint to us, Admiral increased its market value offer to 
£4,085, agreeing to pay interest on the additional sum due. Mr U still felt it wasnt enough 
and he was also unhappy that even though he had not agreed to a settlement figure, Admiral 
had disposed of his car. He felt this had prejudiced his chance to show its valuation was too 
low. Admiral offered Mr U £50 compensation but wouldnt amend its market value further.
Our investigator felt the market value, as amended by Admiral during the complaint to us, 
had been reached fairly. She said that whilst Mr U was understandably upset at his car being 
disposed of, it had been marked as a category B write-off. She didnt think Admiral could 
reasonably have been asked to hold on to it, or that, if it had, Mr Us position would have 
been materially different. She felt the compensation offered was fair. She said Admiral 
should pay the outstanding claim amount, plus interest and compensation as offered.
Mr U said Admiral had never told him of its intent to dispose of the car. He said if he had 
known he wouldnt have pursued the claim with it. Mr U said he would never have sold the 
car for less than £6,000  so that is the figure the car was worth to him. Our investigator 
responded to Mr U and confirmed his complaint would be passed for an ombudsmans 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret for the upset I know this will cause Mr U, Ive found along 
the same lines as our investigator. So, in short, Im not upholding this complaint. Ive set out 
my reasoning below.
I know Mr U feels that his car was worth £6,000 but his policy doesnt offer him cover for 
what he feels his car is worth, nor for what value he might have wanted to sell his car for if it 
hadnt been damaged. Rather the policy agrees, in the event of total loss, for the cars 
market value to be paid. 
A cars market value is the price it would cost, in the general marketplace to replace with a 
similar car. This service usually finds it most appropriate to use industry trade guides to 
determine the market value for a car. Here, Admiral has explained that its most recently 
derived market value figure of £4,085 was the average of two trade guide values of £4,070 
and £4,100. Ive seen those valuations and they are for a car matching Mr Us make and 
model, as well as reflecting the correct mileage. And I note that our investigator checked 
these guides and found similar figures. The guides do update, so some small change 
doesnt surprise me. But there is nothing to suggest that the fair and reasonable market 
value for Mr Us car is £6,000. 
I know our investigator found a third trade guide returned a slightly higher value than the 
other two (£4,639) Admiral used. But it doesnt surprise me that Admiral didnt rely on the 
third guide as this service will often find it fair to discount a higher value which is out of line 
with the others. And, as our investigator explained the value Admiral came to of £4,085 was 
within the range of all three values returned. I think, on balance, Admiral reached its final 
valuation fairly and reasonably. So there are no grounds for me to make it pay more to Mr U.
As Admiral did not offer or pay this increased amount originally though, it will have to make a 
further payment to Mr U. And, as offered, that sum will have to have interest* added to it. 
Admiral has offered to pay this from 28 June 2021 which was the date the initial settlement 
amount was paid to Mr U. It will have to be applied until the additional amount is paid. I think 
that is fair and reasonable.
Mr U has said that if Admiral had not disposed of the car, hed have been able to challenge it 
further on its value. I have to bear in mind that Admiral, having found the car was a 
category B write-off, had a duty under industry standards to ensure the car was disposed of. 
And whilst I know Mr U feels strongly that he could have successfully challenged Admiral on 
the cars value if it hadnt been scrapped, Im not persuaded that is the case. I say that 
because so much of the cars market value depends on the trade guides which Admiral has 
already used to reach the settlement value on offer. If Admiral was still arguing that the cars 
condition meant it could fairly offer a value reduced from those set out in the guides, then my 
view might be different. In that instance a judgement call on the cars condition might be 
required which would, of course, be easier if the car still existed.  But with Admirals final 
offer, that isnt an issue anymore. I think Admiral though could have been clearer with Mr U 
about what would have happened with the car, and if it had, his frustration at what he 
perceived as a lost opportunity to challenge its settlement when he found out it had been 
disposed of, would have been avoided. 
I know Mr U has also said he wouldnt have pursued the claim at all if he had been told 
earlier on that Admiral intended to dispose of his car. But the difficulty for Mr U is that 
Admiral did not know what course the claim would take until the car was assessed. And 
once it was assessed the engineer decided it was a category B write-off. At that point 
Admiral became bound to ensure the car was disposed of  whether or not Mr U chose to 
continue with the claim, the car couldnt be returned to him for him to use it or sell it for 
anything other than parts. And I havent, seen anything that makes me think the cars parts 
would have fetched more than the market value for the car itself. 
I believe Admiral has paid £10.00 to Mr U previously. Seemingly this was for the cost of calls 
hed had to make to it. If thats been paid it wont have to pay it again. I note Admiral has 
now also offered £50.00 compensation for upset. In the circumstances here, I think that is 
fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral to pay Mr U:£495  being the difference between what it paid to Mr U originally  £3,190, and its 
amended settlement value (£4,085), less the policy excess (£400)  £3,685.
An amount equivalent to interest* on the sum of £495, applied from 28 June 2021 until 
settlement is made.
£10.00, if it hasnt been paid already, for call costs.
£50.00 compensation for upset.  
My final decision
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress set out above at 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman