DRN-1883560
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W have complained about a whole of life policy they hold with Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited. Following receipt of a review letter, they are unhappy that they may 
need to start paying a higher premium or accept a lower level of death benefit in the near 
future. They have said they werent told this could happen when they took the policy out.
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W met with an adviser from a business which was later taken over by Aviva in 
1988. At the time they had some existing life protection and mortgage protection in place. 
Their objective was to leave a lump sum when one of them died to the surviving party to 
cover funeral costs.
They were recommended to cancel two of their existing policies and take out an endowment 
policy and a joint whole of life policy. Only the whole of life policy is the subject of this 
complaint.
The whole of life policy was set up on a standard basis with a sum assured of around 
£25,000. It included waiver of premium benefit and indexation.
In 2002 Mrs W and Mr W complained to Aviva that the policies were mis-sold. When Aviva 
investigated it found the endowment policy was indeed mis-sold and provided the 
appropriate redress. It also found that while the whole of life policy was suitable for them in 
light of their stated objectives at the time of the sale it felt that this was a churned policy 
and they had lost out by not receiving a return on that existing policy. It therefore offered 
compensation equal to a refund of premiums paid under that existing policy plus interest.
Mrs W and Mr W accepted these offers as settlement of their mis-sale complaints in July 
2003 but kept the whole of life policy going.
In 2012 Aviva discovered the whole of life policy hadnt been reviewed as it should have 
been. So it carried out the review and found that the premium was enough to maintain the 
sum assured at that time so Mrs W and Mr W didnt have to make any changes to the policy. 
Aviva informed Mrs W and Mr W of this.
In 2018, following a further scheduled review, this time carried out correctly, it was again 
found that no change was required as the premiums were still enough to maintain the sum 
assured. However Aviva did explain that if they wanted to prevent a possible larger increase 
in premiums at the next review in 2023 they could start paying a higher premium 
immediately or reduce the death benefit under the policy.
This is what prompted Mrs W and Mr W to complain. They have said they were unaware the 
policy was a reviewable one and were never told the premiums could increase or the death 
benefit could decrease by such large amounts. For this reason, they felt the policy had been 
mis-sold.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt be upheld. He 
reviewed the sale of the policy in 1988 and felt that whilst it was churned, as Aviva had 
found, Mrs W and Mr W did have a need for whole of life protection. So, he felt it was 
suitable but also acknowledged the findings of Aviva and the redress paid to 
Mrs W and Mr W in 2003. He was also of the view that Mrs W and Mr W would have been 
told about the reviewable nature of the policy when they took it out and that this was also 
explained in the policys terms and conditions. So, he felt that Aviva hadnt done anything 
wrong.
Mrs W and Mr W didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view the policy had 
been mis-sold. They questioned how they could be assured that Aviva had carried out the 
review correctly in 2012 and wanted proof that no amendments were required at that time. 
They reiterated that if they knew the premiums or sum assured could change so drastically, 
they would never have taken the policy out. And they identified a couple of complaints from 
this Services external website which they thought were the same as theirs and where we 
had upheld.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I have explained my reason for 
this below.
As mentioned, Aviva reviewed the sale of this policy in 2002 at the request of 
Mrs W and Mr W. I have looked at the information Aviva has provided pertaining to its 
investigation and I am satisfied it carried out a full investigation of the sale that took place in 
1988. And I am in agreement that this policy was churned. I also agree however the policy 
was suitable given what Mrs W and Mr W have explained their objectives were back then. 
So, whilst the policy shouldnt have been sold, as they wanted life cover at the point of sale 
and now want to keep life cover, the policy has to remain in place.
I have also looked at the settlement agreement they signed in July 2003. This states that the 
offer was accepted in full and final settlement of the complaint and this discharges the 
business from all liabilities under that contract.
Therefore, in my view it isnt appropriate for me to continue to consider the mis-sale of this 
policy because this has already been dealt with and accepted by Mrs W and Mr W.
Turning now to the points Mrs W and Mr W have raised about the reviewable nature of the 
policy, there are a number of difficulties I have faced in considering this issue. How long ago 
the sale took place means contemporaneous documentation is scarce. Also the fact that a 
different business to Aviva actually sold it is also an issue because Aviva no longer has 
access to full records of the sale.
However, having said that, in my experience of these policies and knowing how they were 
sold I think its very likely the adviser would have explained to Mrs W and Mr W that the 
policy was a reviewable one and what that could mean in the future.  And this is supported 
by the fact Mrs W and Mr W have said they knew the premiums could increase slightly. Its 
important for them to understand that there is no way the adviser would have been able to 
quantify those changes in premiums at the time of the sale. And him informing them that this 
could happen is in my view enough for them to know changes to the policy could be a possibility in the future.  I think its very likely this would have been in the context of 
explaining the policy was reviewable. So, this is satisfactory in my view. Also, the terms and 
conditions of the policy and the key features documents contain information about the 
reviews so I think this is something Mrs W and Mr W should have been aware of as it was 
their responsibility to read these and ensure they understood them.
I know Mrs W and Mr W have said they wouldnt have taken the policy had they known the 
premiums or death benefit could change in the future, but I dont think this is likely. This point 
is clouded by the fact the policy was churned so yes, they could have kept their existing 
whole of life policy in place and its arguable that they should have. But that policy was 
cancelled and now cant be reinstated and because they have stated they still want life 
cover, this current policy needs to remain in place. But the point to note is that their existing 
policy at the time of the sale was also a whole of life policy therefore it is likely this was also 
a reviewable one. Therefore, this policy would also have required changes to the premiums 
or the death benefit at some point in the future because all whole of life reviewable policies 
work this way.
Mrs W and Mr W have raised numerous questions about the current state of their policy, why 
the value to decrease to a nil value and why they cant have a non-reviewable policy. I have 
seen the responses provided by Aviva and also by the investigator initially involved in this 
complaint and I am satisfied both have answered Mrs W and Mr Ws queries fully and 
satisfactorily. Ultimately no one can predict what will happen to a policy at the next review. 
This is because this is dependent upon a number of factors including mortality rates and the 
rising cost of life cover as one gets older. So I think Aviva has done what it can to explain the 
workings of the policy and why changes are required therefore I dont intend to repeat these 
explanations in this decision. It seems to me that Mrs W and Mr W may not entirely 
understand the policy or how it works so given their continuing concerns I would suggest 
they seek some independent financial advice.
With regards to Avivas actions I dont think it has done anything wrong or has administered 
the policy incorrectly. The reviewable nature was explained in the terms and conditions and 
also would have been discussed with the adviser. It is the policyholders responsibility to 
read and understand these documents and if there were concerns they should have 
questioned it. This is simply how reviewable whole of life policies work industry wide. And 
while non reviewable polices exist they are usually prohibitively expensive from the outset 
due to the fact they have to cover changes in costs and age from the start. So I think its 
unlikely Mrs W and Mr W would have been able to afford this type of policy from the outset. 
And in any event these policies werent available from the business that sold them the policy 
at the time of the sale.
I know Mrs W and Mr W feel they cant trust Aviva that no changes to the policy were 
required in 2012, but the fact their premiums and death benefit stayed at the same levels 
show this was in actual fact the case and I am satisfied with this.
I appreciate Mrs W and Mr W feel their complaint is identical to the examples they have seen 
on our external website. But each complaint that we consider has individual circumstances 
and nuances. Therefore, it is unlikely any complaint would be exactly the same as theirs and 
it would be remiss of them to rely on these examples for guidance about their current issue.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman