DRN-4304087
The complaint
Ms Ps complaint is about a claim she made on her U K Insurance Limited (UKI) legal 
expenses insurance policy, which UKI declined.
Ms P says UKI treated her unfairly.
What happened
Ms Ps property was damaged because of an escape of water from the property above hers. 
A claim was made by the freeholder of Ms Ps property on its buildings insurance policy. As 
part of that claim repairs were carried out to Ms Ps property, which Ms P says werent 
conducted properly and caused damaged to her home.
Ms P made a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy for cover to pursue a claim 
against the loss adjusters and builders involved in administering the claim made by her 
freeholder on its buildings insurance policy. UKI referred the claim to a panel firm to 
consider. 
Overall their advice culminated in UKI taking the position that the claim wasnt covered 
because:
It didnt fall under the contract section of the policy; Ms P didnt have a direct contract 
with the loss adjusters, the builders or the building insurer responsible for the claim.
The property section of the policy excludes claims in relation to the construction of Ms 
Ps building or land. 
Ms P wasnt happy with UKIs position or their handling of her claim generally. She felt there 
were unnecessary delays on the panel firms part in relation to completing their review of her 
claim and that UKI discriminated against her as a leaseholder by not covering her claim. UKI 
dont accept theyve done anything wrong.
Our investigator considered Ms Ps complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said there was no cover under the policy for the claims Ms P wanted to bring. She also 
addressed some additional concerns that Ms P had raised but didnt uphold those either. Ms 
P doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ms Ps complaint for broadly the same reasons set out 
by the investigator.
Before I explain why, I want to acknowledge both Ms Ps strength of feeling about her 
complaint against UKI and the number of submissions shes made. I note that shes sent a 
considerable volume of documents to help support her position. I wont be making reference 
to all of those within this decision, nor will I repeat her submissions in any detail. In this 
decision I will focus on the crux of the issues complained about and address them 
accordingly. No disrespect is intended to Ms P in this regard, it just reflects the informal 
nature of our Service.
Ive dealt with the main issues raised under the headings below for ease of reference.
Reasons UKI declined the claim
The policy terms most relevant to the claims Ms P was making are contained under the 
property and contract section of cover. 
The contract section of cover requires there to be a dispute about an agreement Ms P 
entered into. In this case I havent seen anything that supports Ms P has a direct agreement 
with either the loss adjusters or builders involved in administering the claim made in respect 
of her property. The loss adjusters were engaged by the buildings insurer and the buildings 
insurer has a direct contractual relationship with her freeholder, but not Ms P. Thats not 
unusual where a freeholder is involved. As far as I can see, Ms P didnt engage the builders 
herself so again I cant draw the conclusion that this is a claim that would fall within the 
contracts section of cover.
Ive gone on to consider the property section of the policy. This section excludes cover for 
advice, specification, design, construction, conversion, extension, renovation or demolition 
on any land or relating to any buildings. Whilst it might not have been Ms Ps intention for 
her property to be renovated, I think the nature of the works required to make good her 
property amount to this. In the absence of a policy definition for renovation, Ive applied the 
ordinary dictionary meaning which refers to the act or process of repairing, renewing or 
restoring to good condition. So, I think the exclusion relied on by UKI under this section still 
applies here.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to turn down cover. From what Ive seen 
Ms Ps claim isnt one that falls into the types of claims the policy provides for. 
I understand she now wants to obtain a Solicitors opinion to help support that her claim 
should be covered. Ms P is of course entitled to do that. If she does find a supportive legal 
opinion which suggests she does have a contract with the parties she wants to claim 
against, she can present that to UKI to consider further. 
Right to representation
Ms P feels that UKI have prevented her from returning to the panel firm for representation. I 
think thats correct in so far as her legal expenses insurance cover is concerned. The panel 
firm were instructed by UKI to consider Ms Ps claim under the policy terms. Given their 
findings, UKI concluded there was no cover. Ive already determined that their stance was 
reasonable in this regard, so it follows that Ms P is not currently entitled to cover. 
That doesnt mean that shes prevented from accessing representation, however. She is of 
course free to contact the panel firm to enquire whether theyre prepared to act for her on a 
privately paying basis. Thats not something UKI would be involved in nor have any influence 
over. They just wouldnt be providing insurance cover for that representation, but as Ive said 
above, that is a position theyre entitled to take under the policy terms.
Complaints about freeholders and discrimination Ms P has said the policy she took out is discriminatory because it doesnt cover claims 
against freeholders. 
Its right that the policy excludes claims arising from or relating to leases, tenancies or 
licenses to occupy land or buildings. So, in this case that exclusion would prevent Ms P from 
bringing a claim against her freeholder for breach of the lease. But I dont think this means 
UKI have discriminated against her or other leaseholders.
An insurer is entitled to determine the types of claims it is and isnt prepared to cover. By 
adding this exclusion, its taken a decision not to offer cover for claims like the one Ms P 
might be considering against her freeholder. The exclusion isnt unusual in policies of this 
nature but rather, representative of the risk appetite of many before the event insurers. We 
wouldnt generally interfere with an insurers decision to limit cover in this way. As long as it 
has set out what it was and wasnt prepared to cover clearly, its not something we would 
generally look behind. 
In this case Ive not seen anything to suggest that the extent of cover wasnt made clear to 
Ms P. From what Ive seen it was set out within her policy documents. If those werent made 
available to her before the policy was taken out, then that will form the subject of a separate 
complaint shed need to pursue against the seller of the policy. I understand this is 
something shes now considering and is therefore not a matter Ill be commenting on further.
Overall, however, I dont think that UKIs decision to apply the exclusion it has in relation to 
leases in its policies amounts to discrimination. 
Delays
Ms P says that UKI caused delays in the administration of her claim. She says the 
documents it sent over to the panel firm were incomplete and this has meant they had to be 
sent again. Ms P says this caused both delays and inconvenience to her.
Ive considered everything Ms P has said and the documents shes provided but looking at 
the timeline, even if I take into account that UKI didnt send absolutely everything Ms P sent 
them to the panel firm, I cant say this led to a considerable delay in the claim being 
determined. 
Rather it seems that a decision was made on her clam within a matter of weeks. And given 
the information had already been sent by email to UKI by Ms P, it was readily available to 
her to forward on to the panel firm. So, I cant say there was a significant impact on her as a 
result of this, such that UKI need to do anything more to put things right or that the 
information she felt she needed to resend was even necessary for the panel firm to 
determine her claim. 
As I understand it, they already had access to the policy terms applicable to her claim so 
were aware of the exclusions that were relevant to it. This coupled with the information she 
provided about her claim was probably enough to determine that issue. 
Other matters  
I understand Ms P is unhappy with other matters such as the escape of water claim she 
made, but thats not something I can consider in this complaint. If she hasnt already done 
so, she can raise that with the relevant insurer directly and if she remains dissatisfied with 
their response, she can refer that complaint to this Service once eight weeks have expired.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman