DRN-4110665
The complaint
Mr C and Mr I complain Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) refused to explain how it calculates its 
mortgage interest rate when they were deciding whether to make an overpayment. And 
theyre unhappy with the service BoS provided.
Since Mr Is been dealing with BoS and the complaint, Ill mainly refer to him in my decision.
What happened
In 2008 Mr C and Mr I took out an interest only buy to let mortgage with BoS of around 
£230,000 over a term of 25 years, which was secured over a property they own. They had 
an initial fixed interest rate deal until around January 2011 when the interest rate reverted to 
BoSs standard variable rate (SVR).
In 2022 they were deciding which of their mortgages to reduce by making a significant 
overpayment. To help them decide, Mr I asked BoS to provide information about the existing 
rate on their mortgage and how it was calculated.
In early October 2022 Mr I approached BoS through its mobile messaging service. He 
complained when the BoS customer service agent was unable to explain how the interest 
rate on the mortgage was worked out. BoS responded to the complaint later that month. But 
Mr I wasnt satisfied with its response and its failure to answer his follow up correspondence. 
So, he brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt think BoS had done anything wrong. He said, in summary, BoS didnt 
have to disclose how it worked out its interest rates since that was commercially sensitive 
information. And the service BoS had provided wasnt unreasonable.
Mr I disagreed. He said BoS should say how it works out the rate; it had never told him the 
information was commercially sensitive; BoSs responses were inadequate as it had failed to 
respond to correspondence in a timely way or at all; and to put things right BoS should pay 
compensation.
Since the complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Is strength of feeling about his and Mr Cs complaint. But, for reasons that 
are similar to our investigators, I dont uphold it, as Ill explain.
I appreciate the detailed information the parties have provided. Ive considered everything 
carefully. But I wont set it all out here. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects 
the informal nature of the service we provide. Ill focus on what I consider key to reaching my 
decision.
Ive noted Mr C and Mr I had access to information about the rate that applied to their 
mortgage from time to time, and what could lead to it changing, from the mortgage offer, its 
terms and conditions, annual statements and through on-line banking. But I appreciate Mr I 
wanted, not only confirmation of the rate, but also a more detailed explanation than he had 
already about how the SVR was worked out. He approached BoS through its mobile 
messaging service to get hold of that information in early October 2022. 
BoS has explained that its mobile messaging service is intended to provide customers with a 
way of asking quick and simple questions about its products. From the exchange Ive seen, 
the customer service agent told Mr I early on the rate the mortgage was on. They said Mr Is 
query would need to be referred to a specialist team. And they provided the teams phone 
number. I appreciate Mr I felt his question was a simple one the customer service agent 
ought to have answered. But it wasnt unreasonable for them to refer him on when they 
werent able to provide the information Mr I was asking for. And the agent quickly made clear 
to him they couldnt.
Mr I said at the time he wasnt able to make calls. Im not aware of why, or whether Mr C 
was in a similar position. But I can understand it was frustrating for Mr I to be told hed need 
to ring another team. BoS says Mr I would probably have got a response sooner if hed 
phoned as advised. But its unlikely to have satisfied him since BoS says he would have got 
the same information it provided when it responded to the complaint. In any event, since Mr I 
had complained, it was reasonable for BoS to follow its complaints process, even though it 
took longer for them to give an answer. 
BoS responded to Mr C and Mr Is complaint within the timescales set by Financial Conduct 
Authority rules. And it was within a month of Mr I contacting BoS initially through the mobile 
messaging service. The response set out that the mortgage was on the BoS SVR which 
didnt track the Bank of England base rate but could be changed to meet with increases in 
the cost of borrowing. 
Mr Is unhappy BoS didnt respond to his follow up emails saying it hadnt addressed his 
concern. BoS says it has no record of receiving them, although Mr Is provided copies of 
what he sent. But BoS had provided all the information it was prepared to disclose for 
reasons of commercial sensitivity. Its possible that if BoS had given Mr I that explanation, 
that part of the complaint could have been resolved sooner. I appreciate Mr Is frustration 
about that and the process hed had to go through. But since the complaint involves 
concerns about service from the outset, the question about the interest rate calculation was 
still unanswered and Mr I didnt accept our investigators view that BoS dont need to 
disclose that, I think he and Mr C would still have brought the complaint to us. 
Looking at the overall service BoS provided, and the timescales involved, I dont think BoS 
treated Mr C and Mr I unfairly. It explained clearly it couldnt deal with their query through the 
mobile messaging service; it gave details of the team who could address it; it dealt with the 
complaint within the required time limits; it explained the rate was variable and could be 
changed to meet with increases in the cost of borrowing; and it explained how to complain to 
us. I think BoS acted reasonably in all the circumstances, and it wouldnt be fair to ask them 
to pay compensation.
In common with other mortgage lenders, BoS sets its interest rates based on complex 
calculations that take account of many different factors. This is commercially sensitive 
information that we dont generally expect lenders to disclose to their customers. So, I wont 
ask BoS to provide that information to Mr C and Mr I. More detailed information about the 
circumstances in which BoS may make rate changes are explained in the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage which Mr C and Mr I can refer to.  Even if BoS had explained its calculations, the SVR depends on many factors which are 
uncertain and can change. Knowing how the rate is worked out wouldnt necessarily have 
told Mr C and Mr I when or by how much their interest rate might change in the future. I dont 
think it would have helped them decide whether to make an overpayment to their BoS 
mortgage. So, it wouldnt be fair to ask BoS to compensate them for any loss they might 
have incurred by not acting sooner.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr C and Mr I will be disappointed, I dont 
uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman