DRN-2641471
The complaint
Mr H complains that Progressive Money Limited (PML) acted irresponsibly when approving a 
loan for him. 
What happened
Mr H says he was approved a loan by PML in December 2015 although at that time he was 
already in financial difficulties and had various debts elsewhere. Mr H feels PML acted 
irresponsibly at the time and shouldnt have lent him the money as it was clear from his bank 
statements, he was struggling to make ends meet. Mr H says hes now suffering from stress 
because of the level of debt he finds himself in and wants PML to refund all interest charged 
on the loan account. 
PML says they undertook comprehensive measures to ensure affordability of the loan 
request and it passed their credit assessment criteria and deemed the loan affordable. 
Mr H wasnt happy with PMLs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He 
felt PML had carried out sufficient checks based on the information they were provided with. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision.
Mr H says PML provided him with a loan in 2015 although it was unaffordable. When looking 
at this case I have considered if PML had taken reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure the loan was sustainable and affordable.
What happened here is Mr H applied for a loan to consolidate some of his debts with other 
lenders, which in itself is a justifiable reason to lend. While Mr H says he had taken out other 
short-term loans at the time, that is not a reason for PML not to lend to him albeit it should 
form part of their considerations when assessing the loan application.  What is important 
here is whether, on receipt of the information provided by Mr H to assess the affordability, 
that information was acted upon. I do accept that PML obtained a comprehensive package 
of information to assess the loan application which included, payslips, bank statements and 
credit reference searches - this is what I would expect to see for a loan of this level and term.
Amongst the information PML used to assess the loan was Mr Hs bank account statements 
and in those statements for the 3 months leading up to loan being approved it shows that for 
the months of September and November 2015 his mortgage payments were missed. This is 
important because under the Homeowner Unsecured - Plan Matrix, provided to this service 
by PML it states :
Mortgage arrears are not accepted across all plans. Missed mortgage payments can be 
considered but they must be fully documented as to why the payment was missed. Senior 
Manager approval is required on all cases that have missed mortgage payments.
PML says the credit searches obtained show there were no mortgage arrears up until 
October 2015. PML also says Mr H had explained to them that he had been using his own 
funds to pay business expenses and deposited a cheque in November 2015 to cover the 
cost he had incurred on his personal credit card. 
While I understand what PML are saying here, missed mortgage payments are of a concern 
to their business otherwise it wouldnt be documented as a specific condition that needs 
senior management involvement. What happened here is Mr H missed Septembers 
payment which he made up a few weeks later, after he had two pay day loans credited to his 
bank account the same day in excess of £700. In October his mortgage was paid but again 
following a short-term loan the same day of £1,000. Novembers payment was also missed 
and the credit search available to PML at that time didnt show if the November payment was 
made. By their own admission the bank statements they had didnt go far enough to confirm 
if the November mortgage payment had been subsequently made up. From this I cant see 
how the senior manager would have been satisfied there were no missed mortgage 
payments as their terms state, and if these bank statements had been interrogated and 
documented, given the history of previous missed mortgage payments and short-term loans, 
why it was felt this met their criteria.
I say this because this was a refinancing loan of £15,000, so not an insignificant amount and 
repayable over eight years. Its also worth mentioning the credit search annotated by PML 
shows there were two hard core debts totalling around £4,700, one overdraft and the other a 
credit card, where Mr H was simply covering the interest. Given the purpose of the new loan 
was to consolidate debts and these two debts were not part of it, I cant see this was ever 
questioned with Mr H. 
When looking at this case it is important to establish whether the loan provided by PML can 
be seen as sustainable. While PML obtained the level of information necessary to inform 
them whether to lend or not, it didnt go far enough in analysing what they saw. In this case 
Mr H had a record of short-term pay day loans, missed mortgage payments and hard-core 
debt outside the borrowing being refinanced. I am satisfied a more forensic understanding of 
Mr Hs finances should have been undertaken by PML in light of the issues evidenced on the 
information they received, especially  given the amount, purpose and term of the loan here. 
While PML will be disappointed with my decision It follows, they should now refund the 
interest and charges on the loan account and amend Mr Hs credit file accordingly. I would 
also instruct PML to pay Mr H £100 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Both Mr H and PML have responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr H and PML until 28 February 2021 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. While Mr H has accepted my provisional decision, PML have asked me to 
reconsider it and raised several points to support their request.
PML have explained why they believed the loan was affordable and sustainable. PML have 
suggested that after allowing for some extra leeway for income and outgoings, Mr H had 
£121.44 of disposable income. PML also have made the point his debt to income ratio was 
at an acceptable level.
While I see what PML are saying here there is evidence that Mr Hs income could vary from 
month to month, I say this because leading up to the loan agreement, the pay slips he 
provided for the previous two months showed his net pay at around £300 less than the 
amount PML identified in their affordability assessment. Taking the view that despite this 
variance, Mr H had £121.44 per month available as disposable income, while PML may not 
agree, this is based on a fairly modest allowance for day to day living expenses. Its worth 
mentioning this doesnt make allowance for any capital reductions in the debts he still had 
outstanding of around £4700 where he was only paying interest, which had been the case 
for around 18 months. I am satisfied that if Mr H was to try and make those repayments for 
the two outstanding debts over a reasonable timescale of say three years, he would be left 
with little or no leeway in his disposable income to meet any unexpected costs. 
PML state a gross income to monthly creditors was used to assess debt to income ratio. 
This is of course before the new loan was granted by them and assumes interest only would 
continue on the two outstanding debts of £4700 with no capital repayments. I take the view 
that a more appropriate calculation when assessing debt to income would be total new 
financial outgoings to net income. Assuming we accept monthly net income of £2944, which 
PML have used to assess affordability, after the loan was approved it would show a ratio of 
net income to financial expenses of around 70%. PML says the new loan reduced his 
existing financial expenses by consolidating these and I accept that point, but even after 
doing this Mr Hs monthly financial commitments exceeded £2000 per month without any 
allowance for settling the two debts previously referred to. PML says the residual amount 
available from the new loan of circa £2000 was discussed with Mr H and he suggested this 
would be used to part repay one of these debts. That said, from previous notes I have seen 
these monies were expected to be paid into his bank account where he had an overdraft of a 
similar sum, so I am satisfied it was expected to be used to reduce or clear the overdraft and 
not to reduce those two debts. 
PML have questioned the point I raised about his missed mortgage payments and say they 
questioned Mr H on this and were happy these were up to date, apart from the November 
payment, which in itself, PML say isnt a reason not to lend. While I understand what PML 
are saying here, it doesnt alter the fact Mr H had missed mortgage payments and when they 
were met, at a later stage, this was with the support of short term pay day loans. Its 
important to say these are priority debts and accepted as such by PML in their own 
assessment criteria, as I detailed in my provisional decision. When considering the provision 
of longer-term funding, its fair to say lenders need to be more forensic when refinancing 
debts especially when key commitments like Mr Hs mortgage are seen to be under 
pressure. I am satisfied this was the situation here and while PML may not agree I cant see 
that this was circumstantial as they have stated. 
As I have said in my provisional decision, I can see PML gathered reasonable levels of information to assess Mr Hs loan application, my issue is when they got this information 
there was more forensic analysis needed given both the amount and term of the loan. 
Afterall, this was a loan of £15000 committed over eight years and as such was a long-term 
commitment for Mr H to maintain. In this case I am satisfied there was reasonable evidence 
and signs to show Mr H had struggled to meet his previous outstanding commitments and at 
best it was going to be very tight for him to meet his refinanced debts going forward for the 
reasons I have already explained. So, when looking at a key aspect of whether this was 
unaffordable lending, I am satisfied this wasnt likely to be sustainable, given Mr Hs previous 
financial track record and ongoing commitments for the next eight years.
I would say, its important that Mr H and PML now discuss a suitable repayment plan going 
forward. 
While PML will be disappointed with my decision, I see no need to change or add to my 
provisional decision and so my final decision remains the same.
Putting things right
I instruct Progressive Money Limited to refund the interest and charges on Mr Hs loan 
account and amend his credit file to correct this. PML should also pay Mr H £100 by way of 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Progressive Money Limited to 
refund the interest and charges on Mr Hs loan account and amend his credit file to correct 
this. PML should also pay Mr H £100 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman