DRN-2749271
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that PayPal Europe Sarl and Cie, SCA, compelled her to accept the return 
of an item that she had sold on the basis of the buyers claim that the item was Significantly 
Not as Described.  
What happened
Mrs P sold a Parcel Shelf Load Cover for a Range Rover Velar in December 2020. After 
receiving the item, the buyer contacted Mrs P and requested a return, stating that the item 
was too big for their Range Rover Evoque. Mrs P declined the buyers request on the basis 
that the item had been described correctly at the point of sale and that the buyer had made 
an error in purchasing the item which Mrs P didnt feel that she should bear the cost of.
The buyer approached PayPal and requested a refund for the item under PayPals Buyer 
Protection scheme and raised their request for this refund on the basis that the item was 
Significantly Not as Described. PayPal accepted the buyers claim and, once the item had 
been returned to Mrs B, reimbursed the cost of the item to the buyer from Mrs P.
Mrs P wasnt happy about this, especially considering that her postage costs for sending the 
item to the buyer and the PayPal transaction fees for the sale hadnt been reimbursed to her. 
So, she raised a complaint.
PayPal looked at Mrs Ps complaint, but they were satisfied that the buyer had been entitled 
to a refund under their Buyer Protection scheme, so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs P wasnt satisfied with PayPals response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the item that Mrs P had sold 
was as she had described it, and so they felt that it wasnt fair or reasonable to compel Mrs 
P to accept the return of the item on the basis that it was Significantly Not as Described. So, 
they recommended that the complaint be upheld, and that PayPal should reimburse Mrs P 
the postage costs and PayPal fees that she had incurred, and also make a payment of £30 
to Mrs P for the inconvenience she had experienced.
PayPal didnt accept the view of this complaint put forward by our investigator, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PayPal upheld the buyers claim for a refund under their Buyer Protection scheme on the 
basis that the item sold by Mrs P was Significantly Not as Described. However, having 
completed my review, I cant find any evidence that this was in fact the case. 
Indeed, it appears clear to me from the information provided that the item was accurately 
listed by Miss P as being a Parcel Shelf Load Cover for a Range Rover Velar. And Mrs P 
even included the manufacturer item part number in the sale description.
So, its difficult to conclude that the item was Significantly Not as Described. Indeed, it 
appears that the item was exactly as described. And given that the buyer contacted Mrs P 
after they had received the item and explained that the item was too big for their Range 
Rover Evoque  a completely different model of Range Rover than that which the item was 
described as being for  it appears that the only error that occurred here was that the buyer 
didnt pay sufficient attention to the details of the item that they bought from Mrs P.
PayPals user agreement states that an item can be considered as being Significantly Not 
as Described if The item was properly described but did not meet your [buyers] 
expectations.
However, Im not convinced that the above statement is broad enough to cover a buyers 
expectations when its clear that the buyer has made a mistake and hasnt understood 
correctly the nature of the item that they were buying, so that their expectations of the item 
are founded on a mistake that they themselves have made  such as is the case in this 
instance. 
Ultimately, its difficult to see what Mrs P did wrong here. She listed the item correctly and 
provided all the information necessary for any potential buyer to understand exactly what 
they were buying. And it follows from this that it doesnt feel fair or reasonable to expect Mrs 
P to bear the cost of postage and fees because of a misunderstanding made by a buyer who 
didnt pay due care and attention to the clear and accurate information that Mrs P provided 
when describing the item.
All of which means that I dont feel that it was fair that PayPal compelled Mrs P to accept the 
return of the item on the basis that it was Significantly Not as Described, and I will be 
upholding this complaint on the basis previously recommended by our investigator.
Putting things right
PayPal must reimburse Mrs P the postage costs and PayPal fees that Mrs P incurred for the 
original transaction.
PayPal must also make a payment of £30 to Mrs P to compensate her for the inconvenience 
she has incurred.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against PayPal Europe Sarl and Cie, SCA, 
on the basis described above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman