DRN-1555260
 
The complaint
Ms P complains that her direct debit payment to Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as 
Tesco Bank) failed and that the bank reduced her credit limit without warning. 
What happened
Ms P had a direct debit set up to pay the minimum payments on her Tesco Bank credit card. 
But Ms P hadn't used her card for some time, so the direct debit fell dormant and was 
removed from her paying bank account. 
When Ms P used her card again, Tesco Bank wasn't able to collect the direct debit payment. 
It issued a late payment fee (which it later refunded) and reduced Ms P's credit limit.
When Ms P complained, Tesco Bank accepted its statements had said it would collect Ms 
P's minimum payments by direct debit. But this wasn't possible because the direct debit had 
become dormant. Tesco Bank paid £100 by way of an apology.
Tesco Bank considered it had acted fairly when it reduced Ms P's credit limit. It said it could 
review the limit if Ms P was willing to have her circumstances reassessed. 
Our investigator recommended Ms P's complaint should be upheld in part. As Ms P's credit 
card hadn't been in regular use for some time, the investigator didn't think it was 
unreasonable for the bank to reassess her circumstances before reinstating her previous 
credit limit.
But the investigator considered it unlikely Ms P would've needed a reassessment if 
Tesco Bank had made her aware of the problem with her direct debit. She said Tesco Bank 
should pay a further £75 for the inconvenience caused.
Tesco Bank didn't agree with the increased compensation suggested by the investigator. It 
referred to another decision by this service which it considered had similar circumstances, 
and where a lower amount of compensation was paid. Tesco Bank asked for Ms P's 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've noted everything Tesco Bank has said about why it considers total compensation of 
£175 is too much. I've also considered the other decision by this service that 
Tesco Bank refers to. 
But I note that in that case, Tesco Bank was the party responsible for paying the direct debit. 
In Ms P's case it was the party responsible for collecting the direct debit. So I don't think I 
can safely say that the circumstances in both cases are the same. As such, I'm not persuaded that it's necessary for me to follow the outcome in the other complaint for the 
purpose of reaching conclusions on Ms P's complaint.
Ms P's direct debit became dormant because she hadn't used her credit card for over a year. 
I accept that on a strict interpretation of the direct debit rules, it wasn't Tesco Bank's 
responsibility to tell Ms P that her direct debit was no longer active.
But Tesco Bank's statements said it would collect Ms P's minimum payments by direct debit. 
So I don't think it was unreasonable for Ms P to expect that her payments would be cleared 
by Tesco in that way. In its submissions to this service, Tesco Bank said it also considered it 
should've highlighted the direct debit dormancy issue to Ms P. It paid £100 to Ms P as an 
apology for the direct debit problems she'd experienced.
Ms P's failed payment meant Tesco Bank reduced her credit limit. Keeping in mind that Ms P 
hasn't used her card regularly for some time, I don't think it's unreasonable for the bank to 
reassess her circumstances to decide whether her previous limit should be reinstated.
But I also think that if Tesco Bank had made Ms P aware of the problem with her direct debit, 
it's unlikely she would've needed a reassessment. So I agree with the investigator that 
compensation should be increased to take account of the inconvenience caused. In the 
circumstances, I don't consider an increase of £75 to be excessive. 
Putting things right
Tesco Bank should pay £75 to Ms P, in addition to the £100 it has already paid. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
(trading as Tesco Bank) to pay £75 to Ms P in addition to the £100 it has already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman