DRN-3708886
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to process a chargeback for 
him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators view. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Barclays, its administered by Visa and they 
set the rules. Barclays didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice 
for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
The VISA chargeback rules explain that where a consumer is claiming items are counterfeit, 
as is the case with the phone Mr D purchased, the consumer will need to provide evidence 
of that such as evidence from an expert.
Barclays have sent us a copy of a letter they sent to Mr D asking him to provide that 
evidence. The letter was sent on 28 September 2021 and Barclays have provided their 
system screenshots that demonstrate the letter was sent and to the correct address (the one 
we have on file for Mr D). Whilst I understand that Mr D says he didnt receive that letter I am 
persuaded, on balance, that its more likely than not that the letter was sent as I find the 
system information from Barclays comprehensive and compelling.
Barclays had returned the disputed transaction money to Mr Ds account when he raised his 
chargeback request on 15 September 2021, but when they didnt receive a response 
detailing the information required to defend the merchants request for repayment of the 
funds, they couldnt proceed. I dont think that was unreasonable and I can see that in 
Barclays letter to Mr D of 28 September 2021 they had explained theyd need evidence 
within 7 days. 
It's for those reasons that I dont think Barclays were unreasonable not to proceed with the 
chargeback. The VISA rules dont allow Barclays to reissue a chargeback claim but Mr D 
can still take his claim against the merchant to court should he wish to and if he feels that is 
viable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman