DRN-2654487
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in connection 
with a motor insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against an insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm. In our final decision we name that firm but we 
dont identify any other company or person.
Where I refer to Aviva, I include repairers and others insofar as I hold Aviva responsible for 
their actions.
The subject matter of this complaint is a hot hatchback first registered in 2016. Mrs S bought 
it in about May 2018 for about £30,000.00.
For the year from late September 2018, Mrs S insured the car on a comprehensive policy 
with Aviva. She was the policyholder and main driver. The policy also covered her husband 
as a named driver.
In November 2018, Mrs S made a claim to Aviva. She reported that the vehicle had hit a pot-
hole, damaging its front wheels and suspension. Aviva instructed an approved repairer.
In October 2020, Mrs S complained to Aviva that its approved repairer hadnt repaired her 
car properly in 2018.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us in November 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Aviva had treated Mrs S unfairly or unreasonably.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She made the repairer aware that there had been a huge bang and the car needed to 
be thoroughly checked all round. The damage was not just to the front.
Wheel alignments in 2018 were in the red and not within tolerance and nothing was 
done about this.
There is tyre wear at the front and rear.
The original dealership said that 9 tyres in 14,000 miles is just not normal.
A report states that the current issues are likely to be associated with the incident 
that had resulted in the vehicle needing replacement of the front wheels.
2 independent separate garages found every alignment reading was different. But all 
garages said that the rear axle is a fixed axle and cannot be altered.
Mrs S has recently discovered that for the first 1,000 miles the car was a 
demonstrator. 
She could not carry on paying out for the tyres. So she had no option but to trade the 
vehicle in. The dealer valued this vehicle at £15,000.00 which is nearly a £15,000.00 
drop with only 16,500 miles added to the clock. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
By the date the policy started in September 2018, the car was about two years old. Aviva 
was responsible for repair of accident damage occurring in the year after that date but not 
before.
Ive noted the wheel alignment results at the time of Avivas repair in November 2018  and 
the results in 2020. 
Ive also noted the problems Mrs S had with tyres on the car.
In October 2020, Mrs Ss expert reached the following conclusion:
The current issues are unlikely to be the direct result of a manufacturing defect, with 
this rear suspension geometry issues more likely to be associated with the incident 
that resulted in the vehicle needing repairs to the front suspension and the 
replacement of the wheels.
However, Mrs S bears the burden of showing that Aviva did something wrong in 2018. So 
she has to show that in the incident in November 2018, the car suffered damage that Aviva 
failed to identify or properly repair.
Mrs Ss expert recommended the following:
have the suspension geometry fully investigated and all necessary repairs 
undertaken with the most likely requirement being the replacement of the rear 
subframe
Mrs S has provided recent evidence about wheel geometry. But she has fallen short of 
showing damage such as a damaged rear subframe. And she has fallen short of showing 
that any such damage happened in the incident in November 2018  rather than in an earlier 
incident.
So Im not satisfied that Mrs S has shown that in the incident in November 2018, the car 
suffered damage that Aviva failed to identify or properly repair. And I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Aviva to repair such damage.
In any event, Mrs S has now disposed of the car. She hasnt provided enough evidence of 
the estimated cost of repairing damage that Aviva failed to identify or properly repair. And 
she hasnt provided enough evidence of the extent to which the price she received was 
reduced by damage that Aviva failed to identify or properly repair.So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to inspect or repair the car or to pay 
compensation for reduction in the value of the car.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman