DRN-1674370
The complaint
Mrs L says that after she purchased a Buildings and Contents insurance policy on-line using 
One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call), the insurance company declined a claim 
for a ring she lost. Mrs L is unhappy because she feels the information provided to her at the 
time the policy was sold wasnt made clear to her. And that if it had been made clear, she 
would have had sufficient cover for her ring.
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs L completed an on-line proposal form using a price comparison website. 
Mrs L answered several questions online in relation to the policy she wanted to purchase. 
After this, Mrs L paid the premium for the policy to start in May 2019. 
One Call issued the policy document, policy schedule, and statement of fact document on its 
on-line portal, which Mrs L should have had access to, and a letter was sent the same day. 
Mrs L called One Call later in May 2019 to say she couldnt access the portal. This was 
because her date of birth had been entered incorrectly on the proposal form. One Call 
agreed to post a further copy of the documents to her, and records that it posted these to her 
on the following day.
Mrs L again called One Call in early June 2019 to make a claim for a ring she had lost at an 
event away from her home that weekend. One Call told Mrs L that the loss of the ring wasnt 
covered under the policy as she hadnt chosen to insure personal possessions, such as 
jewellery, outside of her home.
Mrs L complained to One Call. She said shed thought she had protection for the ring away 
from her home as it was worth less than £2,500 and requested a copy of the on-line 
proposal document she completed. Mrs L asked One Call to explain why it issued a new 
policy schedule, dated June 2019, when her policy started in May 2019. Mrs L explained that 
she hadnt seen the policy itself, only the policy schedule and the policy booklet.
One Call provided a final response to Mrs Ls complaint and didnt uphold the complaint. It 
provided a screen shot of the on-line section of the proposal form dealing with personal 
possessions. One Call said that Mrs L hadnt chosen to insure her personal possessions 
outside of the home.
One Call explained that when Mrs L contacted its office in June 2019 to tell it she hadnt 
received the insurance documents it issued a new schedule because it had changed Mrs Ls 
date of birth. One Call provided a copy of both schedules to show there had been no 
changes to the policy, other than the date of birth for Mrs L. And explained the policy 
documents were available on the on-line portal.
Mrs L wasnt happy with the final response from One Call, so she brought her complaint to 
this Service.
After the investigator reviewed the evidence provided, she thought that One Call had done 
nothing wrong. Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs L says the on-line process was misleading and she 
thought the policy provided cover for jewellery outside of her home. She says that One Call 
didnt make the policy and statement of facts available for her to review.
I think that One Call took reasonable steps to ensure Mrs L had a copy of the proposal, the 
statement of facts, the schedule and the policy document itself. It put these documents on 
the portal, to which Mrs L should have had access to. And sent a letter to Mrs L in April 2019 
referring her to these documents that were attached. It wouldve been reasonable for Mrs L 
to have either reviewed the documents on-line, or the documents One Call had sent her. 
However, Mrs L didnt contact One Call again until late May 2019, which was four weeks 
after the policy had been put on risk. 
I appreciate that due to an error in the on-line proposal, Mrs L couldnt access the portal 
documents until after she had made her claim. However, the letter in April 2019 referred to 
an attached proposal form and statement of facts and asked Mrs L to check the information 
was accurate. And it asked Mrs L to tell One Call if any changes were required. Mrs L has 
provided a copy of this letter, so it seems reasonable for me to infer that she did receive it 
shortly after it was sent.
I accept Mrs L didnt have access to the electronic documents One Call had uploaded to its 
portal. However, as Mrs L recorded details of her date of birth incorrectly on the proposal, I 
dont think it is reasonable for me to say One Call had done anything wrong here. It is 
unfortunate that Mrs L didnt have access to these documents, but she did have access to 
the letter in April 2019 that referred to the importance of checking the policy statement of 
facts. And she didnt contact One Call until the policy had been in effect for four weeks.
I have seen a copy of the on-line proposal form used by One Call and the key question 
relating to this complaint is Would you like to insure the items you carry with you when 
outside your home? [Include things like mobile phones, tablets, cameras, jewellery or 
handbags]. One Call has provided a screenshot of the answer Mrs L gave to this question. 
Mrs L chose to answer this with No.
The insurance schedule from May 2019, and the one from June 2019 record that Mrs L 
didnt select the additional option for cover. In section 5 they say, Everyday personal 
belongings  option cover available within contents cover. This extension coversitems 
worn or carried on the personal and personal belongings, individually worth less than 
£2,500, against loss or damage whilst outside the home. 
Mrs L believes her ring was covered because it was less than £2,500. And it was covered for 
loss or damage, inside of the home, caused by the events listed in the policy. For items to be 
covered outside of the home, it is usual that additional cover needs to be purchased, 
regardless of the value of the item. However, Mrs L didnt select this optional cover, and the 
only specific item she included within her proposal was a separate ring valued at £8,500. 
Both these documents explained this additional cover wasnt included.I empathise Mrs Ls position as she has lost a ring that has emotional ties and a financial 
worth around £800. However, I must consider whether the proposal process, or what One 
Call did after the proposal, was reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Mrs L feels the question on the on-line proposal form was unclear. However, I am satisfied 
that questions Mrs L completed on the proposal made it clear that to insure jewellery outside 
of the home required an additional level of protection. Mrs L chose not to apply for this cover.
Given the above, Im satisfied One Call Insurance Services Limited hasnt acted unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking One Call 
Insurance Services Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman