DRN-2095408
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly increased his motor insurance 
premium.
Background
In 2018 Mr B rang Aviva asking for an insurance quote. Aviva ran through his details over 
the phone and offered him a policy for roughly £490, which included a £39 fee to protect    
Mr Bs nine years no claims discount (NCD). Mr B bought the policy. Some weeks later 
Aviva wrote to Mr B and told him he needed to pay it a further £77, which he paid. Mr B later 
made a claim on his policy after his car was damaged while parked and unattended. 
In 2019 Aviva wrote to Mr B to offer him to renew his policy. The renewal premium was 
around £957. It said Mr B had zero years NCD. Mr B asked Aviva to explain why his 
premium had increased so much. Aviva said he'd had a claim on the policy which had 
reduced his NCD to zero. It added that it had made a mistake when it had previously 
charged him an extra premium, so it refunded him the extra £77 hed paid.
Mr B didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. At that point Aviva 
identified some errors in its handling of Mr Bs policy, so it offered him £100 compensation to 
address his distress and inconvenience because of that. Our investigator thought that 
response was reasonable. Mr B didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it.
When Mr B first rang Aviva it asked him how many years NCD he had. He said that 
according to a letter from his previous insurer he had one years NCD. He said hed been 
with that insurer since 2001 and had only made one claim. But when Aviva ran through the 
quote it set it up as Mr B having nine years NCD. That was Avivas mistake entirely as Mr B 
didn't tell it he had nine years NCD. It asked Mr B if he wanted to protect those nine years 
NCD and Mr B said that he did. Mr B accepted Avivas quote on that basis and Aviva sent 
him his policy information which told him he had nine years NCD, which was protected. 
Aviva asked Mr B to send it proof of his NCD. Mr B sent Aviva a letter from his previous 
insurer which showed he had one years NCD. So, as he didn't have nine years NCD, Aviva 
recalculated Mr Bs premium and asked him to pay a further £77. Mr B later wrote to Aviva to 
ask it to explain why hed had to pay a further amount. Aviva wrote to him to say it had made 
some changes to his policy. But its letter didnt clearly explain that was because it had 
reduced his NCD from nine years to one. It also didn't explain that it doesn't offer to protect 
one years NCD so had also removed the option of Mr B protecting his NCD. 
So, as far as Mr B was aware he had a policy based on nine years NCD. And that NCD was 
protected so shouldnt have been affected by a claim on his policy. But when Aviva wrote to 
Mr B offering him the option of renewing his policy it said he had zero years NCD. Thats 
because, as his one years NCD wasn't protected, and hed made a claim on his policy, 
Aviva reduced his NCD from one year to zero. But given Mr B didn't realise Aviva had 
reduced his NCD to one year, I can understand why he complained.
When Aviva looked into Mr B's complaint it noticed it had made mistakes. It realised it should 
have refunded the £39 fee it had previously charged Mr B to protect his NCD. So, rather 
than just refunding that sum, it refunded the full £77 it had previously charged Mr B after 
amending the NCD on the policy. And, after he complained to us, it offered a further £100 
compensation in recognition of the impact of its errors.
Given the steep increase in his premium Mr B doesn't think that goes far enough. So I've 
looked very carefully at the amount Aviva charged Mr B to renew his policy. As I've said 
above it was Aviva's mistake initially in recording Mr Bs NCD as nine years, when it should 
have been one. And while Mr B did pay £39 to protect that, Aviva eventually refunded that 
amount together with the rest of the additional premium it had charged. I think that was fair. I 
can understand Mr B was disappointed his NCD had dropped so much and that he could no 
longer protect it. But Mr B had a letter from his former insurers which said he was only 
entitled to one years NCD, not nine. So I think it was reasonable for Aviva to adjust that, 
even though it was its mistake in the first place to give Mr B nine years NCD. Although I 
think it could have done a much better job of explaining what it had done and why.
Then, because Mr B made a claim in the policy year, in line with his policy terms, Aviva 
stepped back Mr Bs NCD entitlement from one year to zero when it offered renewal. And 
that claim affected the premium Aviva charged Mr B at renewal. Thats because all motor 
insurers Im aware of will say that a driver with a recent claim on their policy thats affected 
their NCD will be a higher risk than a driver without such a claim. And insurers like Aviva 
reflect that increased risk in the premiums they offer. In this case Aviva's given us some 
information to show how it calculated Mr Bs premium at renewal. That information is 
commercially sensitive so I can't share it with him. But having looked at it carefully Im 
satisfied that its calculated Mr Bs renewal premium in the same way it would for any other 
customer with similar circumstances. So I don't think the renewal premium Aviva offered him 
was unfair. And I think its worthwhile pointing out that Mr B was under no obligation to 
accept Avivas premium and he could have looked for quotes from other insurers if he didn't 
want to renew with Aviva. But as I've said above it was Avivas mistake in the first place that caused this situation to 
arise. And it didn't initially clearly explain the changes it had made to Mr Bs NCD. But its 
offered Mr B £100 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience arising from 
those mistakes. I think that's a reasonable response in the circumstances. So I'm not going 
to instruct Aviva to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. Unless it has already done so I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr B £100 compensation to address his distress and 
inconvenience. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr B has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on that amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Aviva pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.