DRN-4184340
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vacation Finance Limited (VFL) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with 
claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation 
to the purchase of a holiday product in July 2017. The purchase was in Mr and Mrs Ss 
name but the loan was taken out by Mr S so he is the eligible complainant. For simplicity, in 
this decision I will refer to him as the sole purchaser.
What happened
In July 2017 Mr S purchased a timeshare product from a company I will call A. It cost 
£31,500 and this was funded with a loan from VFL. In October Mr S submitted a letter of 
claim to VFL. He said that the product was sold to him as an investment and it was implied 
by the sales representatives that he would own property. Mr S says he was also told that he 
would be able to rent it out, but this never happened.
He explained that when he visited the resort he was subjected to six hour meetings and 
pressed to upgrade. At these meetings he was told how his investment was increasing in 
value. In May 2020 A went into liquidation and the club was taken over by another company. 
Mr S has told this service that the resale programme was discontinued. Mr S says he had 
intended to make use of the accommodation for a period of time and then sell it. But he 
cannot do that and he has now learned that he does not have ownership, but is member of a 
club. 
He made a claim under s.75 that the product had been misrepresented and there had been 
an unfair relationship under s.140A due to the high pressure sales tactics.
VFL rejected his claim and said it had been given no evidence in support of the allegations. 
It said he had been given all the necessary documentation by A and he had the opportunity 
to cancel the agreement within 14 days, but he had not done so.  VFL also pointed out the 
various documents he had been given and signed all referred to membership and not to 
ownership. It mentioned one reference in the documents to Owners Rewards as referring 
to ownership of membership rewards.
It said Mr S was not obliged to use finance from VFL and could have paid by alternative 
means. It also noted that Mr S had taken out two previous agreements with A and would 
have been aware of how it worked. He had also made use of the 2017 purchase.
Mr S brought a complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said there was insufficient evidence to support the 
claim of misrepresentation and she had not been given anything which showed that Mr S 
had lost and specific rights after the liquidation of A. Nor did she think there was evidence of 
an unfair relationship.
Mr S didnt agree and said he had been shown documentation at the time of sale which 
showed how his investment would increase in value, but he had not been given a copy of 
these.  He said he had been promised that a re-sale branch would be available but now he 
cannot sell the membership.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why.
S.75 CCA
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr S) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (VFL) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
Its important to note that, as VFL was the lender rather than the supplier, under the Act a 
claim is limited to one for misrepresentation or breach of contract, rather than general 
unhappiness with what was available under the contract.
On the matter of misrepresentation I have seen no evidence of this. A misrepresentation is 
when a false statement of fact has been made and that false statement of fact induced a 
consumer to purchase the goods or services. In order to find a misrepresentation has 
occurred, there must be proof that a false statement of fact has been made and it needs to 
be decided that that false statement induced the consumer to enter into the agreement.
If I accept that Mr S was told that A had a re-sale branch and this was true, but its ceased to 
operate after the liquidation that is not misrepresentation. From what he has told this service 
it would appear this option was available at the time the sale was made and so I cannot see 
how letting him know there was such a branch could be misrepresentation. What he says he 
was told was apparently accurate.
However, I have seen no evidence that the membership was sold as an investment or that 
he owned any property as a result of his purchase. Even if A offered a re-sales facility for 
membership it does not demonstrate that the product was sold as an investment. I have not 
been given all the sales documentation, but nothing I have been given shows the product was sold as an investment. Nor can I see, apart from one reference, that it was suggested 
that he owned property.
In addition, I am aware of the standard documents used by A for this type of product does 
not describe it as an investment which can be resold. I appreciate that these sales meetings 
can last for some time, as Mr S has said, and the sales representatives will put the best 
gloss on the product. However, that alone does not necessarily amount to 
misrepresentation.
On the matter of breach of contract, I have not been given evidence of any breach. The 
event which apparently led to Mr Ss claim was the liquidation of A. However, the club has 
been taken over and the facilities are being operated as before. Mr S says he can no longer 
sell the membership, but as I have said I have seen no evidence that he signed up to an 
agreement that promised a re-sale option. I have taken due note of his testimony and of 
VFLs rebuttal. As such I have to give due weight to the documentary material and I have 
seen nothing in that which would allow me to uphold this complaint. 
Quite simply I cannot conclude from the evidence that the liquidation of A caused a breach 
of contract.
The S.140A Claims for an Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr S and VFL were 
unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it applies 
to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and Mr Ss claim was made in 
time.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr S could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against VFL anyway.
Mr Ss alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to him personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that VFL assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly  over and above ensuring that Mr S could afford to repay 
what he was borrowing. As such I do not see that a claim under s.140A would succeed.
For the above reasons I do not consider I can ask VFL to do anything in respect of Mr Ss 
claims.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman