DRN-1959238
The complaint
X complains about repairs carried out by National House-Building Council (NHBC) under his 
buildings warranty.
What happened
X has a buildings warranty with NHBC which covers his home. The warranty was taken out 
in 2014. X took it over in 2019 after he bought the house.
X contacted NHBC when he was having trouble with his downstairs toilet, which wasnt 
flushing properly. 
NHBC carried out an inspection and found that the drainage pipes from the downstairs toilet 
werent installed correctly. And on that basis, they accepted Xs claim and arranged for 
contractors to carry out the necessary repairs.
X says that whilst the work was being carried out, the contractors appointed by NHBC 
contacted him to say they would need to dig through the tarmac driveway immediately 
outside his home to correct the problem with the pipes.
X says he agreed to this on the basis that the driveway would be properly restored 
afterwards.
When the work on the pipes was finished, the contractors asked X to decide about how hed 
like his driveway repaired.
After some discussion, NHBC have offered to: fill the holes with tarmac; put paving slabs 
over the affected area; put paviours over the area; or give X a cash settlement to have the 
repairs carried out himself.
X wasnt happy with any of those options. He says NHBC should restore the drive to the 
state it was in before the work was carried out. Hes been told by the contractors that if they 
fill the holes with new tarmac, this wont completely match the existing tarmac in the drive, 
which has weathered over a number of years.
X believes this will affect the price of his house, which he says hes intending to sell. So, he 
complained to NHBC asking them to replace the whole of his drive with a new tarmac 
surface.
NHBC didnt uphold Xs complaint. They continued to offer the options theyd previously 
offered for the repairs. So, X brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think NHBC had done anything wrong.
X disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its worth just clarifying at the outset that theres no dispute here that X made an appropriate 
claim under the warranty and that NHBC accepted it and dealt with it. The drainage pipes 
are fixed, the toilet flushes. 
The issue is entirely about the way in which NHBC are proposing to finish the job  by filling 
in the holes dug in Xs drive to enable the repairs to be carried out. 
I think its also important to be clear that the contractors view was that it was necessary to 
dig the holes in the drive to carry out the repairs to the drainage pipes. And I cant see any 
reason or evidence to contradict their view.
X says he agreed to the work only on condition that the drive would be restored to its former 
appearance. I think theres a degree of subjectivity in what that might mean. Im reasonably 
sure the contractors wouldnt have agreed to re-surface the whole drive. But in any case, I 
think if X hadnt agreed to the excavations in the drive, hed still have a non-working 
downstairs toilet. 
So, the issue I have to consider is whether NHBC are obliged, under the terms of the 
warranty and in all fairness, to replace Xs drive entirely  so that, in effect, it appears as if 
the repair work had never happened.
I can see Xs point of view. He bought a relatively new house, with a warranty which 
essentially covers failures by the builder to comply with certain building standards. The 
builder failed to comply with those standards by fitting defective drainage. Thats been 
resolved, but the result is that the aesthetic appearance of his property has been affected  
and that might affect the sell-on price.
I know this will disappoint X, but I dont think NHBC have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
the way theyve offered to repair the drive, bearing in mind the terms and intent of the 
warranty. 
Ill explain why, but its worth mentioning first that I have to bear in mind that NHBC didnt sell 
the warranty to X. He inherited it when he bought the house. So, theres no issue here 
about X being deceived or mis-led by NHBC about what the warranty does.
Taken as a whole, I think the intent of the warranty is clearly set out in the policy 
documentation. Its clear (at Section 3) NHBC will cover physical damage caused by defects 
in the building of certain structural parts of the home. Those parts include underground 
drainage, which is why Xs claim was accepted.
NHBC have done that in this case. The damage was the non-working toilet and pipes. It was 
caused by poor installation of the drainage pipes. Its been put right by NHBC. Theyve met 
their obligations under the warranty.
The policy is also clear that NHBC arent intending to cover issues with the aesthetic 
appearance of the property. It says the customer cant claim for:
.. changes in the colour, or texture of, or staining to, external features.And it says NHBC will not pay:
 to replace an undamaged item because a replacement does not match the 
undamaged item in appearance.
Im aware the drive wasnt the part of the property that suffered the damage which NHBC 
covered  that was the drainage pipes. The drive has been impacted by the repair itself, not 
the original building defect. So, the policy terms quoted above arent directly applicable in 
this situation.
However, I think they do give a clear indication of the intent of the policy and what NHBC are 
obliged to do under its terms. In short, they undertake to repair damage resulting from the 
structure of your house not being soundly built. 
But what they wont do is guarantee the aesthetic appearance of the property. And  by 
implication at least  its clear NHBC wouldnt intend to guarantee that any repairs are 
essentially invisible.
As an example, I dont think anyone, having read those policy terms  would expect NHBC 
to replace a whole roof just because a few tiles needed replacing and the replacements 
couldnt be made to match the remaining tiles.
I dont think its unreasonable, in that context, for NHBC to tell X that they wont be replacing 
the whole of his drive in order to make the repair work invisible.
I know X is concerned about the possible impact on the value of his house. 
I would imagine thats very marginal, at worst. But I also take into account the fact that the 
warranty documentation is again clear that NHBC wont cover any reduction in the value of 
the property as a direct or indirect consequence of the defects in the original build (this is 
covered in the section entitled Things Buildmark does not protect you against).
Im also satisfied that NHBC have offered X a number of possible options for repair of the 
holes in the drive. Theyve been clear that replacing the tarmac will result in a mis-match 
(which will however fade with weathering) and so have offered to pave the affected area 
(with slabs or paviours). Theyve also offered a cash settlement so that X can deal with the 
drive in the way he chooses.
In short, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask NHBC to replace the whole drive. 
And Im satisfied that theyve attempted to offer X every option short of that to maintain the 
appearance of his house.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman