DRN-3196786
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the service hes received from Barclays Bank UK PLC surrounding a 
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) he made.
What happened
Mr L made a DSAR to Barclays, but Barclays sent the initial response to an incorrect 
address. Barclays then sent a second response to Mr Ls correct address, but didnt include 
all the information that they held on Mr L. Following this, Barclays sent an updated response, 
including further information that they held on Mr L, but Mr L felt that Barclays continued to 
withhold information from their DSAR response and that not all of the information and 
documents that Barclays held pertaining to him were being provided by them. 
Mr L wasnt happy about what had happened and felt that Barclays were in beach of data 
protection regulations. So, he raised a complaint. Barclays looked at Mr Ls complaint. They 
acknowledged theyd sent their first response to an incorrect address, and that their second 
response hadnt included all the information it should have, and Barclays apologised to Mr L 
for this and offered a payment of £500 to Mr L as compensation for what had taken place. 
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They explained that it wasnt within the 
remit of this service to determine whether there had been breaches of data protection 
regulations or not and referred Mr L to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) as the 
body to whom such complaints should be directed
Our investigator also explained that they were able to consider the impact that Barclays 
sending the first DSAR response to an incorrect address had had on Mr L, but that they felt 
that the £500 that Barclays had already offered to Mr L already represented a fair and 
reasonable response to this aspect of Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I feel that its important to first confirm the scope of what I can consider in 
response to Mr Ls complaint. For instance, in his correspondence with this service, Mr L has 
referred to events that took place several years ago which werent considered by Barclays in 
their response to Mr Ls complaint which provided Mr L with the right to refer his complaint to 
this service. 
This service can only consider complaint points which the respondent business has already 
had the opportunity to consider and respond to. As such, I can only consider the complaint 
about the three DSARs and Mr Ls continuing dissatisfaction with the information hes been 
provided resultant from those.
Additionally, some of the above listed aspects of Mr Ls complaint involve what Mr L feels 
are data protection breaches, and I note that Barclays themselves confirm that they have 
recorded a personal data breach in their response to Mr Ls complaint. 
However, as our investigator explained previously to Mr L, it isnt within the remit of this 
service to determine whether breaches in data protection regulations have or havent 
occurred. Instead, we can look at whats happened in the circumstances of this individual 
complaint and decide whats fair and reasonable. 
Mr L has had to make a number of different requests for the information he wants, and its 
evident that there have been problems with how Barclays dealt with those requests. So, I 
can appreciate why Mr Ls trust in Barclays to fulfil the DSAR correctly and completely has 
been affected. 
However, as things stand, I think that Barclays have done as much as they can to deal with 
the situation here. I say this because theyve acknowledged the issues with the previous 
requests, offered to compensate Mr L for the upset and inconvenience caused, and 
confirmed that theyve sent Mr L all the information that they hold.
Barclays arent required to retain information and documents indefinitely, meaning that some 
historical information and documents which Mr L feels Barclays should possess but which 
havent been submitted to him may have been purged and destroyed because of the passing 
of time. Thats a reasonable explanation as to why the records may not be as complete as 
Mr L would like  and its also in line with what the relevant rules and laws say about 
retaining data.
If Mr L wishes to pursue the aspects of his complaint relating to potential breaches of data 
protection regulations, I can only refer Mr L once again to the ICO, who I understand Mr L 
has already contacted.
All of which means that the aspects of Mr Ls complaint that this service can consider are 
limited to the impact that Barclays sending the first DSAR response to an incorrect address, 
and then sending the second DSAR response without the full suite of documents and 
information, has had on Mr L. 
While I acknowledge that Mr L may have incurred significant upset and inconvenience 
because of these points, I do feel that the £500 that Barclays have offered Mr L already 
represents fair and reasonable compensation for these aspects of his complaint. I can also 
confirm to Mr L that that amount of £500 is in line with what I would have instructed Barclays 
to pay to Mr L, had they not already offered to do so.
While I realise this wont be the outcome Mr L was wanting, it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action in regard to the 
aspects of Mr Ls complaint which its within the remit of this service to consider. I hope that 
Mr L will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman