DRN-3039875
The complaint
Miss K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC declined her claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In August 2020 Miss K entered into a contract with a merchant to sell her property and made 
a payment of £1598.00 using her Lloyds Bank credit card.
A survey was carried out on Miss Ks property and a valuation was provided. Miss K says 
the valuation had mistakes in it and valued her property too low. She complained to the 
valuer but was unable to resolve matters.
Miss K says she had to instruct a different valuer to carry out the survey and that he valued 
the property at a figure close to what it ultimately sold for.
Miss K says that the first valuation wasnt carried out properly. She raised a section 75 claim 
with Lloyds seeking a refund of the fee shed had to pay for the second valuation. 
Lloyds reviewed the claim and said it didnt think there were grounds for a chargeback 
because the valuation service had been provided to Miss K, albeit that she disputed the vale 
which the valuer had placed on her property. Lloyds also said that in relation to section 75, it 
didnt think there was evidence that there had been a breach of contract.
Miss K wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Lloyds had considered the 
chargeback claim fairly, and that there was no evidence to suggest that there had been a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Miss K didnt agree. She said the valuation wasnt fit for purpose and that shed had to obtain 
another valuation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
When something goes wrong and payment has been made in part or in full with a credit 
card, it might be possible to recover the money paid via a chargeback. Chargeback is the 
process by which payment disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants. 
What this means is that Lloyds can, in some circumstances, ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if theres a problem with goods or services supplied by the merchant. But there 
have to be grounds to proceed with a chargeback.
Ive looked at the available evidence to see whether there was a problem with the valuation. 
Miss K has said that shed already obtained other valuations of between £430,000-£460,000 
and didnt agree with the valuation of £400,000. Ive reviewed the valuers terms and 
conditions. These say that Miss K can cancel the survey at any time before the day of 
inspection, and any fees paid for the inspection will be refunded. The terms and conditions 
also say that if the valuation is cancelled after the survey has been carried out but before the 
valuation was issued, the valuation agents can raise an invoice for 80% of the agreed fee.
In this case, I can see that the valuation was carried out and a home report provided. I 
appreciate that Miss K didnt agree with the valuation figure, but there isnt enough evidence 
for me to say that theres been a breach of contract. Miss K received the service she 
contracted for. The fact that the valuation differed from other valuations shed obtained 
doesnt mean that there was something wrong with the valuation. Its often the case that 
valuers will give different valuations in respect of the same property. This doesnt mean that 
the valuation is wrong, or that theres been a breach of contract. Taking all of this into 
consideration, I dont think that Lloyds declined the chargeback claim unfairly.
Section 75
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Miss Ks complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation, and that Lloyds response to the claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and services must be 
carried out with reasonable care and skill. Ive thought about whether the valuation fell below 
the standard expected but as Ive said above, valuations can vary within quite a wide range 
and I dont think theres enough evidence her for me to safely conclude that the valuation fell 
below the standard expected. Further, and even though I understand that Miss K was 
frustrated by the valuation because she considered it to be too low, I cant see that this 
negatively impacted her because the property ultimately sold for the amount she had hoped 
it would.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that theres been a breach of contract 
here. Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that Lloyds has declined the section 75 
claim unfairly.
.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman