DRN-3521101
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC handled her fraud claims after she was 
the victim of two investment scams.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in detail. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mrs A began investing with T at the end of April 2020. And then separately with M at the 
beginning of May 2020. Unfortunately both these investments turned out to be a scam. She 
sent payments via debit card to M and T and also by international transfer to T.
Barclays didnt uphold Mrs As complaint and neither did our investigator. So Mrs A asked for 
an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered whether Barclays ought to have stopped any of the payments Mrs A 
made to these scams and spoken to her about what she was doing. But looking at her 
account activity, I dont agree any of the payments were that unusual or out of character that 
it did need to intervene. You can see from Mrs As statements that she has previously 
invested and also that she had large sums coming in and going out of her account. And she 
was investing with two other firms who were regulated abroad at the time she began the 
above investments. So based on her other account activity I dont consider Barclays ought to 
have blocked these transactions or intervened on Mrs As payments. 
Ive then considered chargeback rights for the debit card payments. As our investigator has 
set out, to make a successful claim under chargeback Mrs A needed to have certain 
evidence. Chargeback claims cant be made for fraudulent activities  they are made on the 
basis that a genuine agreement has been made and a genuine service has been paid for, 
but then has not been received. And Mrs A needs to have directly paid the party she didnt 
receive the service from with her card, so M or T. I appreciate Mrs A has paid different 
companies as part of these two scams and due to the unusual names and time passed its 
not clear if she would be able to directly link any of them to M and T. If she couldnt then a 
chargeback wouldnt be successful, as she wouldnt be claiming it against the right party. If 
she had been able to do this, there are then other steps she wouldve needed to follow.
Under the rules that apply for this case, the only grounds Mrs A can make a chargeback 
claim for an investment opportunity is if she had tried to withdraw an available balance and 
this hasnt been processed by the investment firm. The rules state that the consumer must 
evidence this with confirmation of their available balance and evidence of a withdrawal 
request for equal to or less than this amount, all dated to evidence the withdrawal was done 
at a time when that amount was available.
I can see Mrs A did ask to withdraw funds from M in May 2020. But the emails alone arent 
enough to meet the above requirements for a chargeback claim. The emails dont say how 
much she tried to withdraw, or evidence she had this amount available to her. Ive reviewed 
all the screenshots Mrs A did take and I can see she has provided screenshots of her 
account showing her balance. But these dont meet the above requirements as they arent 
dated. And in any event from the transactions showing, I can see the screenshots are from 
much later than 12 May 2020, whereas the two things need to be dated the same day. Also, 
as per her own emails, by the time she did realise this was a scam a large amount of her 
money had been lost. So Im satisfied that she wasnt able to evidence what was needed for 
Barclays to make a successful chargeback claim against M. 
In relation to T, Mrs A hasnt suggested she tried to withdraw from it until mid-June and two 
days after this her access to the account was temporarily removed. When she regained 
access, she discovered trades had been made and her account was ultimately drained by T. 
While I can see that Mrs A did then request for her funds to be refunded to her, this wouldnt 
meet the chargeback criteria as shes asking for a refund, not to withdraw an amount that is 
actually available on her account. And again she hasnt got the required evidential 
screenshots of the account and her withdrawal request, in order to meet the criteria required 
to attempt a claim. So I also dont think Barclays was wrong not to pursue a chargeback 
claim against T either.
Ive then considered the international transfers and I can see Barclays did try and recover 
this money from the account the funds were sent to. However no funds remained, so it 
wasnt able to return any of these to Mrs A. On that basis I cant agree Barclays needs to 
reimburse Mrs A for any of the payments she made to these scams.
Mrs A has raised concerns over how Barclays dealt with her complaint and the service she 
received. But complaints handling in itself isnt a regulated activity, so we cant award 
compensation for how Barclays dealt with Mrs A.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman