DRN-4404022
The complaint
Mr H complains that Evolution Lending Limited irresponsibly lent him a second charge 
mortgage (secured loan).
What happened
In 2019, Mr H took out a second charge mortgage with Evolution. He borrowed money to 
consolidate and repay existing debts elsewhere. He borrowed around £14,000 including fees 
over a term of ten years at an interest rate of around 27%, giving a monthly payment of 
around £300. Around £11,000 of unsecured debt  a mixture of loans and credit cards  was 
included in the loan.
In 2022, Mr H complained. He said that the lending was irresponsible and unaffordable, and 
he should never have been given the mortgage. Evolution didnt agree. It said that it had 
checked his income and expenditure, and the lending was affordable. It significantly 
improved Mr Hs circumstances because his monthly expenditure on the debts consolidated 
into the mortgage reduced from around £960 to the £300 payable on this loan. It said that 
since taking out the loan Mr H had never been in arrears, which did not suggest it was 
unaffordable for him. Evolution said it had more recently been contacted by an insolvency 
practitioner because Mr H was planning to enter into an individual voluntary arrangement 
(IVA)  but it appeared this was because Mr H had taken out further finance since this loan, 
and Evolution wasnt responsible for that.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She said that Evolution had 
carried out a reasonable assessment of Mr Hs circumstances, and he had in fact been able 
to maintain payments on the loan. Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint.
My provisional decision
I took a different view, concluding that the complaint should be upheld. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
As the lender, Evolution is required to consider whether it is responsible to lend. This 
includes considering whether it is affordable  and whether it is sustainable for Mr H.
Evolution carried out an assessment of Mr Hs income and expenditure. Ive reviewed 
the information it took into account, and I have some concerns about whether the 
loan really was affordable for Mr H.
Evolution recorded his income as being around £2,275 per month, and his 
expenditure  excluding the debts to be consolidated into this loan  as being around 
£1,950 per month. This left around £325 per month surplus, which led Evolution to 
conclude the loan was affordable.
However, affordability should be considered not just at the moment of lending, but 
throughout the term. The monthly payment on this loan was around £300  which 
took virtually all Mr Hs surplus income. But the interest rate was variable, meaning it 
could increase in the future, and there was little surplus expenditure to absorb that.
Thats a particular issue in my view in this case, because part of the income 
Evolution took into account, alongside Mr Hs salary, came from child benefit and 
child tax credit.
Mr H says Evolution shouldnt have taken this into account, because the children 
were his step-children not his natural children. I dont think that makes a difference, 
since they were part of his household and his family. I think the difficulty arises from 
the ages of the children  at the time of the lending, they were aged four, 14 and 17. 
The loan was over a ten year term, meaning that up to a third of Mr Hs income would 
no longer be available by the end of the term.
Evolution said it explored this with Mr H, and he said he had another property which 
he might rent out to replace this income. But he also said that the property was 
currently vacant and then would be occupied by a family member, not rented out. 
There was no consideration of whether it was practical or plausible for Mr H to rent 
this property out at some time in the future, when that might be, or how much rental 
income it might generate. Im not persuaded that this was something Evolution ought 
to have assumed was definitely in place or sufficient to replace the lost benefit 
income as the children reached the age of 18.
I think Evolution ought also to have been concerned about Mr Hs credit history. It 
had a copy of his credit record, which Ive also seen. It shows a long history of taking 
out short term lending, payday loans and other forms of credit. That included several 
loans taken out in the year before this application.
This application was the third time Mr H had taken out a secured loan with Evolution 
in eight years  the first was consolidated into the second, and the second was paid 
off very shortly before Mr H applied for this loan.
Since taking out the second Evolution loan in 2014, Mr H had defaulted on a series of 
debts in 2015. Some of those defaults  with a combined value of almost £5,000  
were still not settled at the time of this application. Mr H told Evolution he hadnt been 
contacted by those lenders and wasnt intending to contact them. But he could have 
been subject to debt collection action at any time.
And since the 2015 defaults, from 2017 onwards, Mr H had begun to build up 
unsecured credit again, leading to this application for a further consolidation loan.
I think this ought to have led Evolution to question whether a further debt 
consolidation loan was sustainable for Mr H. Evolution says that it substantially 
reduced his monthly outgoings, and thats true (though as Ive said above there are 
concerns about whether even this lower amount really was affordable for him over 
the whole term). But it also secured those debts to his property at a relatively high 
interest rate. I think, given the history, that Evolution ought to have been concerned 
about whether the pattern of consolidating debt then running it up again would be 
repeated  and whether, as a result, repaying this loan would be sustainable for Mr 
H.
Evolution says that Mr H didnt in fact miss any payments after the loan was taken 
out. And thats correct. But Mr H did go on to run up further unsecured debt, leading 
to an IVA in 2022  suggesting that the pattern did in fact recur. I dont think the fact 
that Mr H hasnt missed a payment in the first three years of the loan necessarily means that it was sustainable for him over the term; while he has so far prioritised his 
secured debts, his unsecured debts had reached the point at which he could no 
longer sustain them and if the IVA didnt resolve matters there would be a risk to the 
secured loan too.
Clearly Evolution couldnt have known specifically what would happen at the time it 
lent in 2019. But  having considered Mr Hs credit file  it ought to have been 
concerned that he had an unsustainable relationship with debt, some of which was 
now being secured to his property by this loan. If similar patterns of securing 
unsecured debt to an Evolution loan, then running up further unsecured debt and 
either defaulting on it or consolidating it again, were to be repeated, that could mean 
Mr H might run into difficulties managing this loan too.
Taking all of that into account, I think there was enough to say that Evolution ought to 
have considered that there was a substantial risk that this loan wouldnt be affordable 
or sustainable for Mr H throughout its term. And in light of that I dont think it ought, 
acting fairly and responsibly, to have lent.
To put things right, Evolution should remove all interest, and the fees it charged, from 
the loan balance. It should treat all payments Mr H has made to date as being 
repayments of capital. It should then re-calculate the outstanding balance and reach 
a sustainable arrangement with Mr H for the repayment of the remaining outstanding 
capital balance. It should also remove any adverse entries associated with this loan 
from Mr Hs credit file.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr H said that hed already repaid more than the original capital hed borrowed, and that 
should be refunded to him.
Evolution didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld. It said:
It carried out a full affordability assessment, including stress test, and concluded the 
loan was affordable for Mr H. It said his disposable income  even after allowing for 
discretionary expenditure and a contingency allowance for the outstanding defaulted 
debts  was higher than Id noted in my provisional decision. 
It noted that the benefit income wouldnt be available to Mr H for the full term, but 
discussed this with him and Mr H confirmed he would be renting out his property. It 
therefore gave proper consideration to affordability throughout the term, and was 
entitled to rely on what Mr H had said. Its likely rental income would exceed the lost 
benefit income. 
Mr H had cleared most of the defaults from 2015, and only three remained 
outstanding. Evolution agreed that Mr H could have been subject to collection action 
at any time, and it allowed for payments to these creditors in its affordability 
assessment.
While Evolution accepted that Mr H had a history of short-term lending, it discussed 
this with him at the time of the application, and he gave plausible answers. 
Evolutions business model involves lending to customers with poor credit history and 
just because someone has a poor past history, that doesnt mean they will struggle to 
manage their commitments in the future. If Evolution assumed that, it would be 
unable to lend and that would create financial exclusion. It fully considered Mr Hs circumstances, and the loan cleared Mr Hs outstanding 
debts, which benefitted him. If Mr H went on to take out further credit, Evolution is not 
responsible for that or the consequences which followed. Mr H had maintained 
payments in full throughout the period between the start of the loan and his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further arguments Evolution has made, but I havent changed my mind. 
The figures for affordability I quoted in my provisional decision were taken from the income 
and expenditure assessment Evolution carried out at the time, so I think its reasonable to 
take them as the basis for considering whether the loan was affordable. 
Its correct that, when asked about his future income, Mr H said he could rent out the other 
property to replace the income lost from benefits as the children passed the age of 18. 
Evolution was required to take into account the future reductions in income as part of its 
affordability assessment. And while it could have taken into account future increases too, I 
think to do so there needs to be an assessment of the amount and credibility of that future 
income. I dont think a vague suggestion that Mr H might be able to rent out a property  
currently occupied by family members  at some point in the future without consideration of 
how likely that was or how much income it might generate  is sufficient to be relied on as 
good evidence of future income replacing the lost benefits.
Im not persuaded that lending as a form of financial inclusion is something relevant for me 
to take into account. Whatever Evolutions business model or risk appetite, its required to 
lend responsibly and I think thats the key consideration. 
Responsible lending doesnt just require an assessment of affordability; its also about 
whether the loan will be sustainable. And while Evolution isnt responsible for Mr Hs 
decision to take out further credit after consolidating his debts into this loan, I do think his 
patterns of doing so in the past were something that Evolution ought to have taken into 
account. To my mind, that suggests theres an increased risk that Mr H will fall back into the 
same patterns. As a responsible lender acting fairly, Id expect Evolution to take into account 
whether further debt consolidation into this loan is likely to put Mr H into a position where his 
overall indebtedness increases to an unsustainable level. This is not just a question of Mr H 
making unwise decisions; if it was foreseeable that he might do so and that would impact the 
sustainability of this loan, that is something Evolution ought to have considered.  
For all those reasons, and the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I remain of the view 
that this complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Evolution should remove all interest, and the fees it charged, from the 
loan balance. It should treat all payments Mr H has made to date as being repayments of 
capital. It should then re-calculate the outstanding balance.
If this results in a balance outstanding, Evolution should reach a sustainable arrangement 
with Mr H for the repayment of the remaining outstanding capital balance. If, however, this 
means that Mr H has already repaid more than the capital he borrowed, the excess should 
be refunded to him, adding simple annual interest of 8% running from when any payments 
above the total capital amount were made to the date Evolution refunds them. In this scenario, Evolution may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award, as 
required by HMRC  but should tell Mr H what it has deducted so he can reclaim the tax if he 
is entitled to do so.
Evolution should also remove any adverse entries associated with this loan from Mr Hs 
credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Evolution Lending Limited to put 
matters right in the way Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman