DRN-2776411
The complaint
Mrs S complained that Bank of Scotland (BoS) wrongly recommended two life and critical
illness policies in 2012. She subsequently said she only wanted the policy designed to
protect a personal loan to be considered which she believed was a form of PPI.
What happened
BoS recommended an 11-year life and critical illness policy with a sum assured of £8,177 for
a monthly premium of £15.50. This covered Mrs S until her projected retirement of 65. She
has now chosen not to pursue a complaint about this policy.
She was also sold an additional level term, life and critical illness policy with a term of five
years, costing £7.50 a month for £3,000 of cover. This was to protect a three-year personal
loan of £3,000 BoS was offering. In the suitability letter, BoS recognised this policy ran two
years past the loan but said she could cancel it at that point.
An investigator at this service did not feel Mrs S complaint should be upheld, noting:
This policy was not a form of PPI, as Mrs S believed, and felt it was suitable as 
protection for the loan she was taking out
The two policies offered protection for differing terms and for differing reasons, and 
the £3 policy fee was deducted as she was taking out both policies; the total cost 
therefore being £20
Mrs S did not agree, and said:
She simply wanted a loan to cover some expenses
BoS masked this Payment Protection Insurance via another name; it is still unfair
She had no partner and no dependents (her child being independent)
In a Provisional Decision, I said:
In order to assess the suitability of this advice, it is important to fully understand Mrs Ss
overall circumstances, something I am not satisfied that the advisor did.
Firstly, Mrs S did not seek advice about life insurance but was referred to the advisor by the
BoS member of staff who approved her £3,000 personal loan. She had a modest salary and,
according to the advisor, had under £40 a week in disposable income taking account of rent,
essential items and monthly repayments on the loan (which had an APR of 29.9%). 
Further, this was based on her continuing to earn £300 a month in a second job as a field 
marketing agent. In his final suitability letter he stated that Mrs S disposable income was 
actually under £25 a week taking account of potential rising costs. The agent appeared to 
make no effort to confirm whether this was sustainable or whether Mrs S intended to 
continue doing two jobs till she was 65.
Overall, it is far from clear, in my view, whether she was in a position to commit to additional
expenditure. This is supported by the fact that while the loan was on a repayment i.e.
decreasing basis, she repeatedly increased the length of the loan (presumably being unable
to pay it off at the end of the three-year period.
In this context, it was crucial for the advisor to fully discover what Mrs Ss priorities were and
what she felt she could afford. I am not persuaded he did this.
Although Mrs S is no longer complaining about the main life insurance policy, I think it is
relevant when assessing the merits of this second policy. Firstly, the advisor said that Mrs S
needed life insurance with a sum assured of over £100,000. He then reduced this to
£47,000 and £650 a month in critical insurance (both on an increasing basis). But then
recommended just £8,177 of cover (which appeared to be based on Mrs S ability to pay £20
a month in total for cover). He also stated that she needed this cover for just 11 years but
offered no explanation for this period, beyond it being the standard retirement age (for a
man).
Given Mrs S had no dependents at this point, there is no evidence to suggest that anyone
would have financially suffered in the event of her death. I have no doubt she would have
wanted, if this was affordable, to provide a lump sum for her adult child but there is no
reason why this would have only applied up to the date she retired. So I think the advisors
recommendation is not fully thought through or justified. There are also no figures about
what pension she was likely to inherit and whether this would be sufficient to cover her
detailed outgoings, few of which seemed likely to change in retirement.
Taking account of all these issues, I am very surprised he then felt it was important for Mrs S
to take out separate and additional cover for her loan. This increased her indebtedness,
something that became apparent when she refinanced this loan on three occasions.
From what I have read Mrs S had no assets or investments so I do not believe it was
necessary for her to pay additional money to ensure this loan was paid off in the event of her
death. Even if this were the case, this policy did not match either the term or the form of her
loan, which was on a decreasing basis and for three years only. While she could have simply
stopped the policy after 35 months (the initial term of her loan), the sum assured continued
at £3,000 while her loan was designed to be fully repaid after three years. This meant she
was paying for increasingly greater cover than the outstanding loan. Finally, she had around
£750 in savings so if she had died and her daughter had taken responsibility for any
outstanding loan sum, the most shed have had to pay would have been £2,250.
Finally, if Mrs S had wanted life and critical illness cover up to the age of 65 and was
prepared to pay £20 a month for this, then I believe BoS should have simply recommended
a single policy which provided the sum assured that was available for that monthly sum.
I can see no justification for this second standalone policy which was very expensive
compared to the cover which could have been obtained for a much longer period if only one
policy had been recommended.
BoS should therefore repay the premiums Mrs S paid on this policy and add 8% simple
interest per annum to each premium from the date it was paid to the date of settlement of
this complaint.
BoS accepted my view, including the proposed compensation but added:Life cover was at no additional cost and our advisers are required to recommend a 
Level Term Assurance (LTA) policy to protect a personal loan where the APR is in 
excess of 18%
Given Mrs Ss loans interest was 29.9% an LTA policy would have been more 
appropriate as this would ensure the loan was fully protected and could be repaid in 
the event of a customers premature death during the term of the policy
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons outlined in my Provisional Decision, I am satisfied that this complaint should 
be upheld. Just to reiterate I do not believe a level term policy is an appropriate 
recommendation for a decreasing term policy irrespective of the interest rate.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax should repay the premiums Mrs S paid on this policy 
and add 8% simple interest per annum to each premium from the date it was paid to the date 
of settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and instruct Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax to pay 
compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman