DRN-2844184
The complaint
Mr F complains about end of contract charges when his hire agreement with LeasePlan UK 
Limited trading as Network (LeasePlan) ended. 
What happened
In January 2017 Mr F was supplied with a new car and entered into a hire agreement with 
LeasePlan. The original agreement was for three years. At the end of this, Mr F and 
LeasePlan agreed to a further year. 
When the agreement ended, the car was inspected. Following the inspection, LeasePlan 
sent Mr F the inspection report and an invoice for £562 for damage charges. 
Mr F wasnt happy about this and complained to LeasePlan. He said LeasePlans collection 
agent had inspected the car and had told Mr F that everything was okay. Mr F said he was 
told there was some wear and tear on the car, but that he wouldnt be charged for it. He 
wasnt given the opportunity to look over the car  he was told he would be sent a report and 
he wasnt asked to sign anything. 
LeasePlan upheld Mr Fs complaint. They agreed to reduce the damage charges invoice by 
£100 as a gesture of goodwill in acknowledgement of Mr Fs comments that the collection 
agent may have made some misleading comments. However, LeasePlan also said that the 
damage charges had been charged correctly, in line with recognised industry standards  in 
this case the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines. 
Mr F wasnt happy with LeasePlans response and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said the damage charges being asked for were 
consistent with the BVRLA guidelines and were therefore reasonable. She said she felt Mr F 
had been fairly compensated by LeasePlan for any misleading information hed been given. 
She also said that Mr F had the opportunity to inspect the car himself prior to the formal 
inspection by the collection agent. She went on to say that it was possible the collection 
agent didnt obtain a signature from Mr F at the end of the inspection, due to a change in the 
way they were working during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr F didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said that without inspecting the car and 
signing for the inspection, he couldnt be certain the damage hadnt been caused by the 
collection agent after hed collected the car. Mr F felt the car was in good condition for its 
age and mileage. 
As Mr F didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer hire 
agreement and our service can consider complaints about these agreements. 
Where there is conflicting or missing evidence, such as in this case, I have to make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. Or in other words, what I think is most likely 
to have happened. And in this case, I dont think the damage charges have been applied 
incorrectly. Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr F must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear, is Mr Fs responsibility. 
And the agreement also made it clear that the BVRLA guidelines would be used in 
assessing whether any damage was fair wear and tear or not. 
Ive looked at the inspection report and the photos. They show that scratches and chips have 
been identified in a number of places  the front bumper, the left-hand door mirror, the rear 
bumper centre moulding, the right-hand sill and the left-hand post. The BVRLA guidelines 
state that scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable providing the primer or bare metal isnt 
showing and the scratch can be polished out. They also confirm that any unpainted 
mouldings are acceptable provided the scuff or scratch is less than 25mm and isnt broken, 
cracked or deformed. The guidelines also state that a maximum of four surface scratches to 
one panel is considered acceptable as fair wear and tear. For chips, the guidelines say that 
a chip is acceptable provided its less than 3mm in diameter and isnt rusted. A maximum of 
four chips on any panel, six chips per door edge, and eight chips on any forward-facing 
panel are also considered fair wear and tear. 
The scratches and chips that Mr F is being charged for and what Ive seen in the photos all 
exceed the BVRLA guidelines for whats considered as fair wear and tear. Based on that, Im 
satisfied the charges have been applied correctly. 
Mr F has said that, without signing the inspection report and being able to confirm the 
damages, its not possible to know that it wasnt caused by the collection agent once the car 
had been collected. But the inspection report, the photos and a video of the car were 
completed outside Mr Fs house  and the damage is evident in those. So, Im satisfied that 
the damage charged for was present on the car at the time of the inspection. 
I understand Mr Fs frustration if he was left with the impression that he wouldnt be charged 
for damage, only to receive an invoice shortly afterwards. And I know he thinks its unfair to 
be charged when he believed the condition of the car was okay. Unfortunately, there arent 
any notes of the discussion between Mr F and the collection agent so I cant be certain what 
was said. Mr F has travelled approximately 100,000 miles in the car, so I understand why he 
feels the condition of the car was okay. But the BVRLA guidelines are in place for exactly 
this type of situation, and there is no allowance made for mileage covered. I need to decide if 
LeasePlan have applied the charges fairly in line with Mr Fs agreement and the BVRLA 
guidelines. And its clear from the inspection report and photos that the damage does 
exceed what would be considered fair wear and tear, so Im unable to conclude the charges 
have been applied unfairly. 
Mr F has said he wasnt given the opportunity to inspect the car alongside the collection 
agent, and he wasnt asked to sign the completed inspection report. Having seen the 
inspection report it confirms Mr F wasnt asked to sign it because of Covid-19 restrictions in place at the tie. But I can understand Mr Fs point. He should have been notified about any 
damage charges that were outside of the BVRLA guidelines and he was going to be charged 
for, so that he could agree or not to those charges at the time. But LeasePlan have 
acknowledged this and reduced Mr Fs outstanding damage charges by £100 to recognise 
he may have been given misleading information, and I think thats fair in the circumstances. 
In an ideal situation, Mr F would have been asked to sign the inspection report  but in this 
case I dont think that changes things. As Ive mentioned previously, the report, photos and 
video of the condition of the car were completed outside Mr Fs house. Whether or not he 
had the chance to sign the inspection report doesnt change the fact that the damage was 
evident at the time the car was inspected. 
Overall, I dont think LeasePlan have treated Mr F unfairly or unreasonably here. They have 
reduced Mr Fs damage charges to acknowledge he may have received some misleading 
information when the car was collected. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
LeasePlan UK Limited trading as Network have already made an offer to reduce Mr Fs 
damage charges by £100 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in the 
circumstances. 
So, my decision is that LeasePlan UK Limited trading as Network should reduce Mr Fs 
outstanding damage charges by £100.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman