DRN-3594827
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that Nationwide mis-sold them a payment protection insurance, (MPPI),
policy with a mortgage.
What happened
Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs B the MPPI in 2000 by a sales process neither of them can
remember. It only covered Mr B although it was sold at the same time as they took out a joint
mortgage. It covered Mr B against accident, sickness, and unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld because he
felt that the level of Mr Bs sick pay entitlement meant he and Mrs B had no need of the
policy. Because Nationwide disagreed with this view, the matter came to me to decide.
On 16 June 2022 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I explained that, 
from the information I then had, I provisionally didnt find that Nationwide had mis-sold the 
policy. But that Nationwide ought to have paid back some of the cost of the MPPI, which it 
had already done. I gave the parties time to send me more evidence and comments which I 
would look at before issuing a final decision. That time has now passed. 
Mr and Mrs B responded to my provisional decision and did not agree with it. 
Nationwide didnt send us any more information or relevant comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection
insurance on our website and Ive followed this in making my decision.
Because of the time that has passed, Nationwide no longer has any of the paperwork signed
by Mr and Mrs B, and it isnt required to keep papers for this length of time. So Ive made this
l decision on the information that I do have and what we know generally about the sale of 
MPPI.
Mr and Mrs B say that they didnt know that they had MPPI; that it wasnt discussed at the
time of the sale. I have no reason to disbelieve that, that is what they now recollect from the
time of the sale. But they are trying to remember something that took place over 20 years
ago, and I dont think it is reasonable to rely solely on their memories. In the absence of
more persuasive evidence, I dont find that I have anything on which to base a finding that 
they didnt know it was optional or didnt choose to take it.
This finding is reinforced because Mr and Mrs B would have had to tell Nationwide whether
they wanted to take out a joint policy, or one just covering one of them. And they would also
have had to agree on the amount of the monthly benefit that would be paid following a
successful claim. This would necessarily have involved some discussion at the time. Further, 
Nationwide has sent us copies of some of the annual renewals and mortgage payment 
statements it sent Mr and Mrs B. These clearly showed that they were paying for MPPI and 
the amount of premiums. Although the copies Ive seen refer to dates after the sale, contrary 
to what they have told us, these show that, at the very least, had Mr and Mrs B read this 
correspondence, they would have had notice of the existence of the policy within a few 
months of the sale.
I dont think that Nationwide advised Mr and Mrs B to take the policy, so it was up to them to
decide whether it met their needs at the time. But Nationwide did need to give Mr and Mrs B
clear, fair, and not-misleading information about the insurance so that they could make a
properly informed decision. Because it was so long ago, I dont know what Nationwide told
Mr and Mrs B. However, taking into account what I know about their circumstances at the
time and the terms and conditions of the policy I find that:
Mr B was eligible for the MPPI;
Mr B had previously been diagnosed with a medical condition. And the terms and
condition of the policy meant that, for the first 12 months it was in force, it wouldnt have
covered him had he been off work because of that condition. However, this exclusion
wouldnt thereafter have applied for the remainder of the 25 years of the mortgage term.
Further, Mr B has told us that the condition was controlled with medication and that he
had never taken time off work because of it. I dont know whether Nationwide made the
exclusion clear to Mr and Mrs B, but if it had done so, from what Ive said, I dont think
that Mr and Mrs B would have been put off taking out the policy because of it;
Mr B wasnt affected by any of the policys other main limitations and restrictions;
Mr B has told us that he was entitled to 52 weeks sick pay and a redundancy package
from his employer. But, following a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid £350 a
month in addition the these for up to 12 months. Leaving his employment benefits, and
any savings they may have had, available to help meet his and Mrs Bs other expenses
while he wasnt working. So I think that the policy could have been of use to Mr and
Mrs B;
The premiums were initially about £17 a month and were competitively priced by
reference to other polices available in the market at the time. And the policy offered a
reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs B couldnt
afford it. In any event, had they subsequently decided that they couldnt afford it, or no
longer wanted it, the policy could have been cancelled at any time without further cost,
as it was paid for monthly;
Mr and Mrs B had life cover and critical illness insurance. But these polices pay out in
different circumstances to MPPI. So I dont think that affected the potential benefit of the
MPPI to them;
Mr and Mrs B queried why the policy didnt cover them both as the mortgage was in their
joint names. I havent seen anything to explain this. But it isnt unusual for joint borrowers
only to take out MPPI in the name of just one of them.
So from what Ive concluded above, I find that Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have been put off 
taking the policy had they been given clear information about its terms. I say this particularly 
bearing in mind the serious consequences that could have arisen had they been unable to meet their monthly mortgage repayments. Overall this means that I dont find that 
Nationwide mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs B. And it doesnt have to pay back all the cost 
of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI because Nationwide got a high 
level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI premium) - so it should 
have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was 
unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have said, both in response to my provisional 
decision and before, including:
that they always paid more than their monthly mortgage repayments. This would have 
meant that they could have missed some payments without any serious sanctions being 
applied. But I dont conclude that this is sufficient to show that they had no need of the 
MPPI. Or that Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have thought that it was good value; 
their query as to how one of the Ombudsdman team felt that they, (that is to say Mr and 
Mrs B), had been mis-sold and now another Ombudsman says that they dont agree 
we did. I am required to consider all the comments and information on this complaint 
afresh and to come to my decision having done so, regardless of what conclusions our 
adjudicator or anyone else in the service may have reached. This is what I have done; 
they had always had added costs that they were told were part and parcel of getting a 
mortgage. So they would not have thought there was anything unusual about added 
payments in respect of the mortgage forming the subject matter of this complaint. I take 
this to be a reference to the contents of the renewals and mortgage statements, to which 
I have referred earlier. Mr and Mrs Bs comment does not detract from mine to the effect 
that, had they read the correspondence, they would have known they had the insurance;
Mr B had had to leave work in 2002 because of ill-health. Had they known they had 
MPPI they would have put in a claim. For the reasons Ive already given I think they 
chose to take out the policy. Whether they subsequently overlooked its existence or not I 
cannot say. I dont know why they didnt make a claim;
they again queried why they would have chosen only to cover Mr B when in our eyes we 
had a joint mortgage;
they suggested that, in my provisional decision, I had insinuated that they were too old to 
remember that they had accepted MPPI. Im sorry if Mr and Mrs B read my provisional 
decision this way. I have reviewed its contents and cannot see how they could have 
construed what I said in this way. I pointed out the amount of time that had passed since 
the MPPI was sold, but made no reference to their ages, nor did I have any intention of 
doing so;
they say that they did not need MPPI which is clearly demonstrated in the fact that they 
would have claimed when Mr B gave up his job due to ill-health. As Ive said, I dont 
know why they didnt make a claim when Mr B gave up his job. Theyve said elsewhere 
that they didnt know they had MPPI, which could be an explanation; although my 
conclusion is that they knew at the time of the sale. Possibly they may have 
subsequently overlooked it. In any event, the fact that their financial circumstances meant that they could manage without making a claim when Mr B actually left his job, 
doesnt mean that at the time of the sale they didnt foresee future events that could have 
given rise to the need for cover.
So these and Mr and Mrs Bs other comments dont change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my l decision is that I find that Nationwide Building 
Society didnt mis-sell the policy, so it doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the MPPI to Mr 
and Mrs B.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman