DRN-4056023
The complaint
Miss C complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) decided not to refund her after she 
was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
Miss C says her friend introduced her to an employment/investment opportunity with a 
company Ill call M. It involved completing tasks on different social media sites to make 
money. The premise was that she needed to purchase packages which allowed her access 
to carry out tasks across several social media platforms, each task attracting a small 
payment. Miss C says that the more tasks she completed the more money shed earn. Miss 
C could also receive payments for introducing others to M. 
All the payments Miss C made were to a cryptocurrency exchange. I have set them out 
below:
Date Amount
29/04/22 £2
02/05/22 £100
03/05/22 £3,190
04/05/22 £2,111
05/05/22 £1,882.31
05/05/22 £449.68
06/05/22 £139.45
09/05/22 £1,138.56
12/05/22 £2,001.80
25/05/22 £350
27/05/22 £620
27/05/22 £1,021
03/06/22 £9,050
07/06/22 £384
Ms platform began to restrict accounts, saying that people werent completing tasks 
correctly. M said that to unlock the tasks users had to pay fees. Miss C contacted Wise 
support on 16 June 2022 to report what had happened.
Miss Cs representative has explained that Miss C received money from family and friends 
and used these funds and her own to buy cryptocurrency, which was unusual for her. 
Wise didnt refund any of the payments. It referred to its terms and conditions and said it 
doesnt get involved in disputes between senders and recipients. Wise also pointed out that 
buying cryptocurrency is against its acceptable use policy so said that even if it did intervene 
its unlikely Miss C would have told the truth. And the exchange Miss C sent money to also 
provided other services so it wasnt apparent to Wise that Miss Cs funds were being used to 
buy cryptocurrency.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She felt that Wise should 
have identified the £9,050 payment on 3 June 2022 as unusual and out of character and 
asked Miss C questions about it. If this had happened, the investigator thought the scam 
would have been uncovered and Miss Cs loss prevented. But the investigator also thought 
Miss C didnt do enough to check the legitimacy of the job offer and reduced the award by 
half. As another party had already refunded Miss C 50% of the £9,050 payment the 
investigator asked Wise to pay £2,262.50 in respect of this transfer and half of the 
subsequent one. 
Wise didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
- Wise is a payment service provider not a bank and its accounts are used differently. 
- The £9,050 payment was the largest Miss C had made, but shed made large 
payments before. Wise referred to four payments between November 2020 and 
December 2021, each for around £5,000. 
- It is common for Wise customers to use their accounts for random one-off larger 
payments (as well as to deposit funds and spend them quickly). The pattern of scam 
payments was also consistent with previous payments. A year prior to the first 
reported scam payment Miss C deposited funds and withdrew them quickly.
- The investigator referred to a sudden increase in spending but the volume of funds 
going through Miss Cs account was in line with previous months. 
- By the time Miss C made the payment when the investigator said Wise should have 
intervened, she had already made 14 transfers to the same recipient.  
- Wise didnt complete any additional checks because the payment requests Miss C 
made werent suspicious. 
Miss C, through her representative, also didnt agree with the investigators view. She didnt 
think the award should be reduced by 50% and said:
- M had a professional app that looked legitimate. On it Miss C could see tasks, 
updates and different membership levels.
- Miss C went through what seemed like a legitimate interview process as shed 
expect. 
- Miss C researched the job offer and found videos showing how to perform the tasks 
and positive comments and reviews.
- She was added to a group messaging app with many other employees who shared 
their experience and provided positive reviews. 
As neither party accepted the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider. 
I noted that some transactions Miss Cs representative said were scam payments (which I 
havent included in the table above) were in fact credits to Miss Cs account and questioned 
this. I was told that the following credits represented returns/income from M:
10/05/22 - £604
11/05/22 - £789
13/05/22 - £72513/05/22 - £2,778
02/06/22 - £2,868.20
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry that Miss C has lost so much money in a cruel scam. I need to decide whether 
it would be fair and reasonable for Wise, in all the circumstances of this case, to be held 
responsible for this loss. 
Wise is an electronic money institute (EMI) and not a bank so isnt subject to the same 
expectations set out in guidance and regulations as a bank when it comes to fraud 
prevention. Wise should execute payment instructions without undue delay. And as a 
starting point there is a presumption that liability for authorised payments is on the payer, 
even where it might have been made as part of a scam. 
But that doesnt mean Wise had no obligation to Miss C. Wise is required to be on the 
lookout for indications of financial crime. Im satisfied Wise ought to have systems in place to 
monitor the transactions on its accounts and that it should intervene when appropriate. 
Ive thought about whether Wise acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss C when 
she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did.
I dont consider Wise had any reason to be concerned until Miss C made the payment of 
£9,050 in June 2022. The early payments were relatively low in value and didnt fit a pattern 
consistent with common scams. Miss C had an account with Wise before the scam and in 
the 12 months before the scam transactions made two transfers of around £5,000. So lower 
value payments to a payee which became established werent unusual and wouldnt have 
stood out.
Im persuaded the position changed when Miss C made the £9,050 payment though. This 
was by far the largest payment Miss C had ever made from the account and represented a 
huge increase in the amount paid to M. And there was a pattern of increasing payments to 
an exchange that is regularly used to buy cryptocurrency. By this time Wise should have 
been aware of the prevalence of scams of this nature and been on the lookout for signs of 
financial harm so I think it ought reasonably have intervened.
Im satisfied that had Wise intervened and asked Miss C about the reason for the payment 
the scam would quickly have been uncovered. I see no reason why Miss C wouldnt have 
told the truth as she hadnt been given a cover story and genuinely believed that she was 
making payments in respect of an employment/investment opportunity. The fact that there 
was no documentation alone ought reasonably to have been a huge red flag to Wise that 
something was amiss. 
It follows that if Wise had prevented the payment of £9,050 the final payment also wouldnt 
have been made. 
Miss C moved £9,050 from an account with another provider to her Wise account before the 
scam payment. This other provider has already refunded 50% of this transaction. I dont 
think Miss C should receive more than half of this this payment overall so am awarding half 
of her outstanding loss in respect of this payment and half of the final payment. Im aware 
that some funds were provided to Miss C by family and friends, but this seems to have been 
before the £9,050 payment. The credits Miss C received from M also stopped before the 
payments Im asking Wise to refund in part. 
Ive gone on to consider whether its fair and reasonable to hold Miss C partially responsible 
for her loss. Ive considered the points made by her representative but dont believe I can 
fairly ask Wise to refund the payments referred to above in full because:- Miss C didnt receive a contract or any other documentation setting out the terms of 
her agreement with M. She has provided certificates of engagement with various 
social media platforms and said she believed they represented confirmation of her 
employment, but thats not what these certificates relate to. I havent seen any 
evidence of the terms agreed between M and Miss C.
- The premise of the arrangement with M is unusual with Miss C needing to pay fees to 
release tasks. And the requirement to send and receive cryptocurrency is so unusual 
I think it ought reasonably to have led to a greater level of caution. 
- At the level Miss C says she was at she would receive a daily income of €144 which 
equated to an annual payment of €52,560 for completing sixty tasks a day. I consider 
this to be a huge amount for unskilled work and think this ought reasonably to have 
caused concern. 
- Miss C has told us that the friend who referred her to M sent her screenshots 
showing the returns shed made. But Miss C hasnt provided this service with the 
screenshots so its difficult to be sure what Miss C relied on when she first started to 
make payments. I consider this to be important as this is the main reason Miss C 
decided to make the first payments.
- Although Miss Cs representative has told us she went through an interview process 
she wasnt asked to provide a CV or any other documentation a new employer would 
usually request. And the process was completed via a messaging app which is 
unusual. 
- When Miss C brought her complaint to this service there was no mention of any 
returns shed made. 
- Miss C made multiple deposits before she was able to withdraw any funds. 
Overall, I consider Miss C should bear some responsibility for her loss too.
My final decision
I require Wise Payments Limited to:
- Refund a quarter of the £9,050 payment (£2,262.50);
- Refund half of the £384 payment;
- Pay interest on the above amounts at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement (less tax if properly deductible). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman