DRN-4066199
The complaint
Mr J complains through a representative that Buffa Loans Ltd (Buffa) gave him loans without 
carrying out proportionate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr J took two loans from Buffa, and Ive outlined a summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentsinstalment
amount
1 £100.00 21/10/2019 30/11/2019 3 £43.43
2 £310.00 30/11/2019 30/01/2020 6 £86.66
In response to the complaint, Buffa issued its final response letter. In summary, it said it had 
carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans were affordable and so it didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr Js representative didnt agree and instead referred the complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who upheld in full. He said the checks at 
loan 1 indicated Mr J had opened 17 new accounts within the preceding six months and in 
the adjudicators view these were likely payday loan accounts. And, he said that based on 
the bank statements, Mr Js credit commitments took up almost all of his declared income. 
The adjudicator thought this meant both loans would be unlikely to be unsustainable for 
Mr J. 
Mr Js representative appear to have accepted the proposed outcome.  
Buffa didnt agree with the outcome the adjudicator proposed for both loans and Ive 
summarised its comments below:
All credit accounts were settled correctly.
There is no evidence that Mr J was falling behind with his other payments or other 
evidence of financial hardship. 
The credit file shows payments to other creditors as being £476 for loan 1 and £845 
for loan 2. 
Mr Js borrowing wasnt excessive.
Mr J hadnt declared any costs for credit commitments which Buffa knew to be 
incorrect. Even though Mr J signed a statement confirming the information he had 
given was accurate. 
The adjudicator went back to Buffa and explained why in his view its comments hadnt 
changed his mind. And as no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Buffa had to assess the lending to check if Mr J could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Buffas checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Js
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Buffa should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr J. These factors include:
Mr J having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr J having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr J coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr J. 
Buffa was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr J was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Js complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
Buffa has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr J for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Js income has been recorded as being £1,400 per
month for both loans. 
Mr J also declared his monthly outgoings were £50 (for both loans). This was recorded as 
being for rent. No other living costs were declared, and this left Mr J disposable income of 
£1,350. While this left more than enough disposable income for Buffa to be confident Mr J 
could afford the loans, I do have some concerns with Mr Js declared expenditure. Firstly, he declared rent but no utilities or any other bills  which doesnt seem plausible. 
And secondly, while Mr J may have signed a declaration to say the information he had 
declared was accurate, Buffa was given other information that suggested he did indeed have 
other outstanding credit. 
This information alone ought to have prompted Buffa to have undertaken some further 
checks with Mr J. But in any event, I havent looked at what those further checks may have 
involved or what it may have shown because Im satisfied the credit check results alone 
ought to have been sufficient for Buffa to realise the loans werent sustainable. 
However, before these loans were approved Buffa also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit
reference agency. I want to add that although Buffa carried out a credit search there
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
Buffa couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received. And in this complaint, I dont think it reacted to what it was being told 
by the credit reference agency. 
And what Buffa ought to be aware of, is that the affordability assessment has to be more 
than showing the loans were pounds and pence affordable. The loans also have to be 
sustainable for Mr J  which would include him being able to make the repayment without 
borrowing again. 
For loan 1, it knew that Mr J had opened 90 credit accounts within the last six years, but 
more concerning was the fact that Mr J had opened 17 new credit accounts within the last 
six months. This is close to an average of three accounts per month in that time period. This 
is a significant sum of new credit being granted  on a regular basis. I think its fair to say 
that on balance, these new accounts are likely to be payday loans. 
The credit report provided by Buffa also showed that Mr J had at least two outstanding 
payday loans, two active home credit loans and then three other loans termed as Finance 
House  which were likely to be payday or instalment loans. But the more concerning 
information was that four of these accounts had been opened within the previous four 
weeks. So, Mr J had demonstrated a real and immediate need to obtain further credit. 
For loan 2, I accept loan 1 was repaid more quickly than the agreement was scheduled, but 
the credit report this time further reinforces my view that Mr J was likely having financial 
difficulties to the extent that he was approaching and being approved new loans from other 
high-cost credit providers. Indeed, in the previous six months Mr J had opened 21 new credit 
accounts  close to an average of four per month. 
I accept that Mr J may have been up to date with his credit commitments, but hed opened 
six new credit accounts  likely to have been payday loans and / or home credit loans in the 
month before this loan was approved. When this loan was advanced, he had 13 such 
accounts active, and the commitments to these were more than 50% of Mr Js declared 
income. 
Taking everything together, as well as thinking about whether the loans would be sustainably 
repaid, I just cant ignore that Mr J was actively seeking and being granted new credit from 
other providers when he was repaying loan 1. In my view, Mr J was now likely, using payday 
loans to make repayments towards other lenders  which isnt a sustainable form of 
repayment. In addition, looking back through all the settled accounts, I can see that Mr J had been a 
regularly user of payday loan / Finance House accounts since at least 2015. Which ought to 
have further indicated to Buffa that Mr J was having financial difficulties, as he was using 
short term loans to clearly cover a long-term hole in his finances. 
I am therefore upholding Mr Js complaint about these loans, and Ive outlined below what 
Buffa needs to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Buffa should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent to Mr J, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr J may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So, 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Buffas liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done 
wrong and should put right.
Buffa shouldnt have lent loans 1 and 2 to Mr J.
A. Buffa should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans.
B. Buffa should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr J originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Buffa should pay Mr J the total of A plus B.
D. Buffa should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Js credit file in 
relation to these two loans.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buffa to deduct tax from this interest. Buffa
should give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Js complaint.
Buffa Loans Ltd should put things right for Mr J as directed above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman