DRN-2778403
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has unfairly declined claims 
they made on their home insurance policy for damage to parts of their bathroom.
What happened
In early 2019, Mr and Mrs S made a claim for a leak in an en-suite bathroom. Lloyds 
declined it and said the damage wasnt covered under their policy. Mr and Mrs S brought a 
complaint about this to our service in 2020  which has been looked at separately. We 
couldnt investigate this complaint as it had been brought to us out of time. 
In early 2020, Mr S made further claims. One for a boiler thermostat and another for 
underfloor heating. Lloyds declined these as it didnt think any damage had been caused by 
an insured event. It thought they were probably not working properly due to wear and tear 
which isnt covered under the policy 
Shortly after, Mr and Mrs S raised further issues. They claimed for a leaking shower and 
heated towel rail that wasnt working. They provided invoices theyd paid for these repairs, 
as well another three invoices theyd paid, totalling around £1,300. The invoices were all 
dated between April 2019 to March 2020 and the others were for various repairs to a shower 
and a boiler. Mr and Mr S asked Lloyds to reimburse them for the work theyd had carried 
out on the bathroom. 
Lloyds didnt respond to Mr and Mrs S letters, so they brought a complaint to this service. At 
this point, Lloyds apologised for not responding and offered £100 compensation to reflect the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience this had caused. But it said the money Mr and Mrs 
S were claiming for repairs wasnt covered by their policy. 
Lloyds said since the complaint had been referred to our service, Mr and Mrs S had made a 
claim for a leak in another bathroom in October 2020. Lloyds said it had told them that it 
would cover any resultant damage the leak had caused. But Mr and Mrs S hadnt come back 
to it on whether they wanted to pursue the claim. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds had acted reasonably in declining the claims from 2020 and 
not agreeing to pay the invoices. She said for claims to be successful, it had to be shown 
that the damage was caused by one of the insured events in the policy, but Mr and Mrs S 
hadnt been able to show that. She also said some of the work carried out was excluded 
under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept that. They were insulted by Lloyds offer of compensation, and 
said they expected their insurance to cover costs of repairs. They said the invoices had 
come to much more than they expected.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been some confusion between the two parties about what claims have been 
made; this hasnt been helped by Lloyds not responding to Mr and Mrs S letters. But having 
looked at everything, Im satisfied that Lloyds has reached a reasonable decision in declining 
the claims and not paying the £1,300 Mr and Mrs S have paid for repairs. Ive explained why 
below.
To make a successful claim on an insurance policy, it is for the insured (so in this case Mr 
and Mrs S) to show that the damage was likely caused by an insured event. Mr and Mrs S 
policy covers their home for damage suffered by events such as fire, storm and escape of 
water. 
Mr and Mrs S first claim was for a boiler thermostat that wasnt working and underfloor 
heating which was only coming on intermittently. I havent seen anything which suggests 
these were damaged by an insured event, so Lloyds doesnt have to cover this claim. Lloyds 
has said its possible they had failed due to wear and tear, but its policy excludes cover for 
this type of damage. I understand that theyve been unexpected costs to Mr and Mrs S, but 
insurance isnt intended to cover general repairs or maintenance needed in a home. So Im 
satisfied Lloyds acted fairly in declining these claims.
A further three invoices were provided for repairs to a leaking shower. Lloyds said its policy 
excludes the cost of repairing a leak but will cover any resultant damage the leak caused. So 
in this instance it said it wouldnt cover the repairs needed. Its policy says
If you have a leak from an appliance or pipe, we dont cover the costs associated 
with repairing the leak itself
Im satisfied that a shower leaking wouldnt be covered because of the term above. I think its 
fair for Lloyds to rely on this term and I cant see that the leaking shower caused any 
damage to Mr and Mrs S home that would be covered under their policy. 
The final invoice was for repairs to a heated towel rail. This was declined by Lloyds as it 
considers this cost to be a plumbing cost, rather than damage caused by an insured event. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds have declined to 
cover this amount. I cant see that the heated towel rail was damaged by an insured event 
and so there is no cover under Mr and Mrs S policy. 
Overall based on what Ive seen, I dont think Lloyds needs to repay Mr and Mrs S the 
£1,300 theyve paid for their various repairs. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
them. 
Lloyds has said Mr and Mr S made a later claim in October 2020. It said Mr and Mrs S had 
reported a leak from their main bathroom and that it had caused damaged to the bedroom. If 
Mr and Mrs S want to pursue their claim for the damage caused by the leak, theyll need to 
contact Lloyds directly to do so.
Lloyds has recognised that its customer service fell below what it expects in not responding 
to letters Mr and Mrs S sent. By way of an apology its offered £100 to reflect the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by not responding to the letters. I know Mr 
and Mrs S are unhappy with this, but I think its right that Lloyds does compensate where its 
service has fallen short and this has had an impact on Mr and Mrs S. But I think £100 is 
enough to recognise the impact of its mistakes.    
My final decisionMy final decision is that Lloyds Bank General Insurance needs to pay £100 to Mr and Mrs S, 
if it hasnt done so already.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman