DRN-2170469
The complaint
E Ltds complaint is about Lloyds Bank Plc; E Ltd says that Lloyds gave incorrect advice
about the requirement of a deed of priority when mortgaging. It wants more compensation.
What happened
E Ltd wanted to mortgage a property. It said that Lloyds told it that it needed a 
deed of priority to allow the transaction to proceed as it held a debenture over the
companys assets.
E Ltd said that its solicitors had advised that the deed of priority wasnt needed, 
and Lloyds solicitors had agreed to issue a letter of consent instead.
E Ltd complained to Lloyds about its initial position that a deed of priority was
needed, as the drafting had cost it £900, in addition to the £300 cost of the letter 
of consent. E Ltd felt its time had been wasted and it had missed out on some of 
the rental income or increase in property value from the property it would've 
bought in auction using the loan proceeds as over three weeks were spent 
dealing with this issue.
     Lloyds upheld the complaint. It paid £225 compensation for the inconvenience
      caused and the cost of calls, as well as £600 towards the additional charges,
      meaning that E Ltd only paid the amount required for the letter of consent. This    
      was because Lloyds accepted that it had given Mr S (a director of E Ltd) incorrect
      information about the cost of what was required and didnt give good customer
      service.
E Ltd didnt agree and brought its complaint to us through Mr S.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld 
and said the £300 remaining charge should be refunded and another £100 
compensation for trouble and upset paid.
Lloyds accepted this, but E Ltd wanted more compensation, though it didn't say 
why.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive provisionally decided that this complaint shouldn't be upheld for these reasons:
E Ltds solicitor made it clear on 25 September 2019 that a deed of priority wasnt 
needed and told Lloyds why. Lloyds didnt ask for more information, such as 
whether the new lender was willing to rank behind it and has said that its process 
isnt to ask such questions. It hasn't sent evidence of this process. But by failing to 
raise obvious questions about the position of the new lender, the situation wasnt 
fully explored and did cause delay and unnecessary work on the deed of priority. 
This wasnt fair or reasonable.
But I dont think that its fair or reasonable for compensation to be paid for the 
lost opportunity E Ltd says it has suffered. It wanted to buy a property at auction, 
but there was no guarantee of success; equally, theres no certainly about the 
allegedly lost rent income or property value.
I don't think though that its fair and reasonable for the remaining £300 of charges 
to be refunded. The letter of consent (and other documents) cost £300. If the 
mistake hadnt happened, this is the amount that E Ltd wouldve had to have paid 
as there's no dispute that the letter of consent was needed as shown by the 
advice of E Ltd's own solicitors.
Also I don't think that another £100 compensation for trouble and upset should be 
paid. A limited company cant suffer trouble and upset as it isn't a person. E Ltd 
technically was the customer, not Mr S. While Mr S, a director, was 
inconvenienced, I think £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the 
incorrect information and delay, together with £25 for the cost of calls is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, E Ltd said that it should receive compensation for 
trouble and upset as people had to run a business and the director had spent time dealing 
with Lloyds. Lloyds raised a query about a second complaint raised which appeared to be a 
duplicate of this one; the other complaint was treated as withdrawn as a result.
Reviewing this complaint, Im of the view that I can consider it as the other complaint has 
been treated as withdrawn. Ive thought about what E Ltd has said, but it remains the case 
that a limited company is a separate entity from the people who run it and a company cant 
suffer trouble and upset. The director isnt the customer in this case. And Ive already taken 
into account the inconvenience involved when finding £200 compensation (with the 
additional compensation for the cost of calls) is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My view remains as set out within the provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or reject my decision before 
14 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman