DRN-3067063
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M, trading as B, complain about the decision of 
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited not to meet their claim for 
business interruption losses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a commercial insurance policy which is underwritten by 
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU). Much of the 
correspondence relating to this complaint involved other parties, but as NFU is responsible 
for the decision being complained about, for simplicity I have just referred to NFU and 
Mr and Mrs M. 
The policy provides a number of areas of cover, including for losses resulting from business 
interruption. In March 2020, Mr and Mrs M were forced to close their business as a result of 
the government-imposed restrictions introduced to stop the spread of COVID-19. They 
contacted NFU to see if they could claim under the policy. However, NFU said that their 
claim would be declined in the circumstances. 
Over the course of several communications, NFU explained that the core business 
interruption cover was based on there having been damage, and such damage was not the 
cause of interruption to B. It also explained that the optional Human Diseases extension to 
the business interruption section was limited to a specified list of diseases and this did not 
include COVID-19. It then explained that not only did the Public Emergency extension not 
cover claims resulting from infectious or contagious disease, it was intended to only cover 
events that happened in the locality of the insureds premises rather than a nationwide event 
like the COVID-19 pandemic. 
As Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with NFUs stance, they referred their complaint to this 
service. Largely speaking, their arguments have focussed on whether the part of the Public 
Emergency term referring to infectious or contagious disease is an actual exclusion or not.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint though. He felt the Public 
Emergency extension only provided cover in relation to localised events, rather than the 
nationwide emergency represented by the COVID-19 pandemic. He also agreed with NFUs 
reasoning on the core business interruption cover and the Human Disease extension. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unsatisfied and so this complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mr and Mrs M and their business, I wont be upholding their 
complaint. My reasons are substantially the same as the Investigators.
I understand that B stopped operating in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to 
continue operating after this time. So, the type of cover Mr and Mrs M are looking to claim 
under is business interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Mr and Mrs M took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, 
as well as a number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the 
business of the insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate 
the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage 
to property which has led to an interruption of Bs business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms claim. 
And I think NFU acted fairly and reasonably in saying Mr and Mrs Ms claim under this area 
of cover would not be met.
The Public Emergency extension
The focus of Mr and Mrs Ms arguments have been around this extension to the business 
interruption section of their policy. The extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from the actions or advice of a competent 
Public Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property occurring in 
the vicinity of the PREMISES, which prevents or hinders the use of or access to the 
PREMISES for a period greater than four consecutive hours.
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease or the 
suspected or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device.
The use of Bs premises was prevented or hindered because of the actions or advice of the 
Government. I consider the Government to be a competent Public Authority. The 
Government took these actions and gave this advice because of the COVID-19 pandemic. I 
consider this pandemic to be an emergency which is likely to endanger life. As such, I can 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs M consider this extension should cover the circumstances of 
their claim. 
However, like the Investigator, when considering NFUs decision not to meet Mr and Mrs Ms 
potential claim under this clause, I need to consider the relevant law. And this includes the 
findings of the High Court in The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) v Arch Insurance (UK) 
Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 2448 (Comm) (the FCA test case). 
As part of the FCA test case, the High Court considered a number of representative policy 
wordings. Mr and Mrs Ms policy with NFU was not one of those specifically considered. 
However, the term above is very similar to one of those the court did consider  the RSA 2.1 
wording. The findings of the High Court on this policy wording are found at paragraphs 462 to 467 of 
the judgment. Of particular significance are the following extracts from paragraphs 466 and 
467:
we do not consider that the entire country can be described as in the vicinity of the 
insured premises on the wording of this policy. It follows that the government action 
and advice in response to the national pandemic cannot be said to be due to an 
emergency in the vicinity, in the sense of in the neighbourhood, of the insured 
premises.
There could only be cover under this wording if the insured could also demonstrate 
that it was an emergency by reason of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in that sense of the 
neighbourhood, of the insured premises, as opposed to the country as a whole, 
which led to the actions or advice of the government
This part of the High Court judgment was not appealed, and the findings above set out the 
current legal position. And I see no reason to depart from the High Courts findings at this 
time.
The restrictions imposed on B were those introduced across the whole country, as a result of 
the national pandemic. Given the comments of the High Court, this cannot be said to be due 
to an emergency in the vicinity of Bs premises. So, I do not consider NFU acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when saying Mr and Mrs Ms claim under this term would be declined. 
Having determined that this extension does not provide cover in the circumstances, I also do 
not consider it is necessary for me to determine whether the additional wording that forms 
the extension is actually a formal exclusion or not. 
The Human Disease extension
This is an optional extension to the business interruption section of Mr and Mrs Ms policy. It 
isnt listed on their policy schedule, so it isnt clear to me whether this extension was in 
effect. However, for the sake of completeness, I have considered whether it would provide 
cover if it was in operation. 
The extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME caused by the occurrence of any of the following 
diseases at the PREMISES which results in closure or restriction in use of the 
PREMISES on the order or advice of a Competent authority:

The clause then goes on to list those diseases that are covered, but this list does not include 
COVID-19. 
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided Mr and Mrs M with cover for the circumstances of their claim. This is because 
COVID-19 isnt one of the diseases listed.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for NFU to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
NFU intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. NFU deliberately 
chose to limit the cover provided by reference to a static list of certain diseases.I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy 
Mr and Mrs M had.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy Mr and Mrs M had is to provide cover in the event 
of the diseases listed in the extension. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that 
the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont 
think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside 
of the defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Mr and Mrs Ms potential claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of 
covered diseases. As cover was not provided under this area of their policy for losses 
resulting from business interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied NFUs decision, to 
say a claim under this section would not be covered, was in line with the policy, and in all the 
circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means NFU should have met a claim Mr and Mrs M could have made in the 
circumstance. I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, but I hope Ive 
provided them with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman