DRN-3320142
The complaint
Mr D complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118118 Money (Madison), lent to 
him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr D has explained his circumstances at the time and I am sorry to hear it. And I understand 
his financial situation is better now. Mr D approached Madison twice for loans. Using 
information from Madisons records here is a brief loan table. 
Loan Approved Amount Term and repayments 
(rounded)Repaid
1 5 June 2017 £2,000 24 x £158 each month 14 May 2018
Gap in lending of 18 months
2 30 November 2019 £1,000 12 x £119 each month 25 April 2020
Mr D complained to Madison in May 2021 using a representative. Madison issued its final 
response letter to that representative in July 2021. Mr D complained again without the 
representative in late July 2021 and Madison said it had already addressed his irresponsible 
lending complaint and was not doing so again.
Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
adjudicators looked at it. She thought that we did not need to ask Madison to put things right 
as it had carried out the right checks before lending. 
Mr D did not agree as he said his credit file would show he had taken loans just before he 
took these loans. And that his bank statements would have revealed his gambling. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr D  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr D and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ds ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr D. In 
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr D undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr D. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint and I will explain here.
For Loan 1, Mr D had informed Madison he was living at home with parents and his salary 
was £2,500 a month and his outgoings were relatively low at £300 for household and food 
and £50 a month for other credit obligations.
Having reviewed the records Madison has sent to me, it carried out an income verification 
which dovetailed with what Mr D had told them. Madison carried out a credit search and it 
has sent to us those results. It did not show a great deal of outstanding debt. And revealed 
nothing to give it concern. 
So, the proportionate checks for Mr Ds first loan were fulfilled and the information it acted on 
before approving the loan was appropriate. Mr Ds figures combined with what it had seen 
on the credit searches led it to consider Mr D could afford the loan.  
The gap between the two loans meant that when Mr D came back for the second loan, 
18 months after he had repaid his first one earlier than scheduled, then it was reasonable for 
Madison to proceed on the basis Mr D was in a similar position to a new customer. And even if it had not done that and had treated the two loans as one lending chain, the fact Mr D 
repaid loan 1 early and was then reapplying for a smaller sum (£1,000), would not have 
been an element to cause it concern. And unlikely to have prompted Madison to think it 
needed to carry out additional checks.
For Loan 2, Madisons records show me that Mr D had told it he earned £3,000 a month, 
was living at home with his parents and his outgoings were more than for loan 1. He paid for 
household things including utilities and food which came to £420 a month. He had card and 
loan repayments at £100. He paid £50 for insurance and £200 childcare. 
Madison verified his income and checked his credit situation. Again, that did not reveal 
anything untoward and Mr Ds figures combined with what it had seen on the credit searches 
led it to consider Mr D could afford the loan. 
I have reviewed both sets of credit searches carried out for each loan in detail, and here is 
summary of the search results carried out by Madison in November 2019, as Mr D applied 
for loan 2:
Indebtedness Indicators
Total Balances (All): £ 4,984
Total Balances (Loans/Installment [sic] Credit): £ 1,955
Total Balances (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 3,029
Total Limits (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 3,700
Balance to Limit Ratio (Revolving Credit/Budget): 81 %
These do not reveal a debt situation of concern considering Mr Ds income and his situation 
where his domestic outgoings were relatively light as he was living at home with his parents. 
And Madison considered that was the case and I agree. I think the checks were reasonable 
and proportionate. Those checks suggest the loan was affordable and Mr D could sustain 
the repayments over the term. 
Mr Ds argument is that he had a gambling addiction, a poor credit record and Madison 
ought to have known that. But I dont think the gambling was something Madison knew, or 
ought to have known, from what I consider to be proportionate checks. It would have been 
disproportionate to expect Madison to do more. 
The only way that Madison was likely to have known Mr D was spending the capital on 
gambling was is if he had informed Madison of that. I doubt that he did, or that he would 
likely have done, as he was applying to it for a loan. 
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Rachael WilliamsOmbudsman