DRN-3790351
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with how Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Credit Card 
(Tesco) dealt with her complaint about an unrecognised transaction.
What happened
Mrs T says that on 8 February 2022, a passenger fare of £490 was incorrectly taken from 
her Tesco credit card rather than from the passengers payment method. Mrs T provides 
transport services and uses a merchant who allows her to take card payments from 
passengers  Ill refer to this firm as F.
Mrs T contacted Tesco in March after seeing the transaction on her credit card statement. 
As a result, Tesco raised a chargeback on Mrs Ts behalf against F. The chargeback was 
successful, and Mrs Ts £490 was recovered and recredited to her Tesco credit card 
account. However, F held Mrs T liable for these funds.
Mrs T raised a complaint with Tesco, saying theyd raised a chargeback without her consent 
and without explaining what could happen if the chargeback was successful.
Tesco investigated Mrs Ts complaint and offered her £50 as a goodwill gesture. They said 
that Mrs T didnt receive the level of service she shouldve on some of the calls she had with 
them. However, they disagreed with Mrs T claim that she wasnt told about the chargeback 
and explained that chargeback was the most appropriate action as they didnt think the 
transaction happened because of fraud.
Mrs T was unhappy with Tescos response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. They felt the £50 already 
paid by Tesco was fair, explaining that Tesco couldve been clearer about the chargeback 
process with Mrs T. But the investigator was satisfied the evidence showed that the 
transaction was made using Mrs Ts genuine card information. And, ultimately, that Mrs Ts 
Tesco credit card account was in the same position it wouldve been in if the transaction 
hadnt happened. So, they didnt recommend that Tesco take any further action.
Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for the case to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened considering the available evidence.
Having carefully considered everything Mrs T has told us, Ive reached the same answer as 
the investigator - and Ill explain why.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the transaction for £490 was most likely made 
using Mrs Ts genuine Tesco credit card details and was probably made via ApplePay. So, I 
cant fairly say that Tesco allowed the transaction to debit Mrs Ts credit card account in 
error.
I appreciate that its unclear why Mrs Ts credit card was used if the payment related to a 
passengers fare. However, I only have to reach a decision based on the actions taken by 
Tesco and whether theyve acted fairly in the circumstances of this case.
And, based on the information Mrs T gave Tesco when she rang them, Im satisfied that 
Tesco acted reasonably in raising a chargeback. Mrs T says that Tesco shouldve raised a 
fraud claim rather than a chargeback. However, there wasnt clear evidence or indication 
that Mrs T had been the victim of fraud. And, even if there was, I would still expect Tesco to 
raise a chargeback in order to satisfy themselves that Mrs T hadnt received the goods or 
services shed paid for. So, I cant fairly say Tesco did anything wrong in raising a 
chargeback in these circumstances.
As the chargeback was successful, I wouldnt expect Tesco to go on to raise a fraud claim  
which wouldve been the next step if Mrs T was still disputing the transaction.
Mrs T says Tesco didnt tell her they were going to raise a chargeback or warn her that F 
would hold her liable for the £490. And I agree with the investigator that Tesco shouldve 
been clearer about the actions they were taking and the chargeback process. But Tesco 
wouldnt have known what action F would take if the chargeback was successful, which is 
what they told Mrs T. Having listened to the calls Mrs T had with Tesco, Im satisfied that the 
£50 theyve offered Mrs T is fair for the poor service she received.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T, but I cant fairly ask Tesco to take any further action in relation 
to this matter or reasonably ask them to pay her anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Credit Card.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman