DRN-1872709
The complaint
Ms D has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC credited the wrong amount to her account 
when she made a cash deposit. 
What happened
Ms D said she borrowed £1,000 from a friend to clear her overdraft. On 13 February 2020, 
she went into her local Barclays branch to deposit £700 cash into her accounts. She asked 
the cashier to deposit £50 in one account and the rest into another account. She also paid a 
bill in branch.
The next day, on 14 February 2020, Ms D noticed that only £350 had credited her account 
and not £650 as she was expecting. She went back to the branch but the cashier who 
served her wasnt working, so she returned two days later and raised a complaint.
At the time, she believed that the cashier had stolen the money. She asked to see the CCTV 
footage. She also asked Barclays to credit her account with the additional £300.
Barclays said Ms D had been mistaken. It said she had handed over seven £50 notes. This 
totalled £350. It decided not to uphold her complaint.
Ms D wasnt happy with Barclays decision, so she asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint, but she didnt uphold it. In summary, she was 
persuaded by the evidence that Ms D had deposited £350 cash.
Ms D disagreed with the investigators view. She doesnt believe Barclays and is suspicious 
about the absence of CCTV footage. She has also complained that Barclays provided her 
with a poor service when she raised her complaint.
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm afraid I agree with the investigator's conclusions and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ive looked at Ms Ds bank statements. They confirm that £350 was paid into one account 
and £50 into the other account.
Ive also read the statement by the branch manager. He said he spoke to the cashier 
who said Ms D handed over seven £50 notes, which totalled £350.
The branch manager said that the cashier would have given Ms D a receipt for the deposit, 
so she would have seen the amount while still in the branch. Unfortunately, the bank couldnt provide a copy as the branch is now closed because of the recent pandemic restrictions. We 
asked Ms D for a copy of her receipt, but she hasnt provided it. However, she did send us 
the receipt for the £50 deposit. So, I think she did get two receipts. I can only assume the 
second receipt shows £350 and thats why she hasnt sent us a copy of it.
The manager also explained that he worked on the same till on 14 February 2020 and he 
checked the balance for that day. He said the balance for that till was over by £2.95, which 
was from the coins. He sent us a copy of the balance sheet and Ive checked it. It confirms a 
surplus of £2.95. If Ms D had handed over £700, then the balance sheet would show a 
surplus of £302.95 but it doesnt. 
The manager also confirmed that this was the first time the cashier had been accused of 
theft and it had made her very upset.
Clearly, there is a conflict between Ms Ds version of events and what Barclays says 
happened. Where there is a conflict between the customer and the bank, I will look 
for supporting evidence from both parties. In this case, Barclays was able to provide the 
balance sheet for the till. I appreciate Barclays is in a better position to provide supporting 
evidence. However, the balance sheet is persuasive evidence, which I cant ignore.
Ms D also said she believed the cashier had taken the £300. She believes that CCTV 
footage wouldve captured the theft.  It might even show the bank notes.  However, Barclays 
has told us there is no CCTV footage so I'm afraid I don't have that evidence.
Im doubtful that any footage would show, with clarity, the number of notes and 
denominations which were handed over. As for the theft allegation, I dont think a staff 
member would take such a high risk in front of cameras. And I dont believe there is any 
conspiracy by the bank to protect staff by falsely claiming there is no CCTV  because that is 
essentially what Ms D is suggesting. Theres no benefit to Barclays  financial or reputational 
- in protecting any member of staff who commits theft. I understand that Ms D has 
now withdrawn this allegation anyway.
Based on the evidence, Im satisfied that Ms D handed over £350. Im afraid I think its more 
likely that Ms D made an honest but genuine mistake when she counted the notes. I dont 
think Barclays has made any errors or mistakes.
Ive considered whether Barclays provided a poor service, but I dont think it did. According 
to Barclays notes, when Ms D returned to the branch she was threatening and abusive. She 
also made inappropriate remarks about the manager. I havent seen any evidence that 
Barclays was rude to her or dismissive.
Im very sorry to send disappointing news but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman