DRN-2641302
The complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc sought to place her on an unaffordable repayment 
plan despite her paying the minimum sum due each month.
What happened
In August 2018, HSBC sent a letter to Mrs B because she had been making minimum 
payments and these had not covered the interest and charges on her account. It told her it 
would keep her account under review and contact her again in nine months time.
In May 2019, the bank wrote to her again to say that the position remained unchanged and it 
wrote a third time in May 2020. In this third letter it gave her some options to increase 
payments with the aim of repaying the card balance within three or four years. It explained 
that this would save her interest. 
Mrs B contacted HSBC and there appears to have been some confusion. The bank set up a 
persistent debt repayment plan, but Mrs B didnt think that appropriate for her circumstances. 
She called the bank again and said she hadnt agreed to the plan and she would continue to 
make her minimum payments. 
In March 2020, the bank wrote to Mrs B apologising to her and paid £20 to cover the cost of 
calls. It agreed that she could continue with her normal payments. However, shortly after it 
applied a block to her account. Mrs B complained and HSBC responded saying it had 
agreed to her paying £150 a month in error. 
The bank said Mrs B had agreed to pay £201.15 per month for four years and that she would 
no longer be able to use the card. It went on to say it couldnt cancel the plan and it paid her 
£200 compensation for giving her misleading information.
Mrs B said she had only agreed to pay £150 a month not £201.15. She couldnt understand 
why HSBC was pursuing her since she had always paid at least the minimum sum due and 
did so on time. She explained she could only pay £150 per month and if she had more 
available she would pay more.
In April 2020, the block on Mrs Bs account was removed for six months due to Covid and 
she was able to use her card as normal and make her normal repayments. HSBC said there 
would be a review in October 2020.
Mrs B brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mrs B asked that her credit card account to 
continue as normal and to be able to pay what she has always paid each month.
Our investigator said the bank was following guidance set out by the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority for handling customers who are in persistent debt. This guidance applies 
to customers who have paid more in interest and charges than theyve paid off the balance 
on their credit cards over a 36-month period. 
As such he didnt believe the bank had been wrong to try and explore ways of getting Mrs B 
to reduce her debt. He noted Mrs Bs view that payments of £150 per month would pay off 
the debt in four years but he thought she may not be factoring interest into her calculations.
He said that Mrs B had submitted an income and expenditure form but asked that be 
disregarded as it contained some errors. He said that in due course another conversation 
would be needed once the temporary hold on the plan expired and another one would have 
to be considered. He said the bank should asses her circumstances and take the 
appropriate forbearance action.
Mrs B didnt agree and said she had checked her account using tools available on the 
internet and if she continued to pay £150 a month, she would clear her debt in three years 
and three months. She expressed concern that the bank had offered a loan over a four-year 
period which would have been more expensive by around some £3,000.
She subsequently raised a complaint about the interest calculation on her latest credit card 
bill which she thought was incorrect. 
Our investigator responded to say that HSBC was entitled to take the action it had, but it first 
had to assess her circumstances and take the appropriate forbearance. He said that the 
bank would have to address her complaint about the interest calculation first and if that could 
not be resolved the matter could referred to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to a call between Mrs B and the bank and I understand why she has a credit 
card debt and what she has done to reduce her outgoings. It is clear that she is financially 
aware and is seeking to address the matter herself. I have noted her frustration with the 
bank and I can understand that. Many people who find themselves with financial problems 
are not as savvy as Mrs B. 
I believe the bank is seeking to help Mrs B, but it may be that she doesnt quite fit its profile 
of people with persistent debt. Nevertheless, it has an obligation to engage with her in 
exploring ways of reducing the debt as quickly as is feasible and I consider that was what it 
was seeking to do.
It sent her three letters explaining its obligations and has spoken with her several times on 
the phone. It is clear there has been some confusion and the bank did make a mistake 
during the course of one call. It seems that Mrs B has a fixed income and this leaves little 
scope to increase her payments. The bank will need to factor that into its calculations as to 
how much she can afford to pay and whether a cheaper loan would be a better means of 
clearing her debt. It is quite usual for credit card debt to be relatively more expensive than 
many other forms of borrowing and I suspect it would be beneficial to explore other options.
However, I dont think the bank need do more to address the incorrect information it gave 
her. I believe the compensation of £200 plus £20 to cover the cost of calls was fair and 
reasonable.
Overall, I dont think HSBC acted wrongly in trying to get Mrs B to reduce her debt more 
quickly, but I do understand Mrs Bs irritation with its efforts. However, I would remind the 
bank that going forward it should to work with Mrs B positively and sympathetically in finding 
a way forward so that her debt can be repaidMy final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman