DRN-3340454
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs S have complained about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax), saying a 
cash deposit machine didnt credit the full amount to their account.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with what happened here, so I will summarise things in brief.
Mr M and Mrs S have explained that they wanted to deposit £2,000 of cash into their 
account. They tried to deposit the first £1,000 at an immediate deposit machine. They say 
the machine spat some money out, which Mr M straightened and put back in on the 
cashiers advice. The machine registered that theyd deposited £800 in total.
A cashier checked the machine and found that nothing was wrong and no money was stuck. 
Mr M and Mrs S deposited another £1,000 at the counter instead. The branch manager 
checked the machine again later on and also found nothing wrong.
Mr M and Mrs S have asked for the £200 they say is missing.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
looked at the electronic logs for the machine and found it seemed to have been working fine. 
They also looked at the balancing logs, which showed that there were no balancing errors 
for that period, nor any money that was unaccounted for. The amount the machine 
registered matched the receipt given to Mr M. And separate staff members had checked the 
machine shortly afterwards and found nothing wrong.
Mr M and Mrs S didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will coming as a disappointment for Mr M and Mrs S, and while it is not my 
intention to disappoint them, I am not able to uphold their complaint.
First, I hope I can reassure Mr M and Mrs S that we do not require them to prove their 
innocence in the way that theyve suggested, and I am not making any suggestion that they 
are guilty of anything here. Their testimony has been consistent and credible, and so I do 
believe that they believe they deposited £1,000 rather than £800. I do not think that they 
were trying to defraud Halifax. Realistically, there are only two likely possibilities left:
1.) That Mr M and Mrs S deposited £1,000 at the machine, and only £800 was credited to 
their account due to a problem on Halifaxs end; or
2.) That Mr M and Mrs S deposited £800 at the machine, and are mistaken about it being 
£1,000.
Ive thought carefully about whats more likely, based on the evidence at hand.
Turning to the evidence, I do appreciate that that Mr M and Mrs S feel very strongly that our 
service should review the CCTV footage. But CCTV footage is only kept for a relatively short 
time. By the time Mr M and Mrs S came to our service, the CCTV footage had no longer 
been available for some time. So it was not possible for our investigator or myself to view the 
footage.
In any case, I dont think the CCTV footage would have been very helpful. Even if it had 
showed Mr M putting in money twice  and I have no reason to doubt that it would have  it 
still wouldnt show what total amount he put in. So even with the CCTV footage, there would 
still have been every chance that it was £800, and not £1,000. The footage was unlikely to 
have made a difference to the outcome there. But as I said, the footage was not available to 
us anyway.
Looking at the electronic records, the deposit machine does not appear to have had any 
errors or problems at the time, and it recorded this deposit as having gone through correctly 
at £800. This matches the amount on Mr M and Mrs Ss receipt.
The other transactions that day seem to have also gone through just fine. I cant see any 
errors, or anything which would indicate any problems with the machine.
According to the balancing records, there was no cash missing, or stuck in the machine, or 
otherwise unaccounted for. The machine balanced correctly when it was checked at the end 
of that day.
Two different staff members checked the machine  a cashier in the presence of Mr M and 
Mrs S, and the branch manager later on. Neither found anything wrong with the machine or 
any extra cash. And they continued to check the machine for several days afterwards, but 
again found nothing of concern.
Mr M and Mrs S suggested that the cashier could have stolen the money. I understand why 
they thought to suggest this, but I have no evidence which substantiates that thats what 
happened. I dont think its likely or plausible that the cashier would have stolen Mr M and 
Mrs Ss cash while in their presence and the presence of other staff. And it would not be fair 
or reasonable for me to conclude that the cashier committed a crime when I have no 
objective or substantive evidence which shows that they did.
The evidence I have does not support that there was a problem or error on Halifaxs end. It 
does support that the machine was working correctly and that the amount deposited was 
£800, rather than £1,000. So on that basis, I can only fairly conclude that Halifax did not 
make an error here. And so I cannot uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman