DRN-2976774
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services (VWFS) treated him when he asked for help due to financial difficulties 
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
In November 2017 Mr M acquired a new car partly funded by a hire purchase agreement 
provided by VWFS.
Unfortunately, towards the beginning of 2020 Mr M had some financial difficulty due to 
COVID-19. In March 2020 he completed an online form asking VWFS for help. In April 2020 
VWFS emailed Mr M asking for some more details. He then spoke to VWFS in May 2020 on 
the phone having missed his March and April repayments towards the agreement.
Mr M says he was given the impression during the call that a payment deferral had been set 
up and this wouldnt affect his credit file.
Later in May 2020 VWFS told Mr M his application for a payment deferral had been declined, 
as he was in arrears on the account. Mr M complained to VWFS, then cleared his arrears 
with a payment of £1,844 in June 2020. After this, later on in June 2020 a payment deferral 
was approved for three months.
In September 2020 VWFS issued its final response. It said, in summary, that Mr M was told 
unclear and incorrect information during the phone call in May 2020. It said he should not 
have been told the payment deferral was approved. It said it was upholding his complaint 
and had amended his credit file to show no adverse information. And it offered Mr M £100 as 
a gesture of goodwill.
Mr M was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. He said the situation 
had put him under extreme pressure during a difficult time. 
Our investigator issued an opinion and said he was upholding the complaint. He said, in 
summary, that he thought that VWFS shouldve approved a payment deferral for Mr M in 
May 2020. He said he agreed Mr M was given incorrect information and this caused him 
distress and inconvenience. Our investigator said VWFS should pay Mr M an additional 
£100 on top of the £100 it had already offered.
Mr M was unhappy with this. He said the situation had a big impact on him as at the time he 
was supporting a family member who had a serious illness. He said £200 was insulting for 
the level of stress caused.
Mr M said he had now got a new car from the same manufacturer, but this had issues with it. 
He said to put things right he wanted any excess mileage charge waived from this 
agreement, all the issues with his new car fixed and for the new finance agreement to be 
reviewed to see if a reduction in his payments could be made.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I should firstly say that the issues Mr M raised about his new car in response to the 
investigators opinion do not form part of this complaint. To be clear, Im only considering 
what happened when Mr M asked for help due to financial difficulty. Mr M should speak to 
the supplier of the new car if he wishes to pursue these issues further.
Mr M complains about the administration of a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
regulated consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can 
consider Mr Ms complaint against VWFS. 
I think there are two main things to consider here  what shouldve happened when Mr M 
asked VWFS for help, and whether the service Mr M received from VWFS fell below what he 
couldve expected.
Payment deferral
Mr M first got in touch with VWFS about help with his finances in March 2020. There was 
some confusion over whether Mr M completed an application for a payment deferral or if he 
completed a different form to let VWFS know about general financial difficulty. But, either 
way, I think its fair to say he made VWFS aware of his situation at this point. 
Under normal circumstances I wouldve expected VWFS to react quicker to this information 
than it did. But, I need to consider the wider picture here. The pandemic was starting in the 
UK at this time and this had a knock on effect to most businesses, including VWFS. So, 
considering things in the round, I dont think VWFS need to take any further action here on 
this point.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, guidance and 
regulations. On 24 April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published guidance 
Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This came into 
effect on 27 April 2020 and explained:
Where a customer is already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary
payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to
receive a payment deferral, a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3
months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the
customers interests to do so.
When Mr M spoke to VWFS in May 2020, he explained his financial situation was purely 
down to the impact of COVID-19. And he explained things would be getting back on track 
from the following month. Mr M explained he has been a long term customer of VWFS and 
had never missed a payment before the pandemic.
I do appreciate that VWFS had not had much time to put the guidance into action when it 
spoke to Mr M. But, I dont think it was right to decline Mr Ms request for a payment deferral. 
VWFS declined the application as Mr M was in arrears, but Im satisfied these were due to temporary difficulties caused by COVID-19. Turning down his application for help with 
temporary financial difficulty because Mr M was experiencing temporary financial difficulty 
does not make sense to me and does not seem fair and reasonable - nor did it follow the 
FCA guidance. 
Ive also considered that Mr M had to pay a lump sum towards the agreement in order to the 
get the deferral approved  this also doesnt seem reasonable to me and Im satisfied this 
wouldve likely caused further issues with his finances.
Customer service
It isnt in dispute in this case that the service Mr M experienced on the phone fell below what 
was expected, as VWFS have upheld this part of his complaint.
But, for the sake of completeness I think its worth commenting briefly on this. Having 
listened to the call with Mr M, there was significant confusion about what forms had been 
completed. Im satisfied he was given the impression his application for a payment deferral 
was approved when it wasnt. He was also given unclear information about when this would 
apply from and if it could be backdated or not. 
Overall, Im satisfied the service Mr M received on this call fell below what he couldve 
expected. And, Im satisfied later finding out the payment deferral wasnt approved wouldve 
caused him distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
On the phone with VWFS Mr M explained he would be in a position to start paying his 
normal monthly payments towards the agreement from June 2020. He asked for the 
payment deferral to be backdated to March and April, so his credit file wouldnt be affected 
by the missed payments.
Ive thought about the impact of what went wrong here. As Ive explained above, I think 
VWFS shouldve approved Mr Ms payment deferral when he asked for one. But, I do need 
to consider that a deferral was later approved for three months in June 2020. Given Mr M 
had explained to VWFS in May that he would be able to start paying from June, Im satisfied 
this payment deferral wouldve given Mr M the chance to get back on track with his finances.
I have considered that Mr M had to make a lump sum payment of £1,844 in June 2020 in 
order to get the payment deferral approved. Mr M said he had to borrow money for this. But, 
I need to consider that hed told VWFS he could make his normal monthly payment in June, 
which was half of this amount. So, I dont think this wouldve had as big an impact as it 
initially appears. And, I havent seen anything to suggest Mr M lost out financially by 
borrowing this money.
Thinking about what VWFS did here, I was pleased to hear it has amended Mr Ms credit file 
to not show any adverse information. But, I dont think £100 is enough to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
I have considered what Mr M thought would be reasonable to put things right. But, I dont 
think it would be appropriate to make an award on this complaint involving his new car or 
any associated finance. So, Im going to consider a payment to Mr M instead.
I was sorry to read about the situation with Mr Ms family member and can appreciate this 
must have been an extremely difficult time. But, Im only considering an award for distress 
and inconvenience specifically caused by what VWFS did wrong. Having thought about everything, I agree with our investigator that in addition to already amending his credit file 
and paying Mr M £100 VWFS should pay Mr M another £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services to 
pay Mr M £100 in addition to the £100 it has already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman