DRN-4418592
The complaint
Mr D complains that Coventry Building Society (CBS) automatically reinvested his funds 
from a matured ISA into another ISA which led to him being charged an early exit penalty 
charge when he transferred the funds. He would like the penalty charge to be repaid. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and the facts arent in dispute. So 
I wont repeat them again here, instead Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate Mr Ds frustration in incurring a penalty when he transferred his ISA funds. I 
have seen the various pieces of correspondence CBS sent in relation to this. When he 
opened his account, the terms stated that unless instructed otherwise prior to maturity funds 
would be automatically reinvested at maturity into another ISA. It also set out the charge if 
the funds were withdrawn after a cancellation/cooling off period and that the charge would 
be equal to 90 calendar days of interest on the money remaining in the account at the time 
of closure. So Mr D would have been aware of that when he opened the account.
Mr D was sent a pre-maturity email on 9 May 2023 letting him know that the ISA was due to 
mature and setting out options available to him. CBS have confirmed that between 9 May 
and 21 June 2023 Mr D accessed his online services three times, but he didnt provide any 
instructions on what he wanted to do with the ISA at maturity.  
CBS has also sent a further letter to Mr D which said if it didnt hear back with further 
instructions, it would re-invest all savings into a similar account. As Mr D didnt go back to 
CBS with alternative instructions within the given timescale his funds were automatically 
transferred into another ISA as per the previous letters and original terms and conditions. I 
dont think CBS were wrong to do this, it had given notice of what would happen if no 
instructions were received, and none were.
CBS then sent a post maturity letter dated 5 June 2023 to confirm the reinvestment and this 
letter stated that he could withdraw his funds without penalty during the cooling off period. 
The cooling off period was detailed in the information CBS included with its previous 
correspondence. I appreciate Mr D says the penalty clause wasnt clear, but it was within the 
information sent. And I understand he did get the correspondence CBS sent. However, the 
letter of 5 June 2023 also said he could get in touch with CBS about the cooling off period 
So, I do believe the information was available to him.
Mr D would have known the maturity date when he took out the ISA so would have been 
broadly aware of the timescale to decide what to do with the funds, and what would happen 
if he didnt give instructions including what the potential penalty could be. If he wasnt clear 
he could have contacted CBS. As I dont believe that CBS has done anything wrong or that 
the penalty charge applied was unfair, I cant reasonably ask it to refund the penalty charge 
which it has applied in line with terms Mr D agreed to. 
While Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of CBS here.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman