DRN-2799178
Complaint
Ms F is unhappy that Barclays Bank PLC didnt do more to help her when she was the victim 
of a scam.    
Background
Ms F has an account with Barclays. In December 2018, she was in the process of buying a 
house. She used her Barclays account to make two substantial payments to the solicitor who 
was carrying out the conveyancing work for her. The first payment was for £50,000 and the 
second was for £45,750.
Unfortunately, just before making these payments Ms F had received an email from 
someone purporting to be her solicitor. She had previously paid a small fee to her solicitor to 
cover various expenses associated with the conveyancing process. However, this email said 
that the account she needed to pay the deposit to had changed and it provided her with 
updated account details. That email had been sent by a fraudster who substituted the 
solicitors bank account details for their own.
After sending the first payment, Ms F received a text message from Barclays to confirm that 
the payment instruction had genuinely been given by her. She responded to that message 
affirmatively and the payment was released. Shortly after making that payment, she received 
a further email from the fraudster telling her that the next payment would need to be made to 
a different account. It said this was because an account audit was taking place on the other 
account. 
Ms F took this explanation at face value and authorised the second payment. It was blocked 
by Barclays until she called and spoke with a bank employee. During that conversation, she 
was asked some general questions about the property she was buying and whether she was 
happy to make the payment. She mentioned during that call that shed received a last-
minute email changing the account details.
The receiving bank for the second payment was concerned it might be fraudulent. It 
contacted Barclays to let it know. Barclays contacted Ms F and advised that she check 
whether the payments had been received by her intended recipient. She called her solicitor 
and discovered that they had not. At that point, Ms F realised that shed fallen victim to a 
scam. Barclays contacted the receiving bank for the second payment and was able to 
recover £4,470.12  but the rest of Ms Fs money had been withdrawn by the fraudster and 
was therefore irrecoverable.
Ms F complained to Barclays that it hadnt done enough to protect her from the scam. 
Barclays declined to pay her a refund. It accepted it had caused confusion by not attempting 
to recover her funds from the receiving bank immediately, even though this wouldnt have 
made a difference because the funds were quickly moved out of the receiving account. It 
paid her £150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this had caused.
Ms F was unhappy with this response and so she referred a complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator pointed out that good industry 
practice demanded that Barclays be on the lookout for out of character or unusual 
transactions that might suggest that Ms F was at risk of falling victim to a scam. 
She found that these two payments were out of character and that Barclays shouldnt have 
processed them without making further enquiries with Ms F. If it had done so, she found it 
likely that Ms F wouldve carried out further checks by calling her solicitor to ensure the 
emails shed received were legitimate. The scam would therefore have been prevented, and 
Ms F wouldnt have lost out.
She also pointed out that a Barclays employee spoke to Ms F in connection with the second 
payment and Ms F pointed out that there had been a last-minute change in the account 
details. The Investigator thought this was a clear warning sign. It ought to have been a major 
cause for concern given that this is a commonly occurring feature of scams.
At the same time that she made this complaint against Barclays, Ms F engaged the services 
of a solicitor to attempt to recover her losses from the conveyancing solicitor. She began 
legal proceedings alleging that the conveyancing solicitor had been negligent in allowing its 
systems to be compromised and therefore exposing her to the risk of an email interception 
scam. 
As I understand it, a referral was made by the court to a mediation process so that the 
dispute between Ms F and her solicitor could be resolved without the need for it to be 
considered by the court. An agreement was reached between the parties following 
mediation. The court approved a Tomlin order allowing either party to apply to the court to 
enforce the agreement if necessary, but the terms of that agreement remain confidential to 
the parties. Shortly afterwards, I can see that the conveyancing solicitors insurers paid Ms F 
the sum of £56,897.93.
The Investigator wanted to ensure that there was no double recovery on Ms Fs part. She 
recommended Barclays refund her the two payments but that it should deduct the funds it 
recovered from the receiving bank and the funds Ms F was paid by the conveyancing 
solicitor. That meant that she recommended Barclays refund the remainder of Ms Fs losses 
(£34,381.95) and add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum.
Barclays disagreed with the Investigators opinion. It said that it wasnt clear why the 
conveyancing solicitor had only paid Ms F partial compensation and wanted to know more 
about the agreement that had been reached. The Investigator contacted all the parties to the 
mediation, but no copy of the agreement is available. Nonetheless, the conveyancing 
solicitor gave an explanation as to why (in his view) Ms F was only awarded partial 
damages. He said that, after looking at how the scam took place, it was agreed that Ms F 
had been contributorily negligent  that is, that she should properly be considered partially 
responsible for her losses because she acted carelessly. There were several reasons 
offered to justify this deduction, which are detailed below.
Ms F doesnt have a copy of the agreement either, but her account of the mediation is 
different. She told us that she was advised to accept a partial settlement from the solicitor 
because shed be able to recover the remainder of her losses by bringing a complaint 
against Barclays.
In the light of the information that the Investigator uncovered from the conveyancing solicitor, 
Barclays said it didnt think it should be expected to pay any redress to Ms F. It argued that 
Ms F and the conveyancing solicitor had agreed to split liability for the losses between them. 
It also said that it agreed with the solicitors comments that Ms F had been contributorily 
negligent. Barclays echoed the reasons given by the conveyancing solicitor and argued (amongst other 
things) that:
Ms F didnt heed the warning given by the solicitor in its client care letter which 
explained that theyd never request funds from a client by email.
The emails she received from the scammer were in broken English.
Ms F shouldve found it strange to receive an email from her solicitor at 6:30am, 
particularly given that she knew her solicitor was in the advanced stages of 
pregnancy.
Ms F admitted that she sent the funds without consulting her husband and that the 
solicitor had described this as impulsive.
Because Barclays disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and issue a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common ground that Ms F authorised the scam payments. She was duped into 
instructing Barclays to transfer those sums. This was an authorised payment even though 
Ms F was clearly the victim of a sophisticated scam. She used her security credentials to 
request the payments and so, although she did not intend for the money to go to scammers, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im persuaded that there were clear indicators that Ms F was at risk of fraud. These 
transactions were out of character and so ought to have attracted closer scrutiny on 
Barclays part. Statement information regarding Ms Fs account for the months leading up to 
these transfers shows that there were no outbound payments comparable with these two in 
terms of size. She did make two large transactions (£25,000 and £135,000 respectively) 
earlier in 2018 but these were transfers between her own accounts.   I dont think Barclays shouldve processed these payments without carrying out further 
enquiries to satisfy itself that Ms F wasnt at risk of financial harm. I can see that it sent a text 
message to Ms F in connection with the first payment to confirm that it was her that had 
given the instruction. But a confirmatory text message wouldnt be effective in protecting her 
from an email interception scam such as this one. 
The second payment was blocked, and Ms F was required to call Barclays to have it 
unblocked. She spoke with an employee of the bank who asked her some background 
questions about the property she was buying. It came to light during that conversation that 
Ms F had been asked to make the second payment to a different account. Unfortunately, this 
wasnt picked up on by the bank employee. That was unfortunate because an email 
changing payment details at the last minute is a commonly occurring feature of scams of this 
kind and Id have expected an employee of the bank to have some awareness of that. 
I think if the Barclays employee had discussed the significance of that change with Ms F and 
encouraged her to call the solicitor to confirm the account details, I find it highly likely shed 
have done so given how much money would be at risk if shed proceeded with the payment. 
I also think its likely that, if a conversation had taken place in relation to the first payment, 
its likely Ms F wouldve also told Barclays that the account details had been recently 
changed. If shed been encourage to call her solicitor to check whether these emails were 
legitimate, both scam payments would have been prevented.
Contributory negligence
As Barclays has pointed out, Ms F reached a mediated settlement with the conveyancing 
solicitor. The solicitor has given us his account of the meeting at which the settlement was 
discussed and said that it was agreed that Ms Fs damages should be reduced on the 
grounds that she had been contributorily negligent.
The Investigator has made extensive efforts to obtain any evidence to explain the basis on 
which the settlement was reached. Ms F doesnt have a copy of the settlement, and nor do 
the defendant solicitor, the solicitor who acted on her behalf in her claim or the barrister who 
ran the mediation meeting. 
The Investigator also asked the barrister who chaired the hearing and Ms Fs solicitor 
whether they had any notes from the meeting that might help determine the basis on which 
that agreement was reached. Unfortunately, this wasnt successful either. The only account I 
have of this meeting was shared with our Investigator by the conveyancing solicitor many 
months after the hearing took place. It isnt contemporaneous and it was written by the 
defendant to Ms Fs claim, so Im cautious about attaching too much weight to those 
comments. 
It doesnt automatically follow that, simply because the settlement included a reduction for 
contributory negligence, Ms F admitted to it. There are other equally plausible reasons why 
Ms F might have agreed to the settlement. Once a settlement was proposed, Ms F needed 
to decide whether it was advisable to accept it or take the risk of pursuing her case to a full 
trial. Its equally likely that she discussed the risk that a judge might make a finding of 
contributory negligence and Ms F simply didnt want to take the risk, particularly given that 
this partial offer was a sure thing.
Overall, I dont think theres a strong enough case to say that Ms F conceded that shed 
been contributorily negligent. I therefore think its for me as the determining ombudsman to 
decide whether Ms F can fairly and reasonably be considered partially responsible for her 
losses. Ive considered that question carefully. In doing so, Ive borne in mind the relevant law on 
contributory negligence but also the requirement that I decide this case on the basis of what 
I consider to be fair and reasonable. Overall, Im satisfied that she shouldnt be considered 
partially responsible for her losses. This was a sophisticated scam executed in such a 
fashion to as to persuade Ms F that she was legitimately communicating with the 
conveyancing solicitor. The emails she received from the scammers were largely 
indistinguishable from legitimate emails. It referred to the correct property and to a legal 
search that Ms F was expecting to conclude imminently. I dont think Ms F wouldve have 
had any reasonable grounds for doubting their authenticity.
With the benefit of hindsight, there are clearly some subtle differences that have been 
highlighted. For example, its been argued that Ms F shouldve noticed that the missing 
disclaimer in the footer of the email. I wouldnt reasonably expect Ms F to forensically 
examine an email from her solicitor that looked substantially genuine at first glance and I 
dont think she can be said to have knowingly taken a risk by not doing so.
The disclaimer in earlier emails from the solicitor also said that the bank account details will 
never change and that clients should call if they receive an email that says otherwise. But 
this warning isnt given any particular prominence and Ms F wouldve needed to read the 
email with an exceptional degree of careful attention for it to have given rise to any doubt in 
her mind about the legitimacy of the sender. I dont think the fact that Ms F didnt read that 
disclaimer means that she can be said to have been careless.
I accept it would be unusual for the solicitor to change the account details twice during the 
period of a single transaction. The argument that she needed to make the payment to a 
different account because an audit was being conducted wouldnt be persuasive to someone 
with a detailed understanding of how a conveyancing solicitor is likely to operate. But I think 
the explanation that the scammer fabricated was plausible to a non-specialist.
Im similarly unpersuaded that Ms F shouldve been suspicious at receiving an email at 
6:30am, even if she knew her solicitor to be in the late stages of pregnancy. Its not 
implausible for an employee of a busy law firm to be working at unsocial hours or for the 
solicitor to have delayed taking maternity leave. I dont find it to be sufficiently unusual that it 
ought to have put Ms F on notice that she was at risk of fraud. 
I find the argument that she was impulsive because she didnt consult her husband to be 
particularly unpersuasive. On the face of it, this was a simple transaction which was 
completed quickly. I dont find there was anything about the surrounding circumstances that 
would (to the reasonable person) have made them want to discuss the transaction with 
someone close to them before proceeding.
Overall, Im satisfied that Ms F fell victim to a sophisticated scam and cant be said to have 
acted carelessly. I therefore dont find it fair and reasonable for Barclays to make a 
deduction from any redress that is due on the grounds of contributory negligence.   
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
If Ms F accepts my decision, Barclays Bank UK PLC needs to:
Refund the payments Ms F made to the scammer, less a deduction for the money it 
was able to recover from the receiving bank and the funds Ms F recovered from her 
solicitor.Pay 8% simple interest per annum on these payments from the date they were made 
until the date it pays her the settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman