DRN-2568230
The complaint
Mr M complains that American International Group UK Limited (American International) 
unfairly declined a claim he made under his personal accident cover.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr M holds personal accident cover with American International.
In July 2020 he was injured while playing football  tearing the meniscus in his right 
knee. This meant he was unable to work for several months following this.
Mr M made a claim under his personal accident policy. American International 
considered this but declined the claim, saying the incident wasnt an accident in line 
with the terms of the policy. And this was because injuries are known to happen and 
not unexpected when playing football. 
Mr M complained but American International said it had reached the right decision. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it, saying the claim had 
been declined fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
Mr M disagreed  saying he had read the policy wording and believed he would be 
covered for any form of injury or illness. And he described American Internationals 
decision as unsympathetic.
So the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms policy covers him for temporary total disablement following a bodily injury as a 
result of an accident.
American International hasnt disputed that Mr M suffered a bodily injury or that was 
temporarily disabled by this event. But it has said the cause of the injury was not an 
accident in line with the policy terms. 
Accident is defined within the policy as a sudden, unexpected and specific event 
external to the body which occurs at an identifiable time and place. Ive read the 
policy carefully and Im satisfied an incident will need to meet these criteria to be 
covered under the policy.
American International has argued that the football game injury was not unexpected. 
And this is where Mr M disagrees.
Mr M has told us he attends a regular football match each week and injured himself 
while kicking a ball. Given the type of activity described, this seems like an expected 
activity to take place during a game of this nature. While Mr M may not have 
expected to injury his knee as he did, the policy asks whether the event was 
unexpected  not the consequences of it.
Ive been given nothing to suggest there was anything unexpected or unusual about 
the occasion when Mr M kicked the ball, other than his injury. So, in turn Im satisfied 
this incident doesnt meet the definition of an accident under the policy terms. And 
American International has declined the claim fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman