DRN-2290552
The complaint
Mrs A is complaining that Covea Insurance plc have voided her home contents insurance 
policy and refused to pay her claim for flood damage.
What happened
Covea declined Mrs As claim after a flood in November 2019. Theyd found that Mrs As 
property had both residential and commercial areas in it, separated by a lockable door. They 
said they wouldnt have offered her insurance if theyd known that. They voided the policy 
from its inception, because they felt Mrs A had misrepresented that her home wasnt being 
used for any business or trade. This led to Mrs As claim being declined.
Mrs A felt this was unfair. She said shed been using a broker to get her insurance, and had 
told them in 2006 about the layout of her property. She added that shed answered the 
questions about her property in the same way at each policy renewal since then. And she 
noted a claim for flood damage in 2007 had been paid without any problems. 
Our investigator thought Mrs As complaint should be upheld. She thought Mrs A had taken 
reasonable care when answering the questions about her home. So, she thought Mrs A 
hadnt made a qualifying misrepresentation and therefore that Covea shouldnt have voided 
her policy. Our investigator said Covea should reinstate Mrs As policy and reassess her 
claim. And she said they should pay Mrs A £100 compensation as well.
Covea disagreed with our investigator. They said they couldnt comment on Mrs As previous 
claim as they werent the underwriters at the time. And they reiterated that the property has 
two sections  one commercial and one private. They said that although both sections have 
their own separate entrance, they have a door between them internally  which means the 
two sections arent totally self-contained. They also reiterated that if theyd known the 
property had a commercial shop and residence on the same postcode they wouldnt have 
offered cover. Covea asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea think Mrs A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
took out her contents insurance policy. They say Mrs A made misrepresentations when she 
answered the following questions:
Is your home self contained with its own lockable entrance door? Answered Yes
Is your home used for any business or trade in addition to use for domestic 
purposes? Answered No
Ive looked at these questions and Im satisfied Mrs A did take reasonable care. Mrs A 
considers her home to be where she lives. In her opinion this is completely separate from 
where the business is conducted. The policy documents dont contain any definition of the 
term self-contained, but the Oxford English Dictionary defines it in relation to 
accommodation as: having its own kitchen and bathroom, and typically its own private 
entrance. Its clear to me that Mrs As residence meets this definition and that the lockable 
door through to the art gallery isnt relevant to this question.
Ive thought about the definition of home and whether its reasonable for Mrs A to consider 
this to cover only the residential part of her property. The policy booklet for Mrs As 
insurance defines home as The house, bungalow, flat or maisonette shown in the 
Statement of Insurance Looking at Mrs As statement of insurance, I cant see mention of 
a house, bungalow, flat or maisonette. It simply mentions the address. Given that Mrs A was 
looking to insure only the contents of her residence (and not the gallery), I can understand 
her interpretation being that her home constituted only her residence, even though the 
address was shared between both parts of her property.
Covea state that if theyd known that the residence and gallery shared a postal address and 
title deeds then they wouldnt have provided cover. But Im not satisfied their questions were 
clear enough to establish whether or not this was the case.
All of this is before I consider whats happened before. Mrs A says she spoke with her broker 
in 2006 about her property because she knew it wasnt straightforward. From what shes 
said, the conversation was detailed and included details such as the need for commercial 
insurance and how the roof would be covered. The broker hasnt been able to provide a 
recording of the call, but I dont doubt the conversation took place. Based on this, Im 
satisfied Mrs A took reasonable care when she was first looking for insurance. The layout of 
her property hasnt changed since then, so Im satisfied its reasonable that shes continued 
to answer the same questions in the same way. 
Mrs As assumption that she was answering the questions correctly was further reinforced by 
a successful claim in 2007. Whilst I appreciate this was with a different underwriter, it adds 
weight to Mrs As opinion that her home means her residence and not her art gallery.  
Having concluded that Mrs A did take reasonable care, Im satisfied there was no qualifying 
misrepresentation and that the actions taken by Covea are unfair and not in line with CIDRA.Putting things right
To put things right, Covea need to put Mrs A in the position shed have been in if they hadnt 
voided her policy. That means they need to reinstate Mrs As policy from its inception (in 
2015) and reassess her 2019 claim against the policy terms. They also need to remove any 
record of the voided policy.
In addition, Covea should pay Mrs A some compensation for the upset this has caused her. 
Mrs A was understandably very upset when she was first told that the claim wouldnt be paid 
 the cost of the items lost in the flood was substantial. And she was upset about how the 
voided policy might impact her ability to get insurance in the future. 
Shes told us that she was repeatedly given conflicting information about how much she 
might or might not be paid. For example, despite the voiding of the policy in November 2019, 
the loss adjustors made her a settlement offer of around £17,500 in late February 2020 
before withdrawing this and instead eventually paying her around £1,150 for items theyd 
inadvertently disposed of. This conflicting information made it very difficult for Mrs A to make 
decisions about purchases to replace the items theyd lost. 
Mrs As husband was unwell so she had to manage all of this on her own at the same time 
as caring for him  I can appreciate how stressful and upsetting it must have been. This took 
place over a period of several months when she was unable to use her kitchen, utility room 
and the main living areas of her home  having to install a sink into the bedroom so they 
could wash the dishes.
Taking all of this into account, I think Covea should pay compensation of £500 to Mrs A. As 
this figure is more than our investigator suggested, I put it to Covea and Mrs A before I wrote 
my decision. Both parties accepted it. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs As complaint. Im directing Covea Insurance plc 
to reinstate Mrs As policy from its inception and to reassess her 2019 claim. They also need 
to remove any record of the voided policy. And Im directing them to pay compensation of 
£500 to Mrs A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman