DRN-2763264
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about a bike insurance policy with Hiscox Underwriting Services Ltd.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr A made a claim for a stolen bike. In June 2020, while Hiscox was still  
considering the first claim, Mr A made a second claim for personal injury and damage to 
another bike. 
Hiscox raised some concerns about the second claim with Mr A, including that the metadata 
from the photos he had provided of his injuries showed they were taken before the date he 
said hed had his accident. Then, in October 2020, Hiscox notified Mr A it was refusing his 
first claim, as it was not satisfied that he owned the bike being claimed for. Hiscox believes 
Mr A was making a fraudulent claim and so it cancelled his policy with effect from May 2020. 
It therefore said there was no policy in force at the time of the second claim and so also 
refused that one. 
One of our investigators concluded Hiscox was entitled to terminate the policy and so there 
was effectively no cover in place at the time of the second claim. He did not therefore 
recommend that this complaint be upheld. Mr A doesnt accept this, so the matter has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have dealt with the complaint about the refusal of the first claim and termination of the 
policy separately. In my decision about that complaint, I concluded that Hiscox had been 
entitled, based on the evidence it had, to take that action. 
It is a matter of insurance law and legislation (including The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representation) Act) that an insurer has the right to cancel a policy in such 
circumstances and decline any other pending claims.  The policy was cancelled with effect 
from May 2020.
Mr As personal injury and accidental damage claim, was lodged after the theft claim.
As there was no policy effectively in place at the time of Mr As second claim in June 2020, I 
am satisfied that Hiscox doesnt have to consider the claim any further.
   
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman