DRN-3634151
The complaint
Miss T complains that Monzo Bank Ltd has recorded a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database.
What happened
Miss T says that she found out about the marker when she tried to apply for a product at a 
different financial business. And this led to her other bank account being closed. She says 
that this has made things difficult for her and that she has had to pay for a fee-based 
account and hasnt been able to borrow money.
Monzo Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. It had received a report that a credit of £56.99 
into Miss Ts account on 6 December 2020 had been obtained fraudulently. Miss T had 
accessed this money and had closed her account the day before the report came in. So, it 
added the marker as she had retained a wrongfully obtained credit.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. There was a high bar for 
adding a CIFAS marker. And wed expect Monzo Bank to have attempted to contact Miss T 
at the time for her explanation. It didnt do so, and Miss T had provided a plausible 
explanation for the money in that shed been selling items online. She no longer had any 
documentation about this given the passage of time. Monzo Bank hadnt actually closed the 
account. Our investigator said that the CIFAS marker should be removed and Miss T paid 
£500 in compensation for the distress caused to her.
Monzo Bank didnt agree. It said that Miss T had complained to CIFAS and it hadnt upheld 
that complaint. It provided details of two other fraud reports which it said provided 
compelling evidence. And it thought Miss T had closed the account because of this activity. 
It said that it didnt see it had to contact her about what happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention. 
I note that the report of fraud that Monzo Bank relied on initially when providing its business 
file to this service related to the payment mentioned above. The report about this was 
received on 19 December 2020 and the CIFAS marker applied on 22 December 2020. I 
infer that the further reports about payments of £38.90 on 10 December 2020 and £28.90 
on 13 December 2020 were received subsequently. In any event it isnt clear to me that 
Monzo Bank relied on those at the time the CIFAS marker was applied.
I appreciate that Monzo Bank provided information to CIFAS when Miss T complained. But 
I cant see that any explanation from Miss T about what happened had been taken into 
account or discussed with her. When reviewing complaints, we would do that, and this can 
distinguish as here the assessment we make of what is fair and reasonable.
It is also the case that the account had been closed by the time of the fraud report. So, I 
can see why Monzo Bank may have been less likely to contact Miss T. And as she had 
decided she didnt want the account then it may have been unlikely shed have engaged 
with any contact. But the point is she wasnt given the opportunity to do so. I dont put any 
weight in this complaint on Miss T rather that Monzo Bank closing the account: its clear to 
me that this was the action it would have otherwise taken as part of the criteria for a 
marker.
Miss Ts explanation is that that she was selling small personal items to pay for family 
expenses. I note that there were similar credits to her account. She says she was selling 
these on social media and doesnt now have any information about them. As I say the 
further reports have only been provided to this service at a late stage in our investigation. I 
would have expected Miss T to be able to evidence that she had sold legitimate goods at 
the time. In view of what seemed to be the relatively small scale of her activity and that she 
wasnt made aware of the specific concerns then or even when she later complained to 
Monzo Bank I dont think it unreasonable she has little to provide about what she would 
characterise as a buyer seller dispute.
Frankly there were grounds for suspicion when the marker was added. But Im not 
persuaded that Monzo Bank has been able to demonstrate that it met the standard of proof 
for a CIFAS marker having considered what Miss T has said. 
So, I agree that the marker should be removed. A marker on a database shouldnt lead to 
automatic refusal of a financial product. Here Miss T has recently explained again the 
ongoing distress and inconvenience caused by the marker and I dont see a basis to depart 
from the recommended compensation for that. Monzo Bank clearly disagrees with this 
outcome and although Miss T has asked it to issue a letter of apology saying it was wrong I 
dont think thats appropriate in these circumstances. Miss T has this decision to explain my 
assessment of what happened.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Limited to remove the 
CIFAS marker and pay Miss T £500 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman