DRN-2322261
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are complaining that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) voided their car 
insurance policy and refused to pay their claim.
What happened 
Mr M took out a car insurance policy in October 2017, via a broker, and it was automatically 
renewed in October 2018 and October 2019. Mr M was the policyholder and Mrs M was a 
named driver on the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ms car was stolen in April 2020. They reported the theft to their insurer, CIS, 
and tried to make a claim. But CIS told Mr M that his insurance policy had been voided 
because he and his wife hadnt disclosed Mrs Ms speeding conviction from December 2017. 
CIS explained to Mr M that if theyd known about Mrs Ms speeding conviction, they wouldnt 
have continued to offer to insure Mr M and his wife. They said theyd have deemed the risk 
unacceptable. Thats why they voided the policy from the renewal after the speeding offence 
occurred.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy so they brought their complaint to our service. They said their 
non-disclosure of Mrs Ms conviction was an innocent error  theyd completely forgotten 
about the points. Mr M added that hed have been happy to remove his wife from the policy 
when she incurred the points. He also pointed out that the theft of his car from his driveway 
had nothing to do with who was named on the policy or how many penalty points they had. 
So he thought the innocent misrepresentation wasnt relevant to his insurance claim.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs M complaint should be upheld. She said CIS hadnt 
shown that they wouldnt have offered Mr M cover as the sole driver if theyd known about 
Mrs Ms speeding conviction. So she said CIS needed to reinstate Mr Ms policy and 
consider the claim. And she suggested CIS should pay Mr and Mrs M £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience theyd caused by incorrectly voiding the policy and declining the claim.
CIS disagreed with our investigator. They said that Mr Ms policy renewal was administered 
by a broker. And they said that if Mr M had disclosed Mrs Ms conviction to the broker, he 
would have been told that CIS couldnt quote for his renewal because of their underwriting 
rules.  CIS said that Mr M would have had to get a new quote in Mr Ms name only.  
Because CIS didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
CIS think Mr M failed to take reasonable care when his insurance renewed in 2018 and he 
didnt disclose Mrs Ms speeding convictions. I agree. I can see that the documents that 
were sent to Mr M made it clear that he needed to check the details and let his insurer know 
if anything wasnt correct. The statement of insurance is clear that its based on Mrs M not 
having had any driving convictions in the previous five years. So, I agree that Mr M didnt 
take reasonable care when renewing his car insurance.
Having decided that Mr M didnt take reasonable care, I have to consider what CIS would 
have done if theyd known about Mrs Ms speeding conviction. CIS have been clear that they 
wouldnt have accepted the risk of having Mrs M on the policy. And their internal 
documentation clearly states they would have declined to insure Mr M with Mrs M as a 
named driver. This means Im satisfied Mr Ms failure to disclose Mrs Ms speeding 
conviction was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
CIS havent considered whether Mr Ms misrepresentation was careless, reckless or 
deliberate. So Ive thought about this. From everything Mr M has told us, it seems it simply 
didnt occur to him to read through the renewal documents or disclose his wifes driving 
conviction because the policy renewed automatically. Im satisfied this wasnt a deliberate 
attempt to conceal information from the insurer. And I dont think it was reckless  Mr Ms 
said that if hed been asked a direct question at renewal he would have told them about 
Mrs Ms speeding conviction. For this reason Im satisfied it was a careless 
misrepresentation. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ms misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions CIS can take in accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA says that for a careless misrepresentation an insurer can only void the policy and 
refuse all claims if it wouldnt have provided insurance on any terms. CIS have told us 
Mr Ms renewal would have been declined if hed contacted the broker  but that he would 
have been able to take out a new policy with CIS without the named driver. And theyve told 
us that if it had been a direct CIS policy theyd have been able to renew his policy without 
Mrs M on the policy. 
The intention of CIDRA is to establish whether CIS would have accepted the risk of insuring 
Mr M  and if so, on what terms. From what CIS have said, its clear that any possible 
difficulty in insuring Mr M would have arisen through the process rather than because of the 
risk. Im satisfied CIS would have accepted the risk of insuring Mr M without Mrs M as a 
named driver on his policy, so they shouldnt have voided Mr Ms policy. 
Instead, CIDRA says that CIS should treat the policy as if it had been renewed on terms that 
were acceptable. So, they should treat the policy as if it had been provided to Mr M without Mrs M as a named driver.
Putting things right
CIS need to put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd have been in if they hadnt incorrectly 
voided his policy. This means they should treat his policy as if it had been provided to Mr M 
without Mrs M as a named driver from the date of the renewal in October 2018, and 
reassess Mr Ms insurance claim for the theft of his car under the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
CIS should also remove all records of the policy voidance and write to Mr M stating that the 
policy was voided in error. 
In addition, CIS should compensate Mr and Mrs M for the inconvenience and upset this has 
caused them. Mr Ms told us that they cant get insurance because of the voided policy. So 
theyve been unable to replace the family car. Instead, Mr M and his family have had to rely 
on using business vehicles for personal use and thats meant taking two vehicles instead of 
one, causing extra expense and inconvenience. Our investigator suggested £150 would be 
fair compensation and Im satisfied this is a reasonable amount. While Mr and Mrs M havent 
had the use of their own car, they have had access to other vehicles to allow him and his 
family to travel.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. CIS 
General Insurance Limited need to:
Treat Mr Ms policy as if it had been provided to Mr M without any named drivers 
from the date of renewal in October 2018;
Reassess Mr Ms claim for the theft of the car under the remaining policy terms and 
conditions;
Remove all records of Mr Ms policy voidance and provide Mr M with a letter stating 
that his policy was voided in error; and
Pay Mr and Mrs M £150 compensation for the upset and inconvenience the voided 
policy has caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman