DRN-3584067
The complaint
Mr A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have unfairly settled his
claim on his buildings insurance policy following an escape of water. He wants the claim
settled and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
In early 2018 Mr A says he noticed damp patches on the interior walls of his home. His
builder carried out extensive works, replacing timber floors with concrete and stripping
interior walls back to brick before boarding and plastering. But a few months later the damp
patches returned. The builder applied a waterproof sealer before reboarding the walls but
soon the damp patches returned. In August 2018 the utility company advised there was a
leak from the water main under Mr As house, which was his responsibility. Mr A called RSA
on 4 October 2018.
RSA sent a contractor who rerouted the water main under Mr As house. It said to resolve
the damp problem a strip out was required. It installed humidifiers and heaters to dry the
property. RSA agreed to provide alternative accommodation (AA) but says Mr A rejected a
number of suitable properties, greatly delaying the strip out works. It says it eventually
agreed to provide a more expensive property in order to progress the claim with AA not
being in place until October 2019.
Much of what happened subsequently is disputed and with conflicting expert reports being
relied on by RSA and Mr A.
In summary:
The main dispute relates to whether the property was sufficiently dry to enable repairs and
what works were needed. RSA says the property was dry enough for work to start in
February 2020. It said certain works that Mr A wanted were improvements, which the policy
didnt cover. It said some initial plastering works completed by Mr As own contractor then
caused long delays. RSA says its contractor was ready to start in March 2021, but Mr A
refused to sign the contract. RSA says this caused problems and costs for its contractor.
Mr A says he wanted to use RSAs contractor but not until the property was sufficiently dry
for work to commence. In March 2021 RSA said it would stop the AA and cash settle the
claim if Mr A didnt want the work to go ahead. Mr A says he didnt want the claim cash
settled and complained to RSA. It rejected his complaint on 26 May 2021. It said it would
cash settle the claim and end the AA on 22 July 2021, which allowed enough time for the
necessary work to be completed.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. He made a number of points, principally:
RSA had cash settled the claim against his wishes, leaving him without
contractors to complete the work and the settlement of £29,630 was
inadequate and shouldnt be the final amount.
RSA shouldnt have ended the AA when it did as works hadnt been
undertaken.
RSAs proposals to deal with damp rising through the floor were inadequate
Prior to the leak and the damage caused hed spent £40,000 refurbishing the 
property and that RSA should reimburse this wasted expenditure
Our investigator looked into it, but he didnt uphold the complaint.
He said RSA hadnt acted unreasonably in ending the AA around five months after its
contractor had been ready to start repairs that were expected to take five to six weeks. He
said the policy didnt provide for much of what Mr A wanted to be done. He said RSA had
treated Mr A fairly as the purpose of his policy was to restore his home to the condition it
was in before the leak, not to improve it. Our investigator said based on the scope of works
required to reinstate the property he thought the settlement paid by RSA was fair.
Mr A disagreed. He provided expert reports and said various issues such as the electrical
wiring, holes left in the paving and the refitting of his kitchen hadnt been considered. His
most recent report, prepared by a surveyor, noted the dispute between experts as to what
works were needed.
The report said the property was still excessively damp in some areas with damp trapped
beneath waterproof flooring which should be lifted to facilitate drying. It said the moisture
readings taken in March 2021 were too high to allow completion of repairs then. Mr A also
said he was struggling to pay rent and bills whilst his home remained unhabitable. He said
no contractors were prepared to work on the electrics and his home had no gas or kitchen.
Our investigator considered the further evidence and points from Mr A. He said the
complaint should be upheld in part.
He said RSA should take responsibility for the following works:
Removal of the existing hallway floor
Drying of areas affected by the original leak
Installation of a new floor laid on a damp-proof membrane
Provide AA during the works
RSA referred Mr As reports to its own experts. It rejected Mr As surveyors conclusions and
said the work recommended wasnt covered by the policy.
As RSA doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 25 May 2022. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning to uphold the complaint in part. To be clear to Mr A I dont think
RSA treated him unfairly by ending the AA and cash settling the claim. But there are several
areas where further clarification is required as to whether the settlement amount is fairbefore I make my final decision.
This is a complex claim with disagreement between experts on the works required. Ive
considered all the points made by Mr A including those further to our investigators second
view. Mr A has raised concerns about the financial difficulties he faces in continuing to rent
accommodation whilst his home remains unrepaired and I appreciate this is a difficult
situation for him.
RSA has provided a detailed history of the claim, the specialist reports obtained, and its
experts have refuted Mr As surveyors recommendations. At this stage, Im persuaded by
RSAs arguments although I think some further clarification over the electrical work and
repairs to the holes in the paving is required. But on the main points I think RSA has treated
Mr A fairly. Im aware that this will disappointment Mr A, so Ill explain why I think this.
A large insurance claim requiring significant repairs is always going to cause a great deal of
inconvenience and stress. Ive thought carefully about what the main issues are from which I
think many of the other complaint points arise. These are the works necessary to deal with
damp and the ending of the AA.
The scope of works
RSA says by April 2021 Mr A had appointed a loss assessor and surveyor to act on his
behalf. And, at a site meeting attended by all parties, there was consensus among the
experts about what works were required. With only Mr A disagreeing that work should start.
It says it sent the loss assessor a detailed email covering all aspects on 28 April 2021. This
confirmed that AA would not be provided after June 2021, although in the end it continued
until 22 July 2021.
If that isnt the case and Mr As loss assessor was also in disagreement about what works
were required, I will of course consider any evidence he can provide about this.
At this stage I think RSA made reasonable attempts to settle the claim fairly and complete
repairs. It took steps to reassure Mr A that works could be started by instructing additional
experts. A drying certificate had been provided by its specialist damp contractor. I think RSA
is entitled to rely on the opinion of its experts. Had its contractors completed repairs, these
would have been guaranteed. RSA says any ongoing dampness is due to the failure to carry
out works and because the property has been left unheated and unventilated.
Mr A appears to have instructed further experts after the site meeting in April 2021. They
disagree that the property was dry and on what works were needed. Particularly in respect of
the hallway floor, recommending this should be dug out and a damp proof course (DPC) and
concrete slab laid. RSA says the liquid DPC it proposed would be appropriate, with relaying
the floor both unnecessary and betterment.
This is a relevant consideration, because as noted by RSA, Mr As policy doesnt provide for
betterment. Like most policies it indemnifies Mr A. This means it should put him back in the
position he was in before the incident claimed for happened rather than make any
improvements to the property. That said, our service expects insurers to provide a lasting
and effective repair, rather than a short-term fix.
I think some of the solutions proposed by Mr As experts would be betterment. And, it
wouldnt be reasonable for me to tell RSA to undertake such work when its experts have
recommended alternatives, that RSA would have guaranteed.
If Mr A wanted work done that RSA didnt consider necessary or which wasnt covered bythe policy, his alternative would be to take a cash settlement and either supplement it or
economise elsewhere on the works. Mr As surveyor estimated the cost of laying a concrete
slab in the hall at around £2,000, subject to asbestos tests on part of the existing flooring.
And, if Mr A wanted this improved solution, I dont think the additional cost prevented him
from starting any repairs at all. Particularly as he faced monthly rental costs of around
£1,500 once the AA stopped.
Having considered everything, I think the proposals made by RSAs experts would put Mr A
back into the situation he was in before the leak, particularly if its contractors had completed
the works. This would have provided Mr A with a guarantee and if there were further
problems, RSA would be responsible for putting them right.
Ending AA
There were many delays over some two and a half years before RSA said it couldnt
continue the AA when Mr A said he didnt want repairs to continue. I dont think RSA was
responsible for these delays and I think it was right to conclude the issue was deadlocked.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable in setting a deadline to end the AA and to settle the
claim, given its experts agreed repairs could be completed.
RSA advised Mr A he would need to arrange his own contractors if he didnt want RSA to do
the work in February 2021. It urged Mr A to decide through March and April. It advised in
March 2021 that the AA wouldnt be extended beyond May 2021, as its contractors were
ready to start. In the end it continued AA until 22 July 2021, having given Mr A around four
months notice.
With works expected to take five to six weeks I think this was reasonable notice to allow Mr
A to either make his own arrangements or to decide to proceed with RSAs contractors
instead.
I dont think RSA acted unfairly in ending the AA when it did, and I dont think it should be
responsible for Mr As subsequent rental expenses after.
The settlement
RSA says it paid what it would have cost its contractor to do the work with Mr A refusing to
allow work to start. Mr A says he wanted to use RSAs contractor and the cash settlement
paid isnt adequate to complete the works. Ive thought about whats fair here as its likely
that RSA can secure discounted rates from its contractors that most private individuals
wouldnt be able to obtain.
If RSA wasnt prepared to undertake the works then paying a discounted rate wouldnt be
fair. But RSA was prepared to carry out the works and guarantee them. So, it isnt
reasonable to ask RSA to pay more than what its own contractor would have charged it to
complete repairs, given it was Mr A didnt want the work to proceed.
Mr A had expert representation and I think RSA explained the situation to him clearly. And
RSA agreed some works which werent covered by the policy. So, I think it has acted
reasonably in respect of the settlement amount, subject to clarification of the issues
considered below.
The electrical works
The electrical wiring was stripped out and RSA says it has:confirmed to the customer we are meeting the cost of a full house re- wire.
The initial (first fix) rewiring was done by RSAs contractor. Mr A says issues with it mean he
cant find an electrician prepared to continue, preventing progress. However, Mr A has
provided a quote from an electrician to complete the installation which does say the first fix
appears to be compliant.
Mr As electrician and his surveyor say the wiring has been fixed on the walls below the
ceiling, as though the intention is for it to be concealed by coving. The surveyor says this is
irregular and it should be located in the ceiling void. It isnt clear whether the electrician
thinks this work should be redone as his quote to complete the installation doesnt appear to
reflect this. Mr A says the wiring wasnt arranged like this previously.
I asked RSA about this. It said it didnt have much information, but its contractor had carried
out the first fix, which doesnt come with any type of certification. As RSA has provided for a
full house re-wire I think it should seek clarification from its contractor why the wiring was
installed this way. If the previous wiring ran in the ceiling void, I think its reasonable that the
rewiring be arranged in the same manner. If so, I think its fair that the work be either redone
by RSAs contractor or the settlement increased accordingly.
Other complaint points
Mr A has mentioned other outstanding matters. These are: holes in paving around the house
following the rerouting of the mains water supply. Damage to items left in the kitchen.
Damage to the kitchen floor. Whether his kitchen units can be refitted and that they may
have deformed in storage.
Mr A says a display unit and fireplace surround were left in the kitchen rather than taken into
storage and have been damaged. He hasnt provided any evidence of this at this stage.
RSA says its scope of works included steam cleaning of the kitchen floor tiles and a
specialist repair to one damaged tile. It notes that prior repairs had already been made to the
floor with something like Polyfilla. It said that Mr As own contractors may have damaged
the tile, despite which it agreed to repair. So, I think this issue has been dealt with fairly.
I think its unlikely that the kitchen units will have deformed in storage. If they have Mr A
would be able to take this up with RSA. He also says it will be:
difficult to refit the old units in exactly the same position ... as the thickness of the
walls has changed.
It was Mr A rather than RSA that wanted walls plastered rather than reboarded and skimmed
as they were before the claim. So, if minor adjustments are required to refit the units as a
consequence, I dont think this is an unreasonable outcome in the circumstances.
It isnt clear whether repair of the paving was included in RSAs settlement, if it wasnt, I think
it should be to put Mr A back in the position he was in before the claim.
Putting things right
I think RSA should consider the issues relating to the rewiring and the holes in the paving if it
hasnt already done so and either arrange repairs or increase the settlement accordingly. If it
has addressed these issues or is not responsible for the wiring it should provide evidence of
this.I asked both parties to let me have any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr A said he was very disappointed by my provisional decision and provided a detailed 
response including comments from two experts acting for him. Ive summarised his main 
points and my findings on them below. 
RSA said it agreed with my provisional decision and it was happy to consider the issues 
relating to the wiring and the holes in the paving. It said it was happy to instruct a specialist 
contractor to repair the hole in the kitchen tile. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part, largely along the lines of my 
provisional decision. I know the financial consequences for Mr A are significant and that he 
will be greatly disappointed by this, but I need to act fairly to both sides. 
I still consider the main issue to be whether the next stage of repairs could commence in the 
February  April 2021 period. The ending of the AA payment and Mr As other complaints 
arise from that and on the whole, I dont think RSA has treated Mr A unfairly. But there are 
some outstanding issues that I think RSA should address, which I will outline below.   
Ive taken account of everything Mr A has said including the additional evidence hes 
provided. So, the key issue is whether work could continue. Mr A hasnt provided any 
evidence to counter the recommendations made by RSA that it could. And new evidence 
from Mr A confirms that his original expert also agreed following the site meeting in April 
2021, that RSAs proposals would rectify the remaining damp issues and that works could 
commence without delay.
Mr A retained two further experts some months later, who proposed the alternative solution 
of a new DPC and concrete floor. But neither have said the proposals from RSAs experts 
were inappropriate. The policy requires that Mr A be put back in the position he was in 
before the claim and provide a lasting and effective repair. Theres no evidence that this 
wouldnt have been achieved had RSAs contractor undertaken the work it was ready to start. 
As Mr A refused to allow work to commence, I think RSA took the fair and logical step of 
cash settling this long running claim instead. It gave advance notice of this and time for Mr A 
to change his mind and Im mindful that Mr A did have his own expert representation during 
this period. I think what has happened subsequently is a consequence of Mr As decision not 
to undertake repairs. So, I dont think RSA can be fairly held responsible for any ongoing 
deterioration of the property or increased labour and material costs since then. 
I think having advised it would cash settle the claim, RSA continued to pay for AA for a 
reasonable period to allow Mr A to complete the works to make his home habitable. 
However, I think Mr As surveyor has made a relevant point about the loss of a Minton tiled 
floor in the hall and RSA should consider this as part of the claim. Ill expand on this below.
Mr As response pointsMr A reiterated many of the points he had already made. Ive considered everything hes 
said and summarised what I consider to be the main points below with my comments 
following in italics:
He disputed that he had caused delays in arranging AA or completing works, except 
that he didnt want repairs to start until his home was suitably dry. To a large extent 
the undoubted delays before February 2021 when RSA advised final works could 
start are now academic. Mr A was in AA for much of that period, works were 
undertaken that RSA didnt consider necessary or that werent covered by the policy. 
But after the February- April 2021 period all experts then involved, including Mr As, 
agreed that works could commence. Mr A didnt agree and wouldnt allow work to 
start. Hed already complained to RSA about its decision but doesnt appear to have 
appointed other experts to offer alternative advice until around four months after the 
April 2021 site meeting. 
 
He said he hadnt been able to arrange works whilst RSA was considering his 
complaint, made on 5 March 2021, to which it didnt provide a final response until 26 
May 2021, with the payments for AA ending on 22 July 2021. But during this period 
RSA did engage, I think constructively, about his claim. A site meeting was held with 
his own expert where RSA proposed solutions to the damp issue as detailed below. 
All the experts agreed work could commence, with these expected to take 5-6 weeks. 
And AA wasnt ended until over twelve weeks after this meeting and around eight 
weeks after RSAs final response to his complaint. I think Mr A was given a 
reasonable period to complete works to make his home habitable before RSA 
stopped payment of the AA. 
He provided photographs of a sideboard and fireplace surround which had been left 
in the house rather than stored. These do appear to be damaged. I asked RSA about 
this and it said the items should have been taken into storage along with some light 
fittings which had been broken. It said it was happy to consider the replacement cost 
of these items and that it had advised Mr A this was the case previously. It isnt clear 
why it hasnt, but to progress this, Mr A should obtain estimates for the replacement 
of these items and forward them to RSA.
He said RSA had never provided him with a drying certificate. I asked RSA about this 
and it provided a copy of the drying certificate which has been forwarded to Mr A. 
RSA said this had originally been provided to its contractor who was ready to start 
the work as it would require a sight of it. It said as Mr A had never provided it with an 
estimate from his own contractor it hadnt sent it to him.
He asked for copies of RSAs expert reports and comments. These have been 
provided to him. 
Mr A confirmed that he had used an expert to act for him before RSA cash settled his 
claim. Initially it said the property was too damp for repairs to commence in 
February/March 2021. Mr A later shared its report about this with his other experts 
and our service. But, Mr As expert changed its opinion at the site meeting in April 
2021. Mr A says it was clear his expert and RSAs claims handler knew each other, 
and that RSA had unfairly influenced his expert to change its opinion. 
The expert advised by email on 26 April 2021 that the remedial works proposed by 
RSA including the laying of a liquid DPC would rectify the issues and that:I believe the works that  have recommended will put the property back to a 
pre-loss condition and that the rectification works can commence without 
delay.
I think its unlikely that a qualified professional would change its opinion without it 
being appropriate to do so. And, I think this is strong evidence that RSAs proposals 
were fair and reasonable. 
Mr A questioned why the opinions of experts appointed by him were being dismissed 
but RSAs experts were being accepted. Ive considered the input of all the experts 
carefully and impartially, including the new information from Mr As original expert. 
After Mr A appointed further experts there was a difference of opinion about how 
repairs could be undertaken. But I havent seen any evidence that says the further 
proposals made by RSA (in respect of the liquid DPC) would not be effective. Or 
wouldnt achieve a lasting and effective repair of the type our service expects an 
insurer to provide under this type of policy. And thats a key consideration here.
RSA needs to act reasonably, and I think it has done so by appointing specialist 
experts to advise on appropriate repairs. Repairs it would have guaranteed had its 
contractors completed them. 
He asked that I appoint a totally independent expert to assess the damp floor. I dont 
think further expert reports are necessary given the further comments from Mr As 
experts considered below. And the majority of the experts involved have already 
concluded that work could commence in April 2021.
Mr A provided further comments from two experts who Ill refer to as B and R. R 
attempted to reopen the claim with RSA in August 2021, but I dont think its further 
comments add anything new. B is a surveyor whod questioned the original approach 
to repairs. B had said removing the floor at outset to repair the leaking pipe would 
also have expediated drying, providing a quicker and more cost-effective solution 
overall. B acknowledged it was not fully conversant with the history of the claim but 
said removal of the floor in the hallway and replacement with a new concrete floor 
was a pragmatic solution to the damp. 
But B hasnt said that RSAs proposal in respect of the liquid DPC were inadequate 
or that repairs couldnt have been undertaken if this had been applied. B also accepts 
that a new concrete floor and DPC would be betterment, which the policy doesnt 
provide for.
However, B noted that a period Minton tiled floor in the hallway would be covered by 
the liquid DPC (it would also be lost if replaced by concrete). And the cost of 
replacing these tiles - to put Mr A back in the position he was in before the claim - 
would probably be higher than the installation of the new concrete floor B had 
suggested and which Mr A was happy to accept as an alternative. 
I asked RSA about this. It agreed the Minton tiles would be covered by the liquid 
DPC. It said at the time of the incident these tiles had been covered by laminate 
flooring. The replacement of which was included in the settlement, as it said Mr A 
hadnt previously expressed concern about the tiles. I note Mr A agreed to the tiles 
being drilled to check the moisture levels beneath, suggesting he wasnt overly 
concerned about them at that time. RSA said if Mr A wanted to claim for the uplifting 
and replacement of the tiles and provided an acceptable estimate it would be happy 
to settle this on receipt of an invoice for supply and fitting.I thought about whats a fair approach here. The Minton tiles were covered at the 
time of the water leak, but not permanently as the laminate could have been easily 
removed at any time. And in the opinion of RSA the tiles act as a DPC that required 
augmentation by a liquid DPC that would effectively permanently cover them to 
enable the repairs to be completed. So, I think its fair that their loss be reflected in 
the claim. As RSA decided to cash settle the claim, I think its reasonable that it also 
pays the estimated cost of replacement with comparable quality tiles including 
standard installation.
This means RSA wont be responsible for any additional ground works which might 
be betterment beneath the tiles, but that Mr A is put back in the position he was in 
before the leak. If RSA has included the cost of replacement laminate flooring in the 
settlement already paid, I think its fair that it offsets this against the cost of the 
replacement tiles.  
Mr A had expressed concerns about the adequacy of the RSAs proposals rather 
than the loss of the Minton tiles. So, I dont think this prevented any works being 
undertaken. Including the replacement cost in the settlement fairly resolves the issue 
as whatever solution was undertaken to augment the DPC, so repairs could continue, 
appears to sacrifice the existing tiles. 
Mr A said because of the issues with the wiring and the damp floor his home wasnt 
habitable and that the AA should have been continued until it was, as provided for by 
his policy. The experts considered the liquid DPC and some other minor remedial 
works to the new plastering would enable repairs to be started and completed within 
five to six weeks. And, had the Minton floor tiles been lifted and replaced as RSA has 
now confirmed it is happy to consider, I dont think works would have taken much 
longer to complete. 
AA was continued for around twelve weeks after Mr As expert agreed repairs could 
commence. I think this gave adequate time for any arising issues or snagging on the 
first fix electrics to be rectified. 
RSA will consider the wiring, and this should include any remedial works to walls and 
ceilings necessary. I wouldnt normally expect this type of rewiring work to be so 
disruptive that AA would be required even if completed after the other works. I 
certainly dont think it is fair and reasonable that RSA should be required to pay AA 
from July 2021 to date because of issues with the wiring which Mr As own electrician 
described as compliant. 
Putting things right
RSA has agreed to consider the wiring, the holes in the paving, the replacement cost of the 
items not taken into storage and to send a specialist to repair the hole in the kitchen floor tile. 
I think these actions fairly resolve these issues. 
I think its fair that RSA covers the cost of the uplift and replacement of the Minton floor tiles 
including standard installation and Mr A should obtain two estimates for this and provide 
these to RSA for it to settle this aspect.
But I dont think any of these issues have prevented Mr A from undertaking any work at all 
on the property. There is no evidence that RSAs proposals regarding the liquid DPC were 
inadequate and wouldnt have achieved a lasting and effective repair. And, subject to the loss of the Minton floor tiles being fairly reflected in the settlement I think the works would 
have put Mr A back in the position he was in before the leak. 
I dont think RSA has treated Mr A unfairly or unreasonably in concluding that the claim was 
deadlocked and deciding to cash settle it. I think it continued funding AA for a sufficiently 
long period for him to have been able to complete repairs to make his home habitable before 
AA ended. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited.
I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Arrange for its contractor to inspect and complete remedial works to the first fix wiring 
to reflect the previous installation and make good plasterwork and decor as 
necessary.
Arrange for the specialist repair to the damaged kitchen floor tile.
Settle Mr As estimates for the replacement of the damaged items not taken into 
storage.
Settle Mr As estimate for the uplift and replacement of the Minton floors tiles with 
tiles of equivalent quality. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman