DRN-4009564
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Portafina Investment Management Limited 
(Portafina) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
Portafina processed the transfer of Mr Ds DB scheme benefits to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) on an insistent client basis. Mr D says Portafina should have clearly 
recommended that he didnt transfer instead of providing him with insistent client 
documentation. Mr D says hes suffered a loss because of Portafinas actions.
What happened
Mr D approached Portafina in early 2019 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I 
understand this was following an advertisement that he saw. 
In March 2019 Portafina completed a telephone fact-find to gather information about Mr Ds 
circumstances and objectives. This showed that:
He was 55 years old, widowed and had a non-dependent child. 
He was a self-employed taxi driver.
He was living in rented accommodation.
Had had one unsecured loan but no other assets or liabilities.
He had a deferred DB scheme pension that had a transfer value of £86,538. And at age 60 
he would receive benefits of an income of £4,333 and a tax-free lump sum of £12,937. Or a 
reduced income of £3,479 and a tax-free lump sum of £23,192. 
Portafina also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it said was 
moderately adventurous. 
On 20 March 2019 Portafina sent Mr D a letter saying that it recommended he didnt transfer 
his DB pension scheme benefits because the growth rate required to match his guaranteed 
benefits was high and because hed be giving up valuable guaranteed benefits, which were 
his main retirement provision. But Portafina said it could still help Mr D if he wanted to go 
ahead and it asked him to complete and return the enclosed insistent client form.
On 26 March 2019 Mr D returned the insistent client form. Where asked, Mr D indicated on 
the form that he acknowledged his new pension was unlikely to achieve the required growth 
rate and that he was giving up guaranteed benefits. 
I understand that after it received the insistent client form Portafina spoke with Mr D to 
ensure that he understood what he had signed. 
On 3 April 2019 Portafina sent Mr D a suitability report setting out its advice. The report 
outlined Mr Ds objectives at the time, which it said were: 
I would like to make my daughter happy, and let her live her life. I also have some work to 
be done at home and fund a couple of holidays in the future.
You have stated that you will need £21,634 to achieve this. Specifically:
Help with your daughters wedding (£9,000)
Make home improvements (£8,000)
Go on holiday (£4,634)
The report then set out Portafinas recommendation. It said that it had already 
recommended that Mr D shouldnt transfer out of his DB pension scheme because of the 
benefits he would be giving up  but it said that Mr D had decided to disregard the advice 
and that it would be treating him as an insistent client. It went on to propose that Mr D 
transfer his DB scheme to an arrangement that would enable him to meet his objective of 
releasing tax-free cash.
The report also set out the details of Mr Ds existing DB pension scheme, which included the 
transfer value and the amount of pension Mr D could expect from his scheme at age 60. It 
also said the critical yield required to match Mr Ds existing scheme benefits was 21.2% or 
put another way hed need an extra £120,810 or so on top of the transfer value to achieve a 
comparable level of income from an insurer.
Mr D signed the relevant application forms and the transfer went ahead. In June 2019 Mr D 
received his tax-free cash payment and the remaining funds were invested in a portfolio 
which Portafina said matched Mr Ds attitude to risk.
Mr D complained in 2021 to Portafina about the suitability of the transfer advice because the 
transfer came from a low-risk DB scheme and he shouldnt have been advised to transfer it 
away, given his lower attitude to risk. 
Portafina didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said in its final response letter in June 2021 that it 
had provided suitable advice and had acted in Mr Ds best interests. It said that it had 
recommended that Mr D shouldnt transfer the benefits from his DB scheme because of the 
guaranteed benefits it provided. It said Mr D confirmed he wished to disregard the advice by 
returning the insistent client forms. It carried out the transfer and in doing so complied with 
the necessary regulatory rules and guidance  but it was ultimately Mr Ds decision to go 
ahead having been fully informed of the consequences.
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Portafina compensate Mr D. In summary he said that Portafina hadnt 
acted fairly towards Mr D and they didnt think he was a true insistent client. They said 
Portafina shouldnt have told Mr D how to disregard its advice at the same time as giving its 
advice. And they said Portafina only provided Mr D with its detailed suitability report and the 
reasons why he shouldnt transfer out of his DB pension scheme after hed signed the 
insistent client form, so they didnt think he was in a fully informed position. Overall, they 
didnt think Mr D wouldve gone ahead and transferred had things happened as they should 
have.
Portafina disagreed. In summary it said:
It advised against the transfer and clearly explained this to Mr D including the 
benefits he would be giving up.
It checked Mr Ds understanding of the insistent client process before proceeding.
Mr D wrote in his own words why he wanted to proceed with the transfer in 
accordance with regulatory guidance.It believes the evidence suggests Mr D wouldve transferred his DB pension benefits 
with or without Portafinas involvement because of the language he used throughout 
the process and his strong objective to release monies early.
Portafina gave no advice to Mr D to transfer his DB scheme but it did advise on the 
destination of the funds. It could have said this in clearer terms. 
Mr D was not obliged to sign the insistent client paperwork  the telephone and 
correspondence led business model allows clients to digest information without the 
pressure of a face-to-face meeting.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portafina's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Portafina 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ds best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
A key aspect in this case is Portafinas categorisation of Mr D as an insistent client - this is 
a client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended and 
wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.Since 2018, COBS 9.5A includes additional guidance on insistent clients. It sets out three 
key steps for advisers to take.
1) Where a firm proceeds to execute a transaction for an insistent client which is not in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by the firm, the firm should 
communicate to the insistent client, in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, 
and having regard to the information needs of the insistent client so that the client is 
able to understand, the information set out in (2).
2) The information which the firm should communicate to the insistent client is:
a) that the firm has not recommended the transaction and that it will not be in 
accordance with the firms personal recommendation;
b) the reasons why the transaction will not be in accordance with the firms 
personal recommendation;
c) the risks of the transaction proposed by the insistent client; and
d) the reasons why the firm did not recommend that transaction to the client.
Acknowledgement from the insistent client - COBS 9.5A.4
(1) The firm should obtain from the insistent client an acknowledgement that:
(i) the transaction is not in accordance with the firms personal recommendation; and
(ii) the transaction is being carried out at the request of the client.
(2) Where possible, the acknowledgment should be in the clients own words.
Mr D says that he thought the advice wasnt right for him, particulary the high charges. And 
had he not been provided with insistent client paperwork and been clearly recommended to 
transfer his DB pension scheme benefits, he would have stayed in the scheme. 
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, I think there were weaknesses 
and failings in Portafinas advice process, which meant it didnt act in Mr Ds best interests. 
And I think Mr D likely understood or believed overall that Portafina was recommending he 
should go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because on 26 March 2019 following the telephone discussion Portafina had with 
Mr D about his pension options, it sent him a letter with a brief overview of its advice. It 
recommended he should not transfer away from his DB scheme to access a tax-free cash 
lump sum. This was because the growth rate required to match Mr Ds guaranteed benefits 
from his DB scheme was too high; he shouldnt give up the DB schemes guaranteed 
benefits; because his income needs in retirement wouldnt be met and he could suffer as a 
result and because his DB scheme represented his main retirement provision. 
 
In this situation Id expect to see a signficant emphasis on the reasons why the transfer 
was not in Mr Ds best interests and how his needs could be met by not transferring. But 
the information in this letter was in my view limited and generic. While Portafina later sent a 
more detailed suitability report at this stage Mr D had little information to go on, and almost 
nothing that related to his personal circumstances, to decide if being an insistent client was 
truly in his best interests.
Yet immediately underneath the brief summary of why Portafina recommended Mr D 
should not transfer away from his DB scheme, it said that he could go about doing it 
regardless, under the heading What happens if you still want to go ahead? by effecting 
his right to transfer on an insistent client basis. And while it said this would be against Portafinas advice, it enclosed the necessary forms Mr D needed to complete and return to 
pursue this option. I think that by introducing the concept of an insistent client at this stage, 
Portafinas process here was geared towards facilitating the transfer.
I think if Portafina firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mr 
Ds best interests, not only would it have given more detail upfront and placed greater 
emphasis on the reasons why the transfer wasnt in Mr Ds best interests, it also wouldnt 
have told him at the same time as delivering its recommendation - albeit a brief one - how 
he could put it aside and bypass it. I think the wording and the emphasis placed on how Mr 
D could ignore Portafinas recommendation was unfair to him and wasnt in his best 
interests.
I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interest to go against Portafinas recommendation  yet 
Portafina made it very easy for him to do so. I also think, given the context and the 
emphasis placed on this, that Mr D could reasonably have interpreted this overall that 
Portafina was recommending he go ahead and transfer.
And nothing Ive seen suggests Mr D was knowledgeable or had prior experience of 
financial matters. Im mindful too that Portafina categorised Mr Ds attitude to risk as 
moderately adventurous. But he seems to have no other investments, or experience of 
investments. I dont think he was particulary knowledgeable about financial matters, and a 
DB transfer is a complex transaction with far reaching consequences. All of these things I 
think shouldve put Portafina on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters 
through the insistent client route.
I can see that Mr Ds insistent client forms included a section where he put in his own 
words why he wanted to access his pension fund early. And while this was something the 
FCA guidance pointed to as being good practice, I dont think Mr Ds response adequately 
demonstrates that he knew and understood the risks involved and the recommendation 
being made. I say this not only because the majority of the form was pre-completed and Mr 
D simply had to tick a box to say that he understood, but crucially as I indicated earlier on, 
he hadnt yet received Portafinas full suitability report and had time to digest it before 
deciding to go ahead anyway. So Im not persuaded Mr D was able to make an informed 
choice here. 
It was only after receiving Mr Ds confirmation that he wanted to proceed with the transfer 
that Portafina sent him its full suitability report. And while this repeated the 
recommendation not to transfer out of the DB scheme, this was immediately undermined 
because it was followed by a positive recommendation, advising Mr D to transfer his 
benefits to release the tax-free cash. And this was all set out under a heading titled Our 
recommendation. 
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Portafina needed to give Mr D 
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged, that is the transfer and the 
choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mr D advice to transfer, and only 
considered the suitability of the proposed solution in the full suitability report after securing 
Mr Ds confirmation to proceed on an insistent client basis. Portafina was clearly giving 
advice on the whole transfer rather than just the investment link, even if it says its advice 
was not to transfer. 
So, by recommending that Mr D transfer his benefits to a particular scheme, not only did 
this completely undermine the recommendation not to transfer, I think Portafina has 
effectively recommended that he transfer out of his DB scheme. If Portafina didnt think that 
transferring out of the DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Mr Ds best 
interests, it needed to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable for him - it couldnt separate out the elements. For this reason, I think on receipt 
of the full suitability report Mr D more likely than not believed Portafina was recommending 
he transfer out of the DB scheme, and it was reasonable for him to do so.
Mr Ds overarching objective was recorded as wanting to fund his daughters wedding, 
making some home improvements and going on holiday. But these objectives dont seem 
well defined and confict with his personal situation and some of what is recorded on the fact 
find. 
The fact find documents that Mr D did want to the cash free lump sum. He said this was 
very important to him and that he would take a risk to achieve these aims. But he was also 
living in rented accomodation and so his scope for changing his house would be limited. For 
example, its not clear how or why he would replace a kitchen himself in council owned 
accomodation. 
And and one of the objectives on the suitability letter was a holiday. But on the fact find this 
was described as having a couple of lads holidays in the future. Mr D did have suprlus 
income of around £700 a month so Im not sure why he couldnt have used this to fund his 
holidays. I dont think this was a real financial objective for Mr D at all. And it shouldnt have 
formed part of the discussions around his pension planning. 
Lastly, I understand that Mr D had borrowed from a family member and he did use the tax 
free cash to partly repay this. His situation seems more complex than Portafina recorded. In 
any event Portafina gave advice on a different basis and its this that Im considering
But overall I think these factors bring into doubt that Mr Ds insistence to access his pension 
was for set or firm objectives as Portafina says was the case. None of the reasons Mr D 
gave suggest he had a critical or an immediate pressing need to access a lump sum for. 
And he did have a reasonable disposble income and so there was scope for other means to 
meet his capital requirements. 
Its also striking that the advice paperwork documents that Mr D had a need for a lump sum 
that precisely matched that of the maximum amount of tax-free cash he could take. If Mr D 
did want to improve his accomodation and go on a modest holidy, I think its likely here 
these reasons only came about after he was told the amount he could access tax-free from 
his existing pension. I think he was likely attracted by the sum of money on offer. Withouth 
reailsing the affect this may have on his future income. 
But either way, and on the basis that Mr D didnt have any other means at his disposal such 
as savings, it seems to me that Mr Ds objectives could have been addressed by more 
conventional needs and with a clearer focus on the actual lump sum he really needed. I 
dont think it was necessary for Mr D to gain access to his guaranteed DB scheme pension 
monies early to achieve his objectives. And I think in acting in Mr Ds best interests, 
Portafina shouldve made this clearer to Mr D. 
I think the rules and guidance that in were in place at the time were clear that Portafina 
had to act with due care and skill and in Mr Ds best interests. And by not seeking to 
properly address and consider Mr Ds true objectives, Im not persuaded this was acting in 
his best interests.
Ultimately I dont think Mr D was able to make an informed choice here  it seems to me 
that he most likely went ahead with the transfer as he believed it seemed like a good idea 
because of the amount of money available and because this was a straightforward way to 
meet his wants. And because importantly, I also think Portafina ultimately gave Mr D a
positive recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme, which in the circumstances I think wouldve given him the impression that Portafina agreed with his approach.
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me 
to conclude the process Portafina followed meant that Mr D can truly be regarded as an 
insistent client - I think Portafina made it altogether too easy to agree that he was an 
insistent client. Portafinas overall communication with Mr D wasnt clear. It didnt act in 
Mr Ds best interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill.
I now need to consider if things had happened as they should have and had 
Portafina followed the insistent client process correctly, whether Mr D wouldve still 
gone ahead.
Having done so, if Portafina had acted in Mr Ds best interests, providing a 
recommendation on the suitability of the whole of the transaction envisaged at the outset, 
and addressing Mr Ds true objective at the time, including making it clear that he should 
look at other methods of funding these, I dont think he wouldve insisted on going ahead 
with the DB pension transfer. As Ive outlined above, I dont consider Mr D was an 
experienced investor such that he possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or had the 
confidence to go against the advice he was given.
So if things had happened as they should have, taking everything into account, Im not 
persuaded Mr D would have insisted on going ahead with the transfer of his DB pension 
scheme and would most likely have followed the advice to only transfer his existing 
personal pension.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D.A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portafina must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date Portafina receives 
notification of his/her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portafina to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portafina to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portafina Investment 
Management Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portafina Investment Management Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portafina 
Investment Management Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portafina Investment Management Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portafina Investment 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman