DRN-3955716
The complaint
Mrs E, through her representative, complains that Progressive Money Limited (PML) lent to 
her irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information provided to us by PML here are the two loans approved for Mrs E.
Loan Approved Amount in total 
including interest 
and feesCapital sum Term in 
monthsMonthly 
repayment
1 31 October 2015 £26,199.40 £13,000 60 £436.66
2 3 March 2017 £29,153.40 £15,000 60 £485.89
Loan 1 was paid off by loan 2. The settlement figure was £11,728.57.
Mrs E informed PML she had lost her job in July 2019 but she was able to settle Loan 2 on 
6 August 2019. 
The details surrounding the application process were given in the final response letter (FRL) 
Mrs E received after shed complained to PML in February 2022. It was dated 14 March 
2022 and gave reasons why it considered it had carried out proportionate checks and so it 
did not consider it had to put things right for Mrs E. 
After the complaint had been referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service, PML objected to 
loan 1 being within our jurisdiction but a colleague ombudsman has written a decision to say 
that we can look at both loans. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that the loans ought not to have 
been approved. He considered that for loan 1 the money left over for Mrs E each month was 
too low a sum and that two of the accounts Mrs E had said she was going to use the money 
from PML to clear those debts had remained open. And he said that because when Mrs E 
returned to PML for a further loan our adjudicator could see that those two accounts were 
still open. And our adjudicator thought that the combined regular consumer credit 
repayments, including the monthly repayments for the new loans, represented a significant 
proportion of her income on both occasions. So, he upheld the complaint.
PML did not respond and Mrs Es representative asked for an update on the case in 
December 2022 and will have received notification that the complaint was being passed to 
an ombudsman. But nothing has been said in reply.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether PML completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs E 
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mrs E wouldve been able to do so? If I determine that PML did not act fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mrs E and that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to 
consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required PML to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mrs Es ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so PML had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs E. In 
practice this meant that PML had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Mrs E undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for PML to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs E. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon 
several factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, 
a proportionate check could look different for different applications. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Es complaint. Im planning to uphold the complaint.
Loan 1 involved a long recorded call between PMLs underwriter and Mrs E. Ive listened to it 
and all details were covered. Mrs E was content to take the loan on the terms offered. 
During that call, the credit file the PML representative obtained was focussed on and a copy 
has been provided to us together with the income and expenditure form it carried out plus 
some copy bank statements PML asked for. The credit file alone was detailed enough to show that Mrs M had a joint mortgage which 
was costing her and her husband quite a lot each month. The credit file said around £955 a 
month and  Mrs E had said it was due to come down to £760 a month. And PML split that 
cost in half as it (plus the council tax and some bills) came out of a joint account with Mrs Es 
husband. The bank statements which were as recent as 1 October 2015 onwards showed 
that the mortgage paid on 1 October 2015 was £955 and Ive seen nothing to verify that the 
mortgage had reduced to a £760. So, I think that PML were wrong not to do that.
Mrs E had a lot of outstanding debt on top of the mortgage - £36,677 on loans and 
instalment credit and £8,222 on revolving credit accounts. She had 11 active accounts, had 
opened six in the previous six months and there had been 29 credit searches in the previous 
three months. 
She was asked if shed tried her bank to obtain credit. Mrs Es answer was that she had and 
had not obtained credit. Mrs E worked for a bank and had done so for 13 years. So, 
I consider that there were enough pieces of information in those credit search summaries 
and the answers to her initial questions to have alerted PML to there being a reason she was 
wanting a further £13,000 credit so soon after taking six others credit accounts in recent 
months. 
In PMLs FRL it accepts that the disposable income after it had calculated all had been paid 
off left Mrs E with £123 per month. Even on its own figures I consider that too low and gave 
Mrs E too narrow a margin for eventualities especially where the loan term was five years.
For loan 2, my view is much the same. 
I listened to all the three calls I have been sent which were in 2017 and the first one was 
2 March 2017. 
Mrs E was offered a settlement figure for loan 1 of £11,728.57. 
And she was offered fresh credit of £15,000 pretty much immediately. At first £3,271.43 was 
due to be left over for her own use. Then as the call progressed two further accounts were to 
be cleared and would have left Mrs E with around £315 to be paid into her bank account. 
She had informed PML that she had just returned to work after maternity leave - back in 
January 2017. 
PML carried out a new credit search and Mrs Es headline figures had changed  the  
loans/instalment loan figure had increased to £47,166 and she had £7,785 on revolving 
credit.
But one of her credit cards was still at around £6,590 and it was that card which was one of 
the accounts the first PML loan was meant to consolidate  around £6,900 in 2015  but the 
credit file records from March 2017 show that Mrs E never paid it off. 
The income and expenditure document I have seen for loan 2 indicates that her income was 
£2,575 per month. But her bank statements reviewed by PML had a note next to her salary 
for 17 February 2017 at £2,332 and marked normal. 
And her payslip for 16 January 2017 was £426.77, and for 31 January 2017 was a net pay of 
£1,804. And the payslip for 28 February 2017 was £2,332. 
PML only obtained 30 days of the joint bank account statements whereas for loan 1 it had 
looked at both the joint and the sole account she had. So, I do not consider it had the full picture to know why it was that Mrs E needed the additional credit and to refinance the first 
loan especially after shed received a £1,691 bonus on 31 January 2017. 
During this call in March 2017 the PML representative had calculated Mrs E had £149.05 
disposable income after all outgoings and commitments had been paid. And he explained he 
had halved quite a lot of those too. I understand from listening to the call that the reason for 
that was because Mrs E had told the PML representative that some bills were shared with 
her husband. But PML failed to obtain much information about her husbands income or 
outgoings and so I do not consider that to have been the right approach. 
Still the PML representative had said to Mrs E that the disposable income on the new loan 
was quite tight and so he was concerned that there was nothing that had been missed. A 
further £60 of expenses on top of what had been discussed was going to mean that PML 
would want to extend the loan. Which I assume meant stretching it over a longer term. Even 
if I am wrong on that I think that PML knew it was all too tight. 
I agree with the adjudicator that Mrs E was too heavily indebted to be taking a further loan 
with PML over a further term of 60 months. It was due to cost her £485.89 a month for this 
loan and still she had other debt too. 
I do not think that PML utilised the information it had about Mrs E fully enough to get to the 
bottom of why it was Mrs E was needing so much credit and regularly. 
The PML loan representative said more than once during the call that he was not feeling at 
all well and his throat was on fire. Added to which the call was at 7:20 in the evening and 
Mrs E had a baby with her while she was trying to make these decisions and the telephone 
line was poor. And so, the overall background situation was not a good one. 
These I consider to have been additional and smaller factors but the overall situation was 
inappropriate for such a large loan and heavy commitment. And I noticed that the call just 
ended without any explanation. The next morning Mrs E called PML and explained it had cut 
off mid-call with no explanation. She was told that the man she had been speaking to was off 
that day. 
I uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Putting things right
PML ought not to have approved either of the loans for Mrs E. I understand they have been 
repaid. 
refund all interest and charges Mrs E paid on both loans
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about both from Mrs Es credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires PML to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs E 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Es complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman