DRN-4237358
The complaint
Mr C complains that St Jamess Place Wealth Management (SJP), his financial adviser and 
pension provider, has misled him since 2017 about the transfer of his defined benefit (DB) 
pension to a personal pension. He said that SJP told him to wait to transfer as the amount 
would go up. And that the misinformation had stopped him from taking his DB pension for 
several years. 
Mr C also said that SJP told him the transfer could be added to his existing pension with it. 
But that it then retracted its offer and said it wouldn't advise him to transfer his DB pension to 
a personal pension. 
SJP has offered Mr C £650 compensation and agreed to compare the Cash Equivalent 
Transfer Value (CETV) of April 2021 to the value when Mr C does transfer. But Mr C doesnt 
consider this is a satisfactory resolution to his complaint. 
What happened
Mr C medically retired from work in 2014. He said his employer gave him a lump sum which 
he placed into a drawdown account with SJP. 
SJP said that it had included the value of Mr Cs forecast DB pension in cashflows for him as 
part of his total income since 2014. It said that Mr C had a chronic medical condition which 
had enabled it to get him an enhanced pension offer with one of his previous employers 
pension schemes in 2014. And that it had worked with Mr Cs medical consultant to 
approach the trustees of Mr Cs remaining DB scheme to see if they were prepared to offer 
any enhanced terms on the grounds of his health. It said that Mr C didnt qualify for an 
enhancement to his remaining DB pension at that time. 
SJP also said that it had looked into enhanced annuities for Mr C in 2014 when it had 
assisted him with his other pension. But that his condition hadnt led to any enhancement, as 
he was expected to have a normal lifespan. 
Mr C had a retirement planning discussion with SJP on 7 December 2018. His immediate 
objectives were recorded as wanting to raise capital from his pension funds. SJP produced a 
report dated 24 December 2018 which confirmed it had made recommendations to Mr C 
which hed agreed with, although hed rejected its initial recommendation to release capital 
from his premium bonds. Instead, he would crystallise pension funds currently held with SJP 
so he could access the TFC he wanted. 
The 2018 report stated that Mr C had a DB pension that was estimated to pay him an annual 
pension of £1,873 from age 65. The report also stated: You pointed out that you have a final 
salary pension and your state pension which you will be able to draw on in the future. The 
DB pension was considered as a source for capital but it was noted that drawdown wasnt 
available.
SJP held an internal discussion between February 2020 and April 2020 to see if it was 
possible to transfer Mr Cs DB scheme to SJP, despite it not meeting its usual minimum 
threshold. Mr Cs adviser said that hed previously advised Mr C to leave his DB pension 
untouched. He also said that hed told Mr C that there would be a charge for the assessment 
of a potential transfer and that the assessment would likely show that the transfer wasnt in 
his interests. But that Mr C had said that because of his illness and the fact that he wasnt 
married to his partner, he preferred his pension assets to be under his direct control.
SJP agreed to allow the transfer to be considered, given Mr Cs existing relationship with it. 
And because he wasnt dependant on the funds in retirement, although he still needed to 
access them. But it said that its concession didnt guarantee the suitability of the transfer, 
which would need to be appropriately assessed. 
SJP said that it received detailed DB pension information on 18 May 2020 which suggested 
that a cash commutation of around £42K was available. But that this was later confirmed to 
be an error by the pension provider as the maximum commutation amount was £30K.
Mr C said that on 8 December 2020, he was told that the CETV for this pension was £49K. 
Mr C said that SJP advised him to wait before taking it as it might increase in value. And that 
once he took it, it should be added to his current drawdown pension, after hed taken 25% 
tax-free cash. 
The trustees of Mr Cs remaining DB pension scheme provided a quotation on 8 December 
2020 which approved the request for his benefits to be paid with effect from 1 December 
2020, unreduced for early retirement, on the ground of ill health. The pack included the 
forms Mr C needed in order to take the early retirement pension. 
Mr C had a retirement planning session with SJP on 12 February 2021. A report was 
produced on 24 February 2021. The report said that Mr Cs objectives were to raise capital 
from his pension funds. And then to draw income from his pension. It noted that he had a DB 
pension that was estimated to pay him an annual pension of £1,873 from age 65.
The report recommended that Mr C met his objectives by crystallising funds already held 
with it. The DB pension was considered but it was noted that drawdown wasnt available. 
The report stated that Mr C had agreed with this recommendation. 
Mr C said he got an updated CETV in March 2021 of £50,859.74. He said that SJP again 
told him to wait as it felt the value would increase further. He said he got a further CETV on 9 
April 2021 of £51.893.39 but said that SJP still told him to wait. 
Mr C said he asked SJP for an update in November 2021. He said he was told he had a 
different adviser at this point. And said he tried to explain to his new adviser how hed asked 
for the value of his DB pension to be released on previous occasions. 
Mr Cs new adviser wrote to him on 3 May 2022. He said that although there was usually an 
allowance to commute a DB pension under £30,000 or under ill health, the previous SJP 
adviser had been trying to arrange for commutation under ill health, but hadnt been able to 
get the pension provider to agree. So he outlined the two options he felt Mr C had for the DB 
pension. These were: 
1. To continue to try to get the pension provider to commute the pension and get the 
lump sum to Mr C, or
2. For Mr C to start his DB pension now. 
The adviser explained what Mr C would have to do to follow either of the options. And 
outlined the various options available if he decided to take the pension.Mr C replied to say that the first SJP adviser had told him that he was waiting for the final 
value from his DB pension provider after Mr C had said he wanted a lump sum. He said hed 
completed a retirement pack which showed an amount of around £56K. Mr C said he 
needed the money as soon as possible.
Mr Cs new adviser wrote to him on 5 May 2022. He said that SJP didnt normally allow 
pensions worth less than £300,000 to be transferred in. And that because of that, the first 
adviser had been trying to get the pension provider to commute the DB pension so that Mr C 
could access the money. But that because the transfer was larger than the schemes 
commutation limit, the first adviser had been trying to get the pension provider to make an 
exception. He said this was all taking time. And to stop this from going on indefinitely, he 
suggested that Mr C completed his pension providers forms to access his tax-free cash and 
the regular pension payments. 
Mr C said that his first SJP adviser hadnt told him that SJP wouldnt allow him to transfer his 
DB pension into his drawdown pension unless the value was greater that £300K. He felt that 
his new adviser was going to ask his pension provider for an updated transfer value. Mr C 
said this had been going on for more than three years. 
Mr Cs new adviser told him that he understood that Mr C was going to send the discharge 
paperwork to the DB pension provider to start the regular income payments. He asked Mr C 
to let him know if he wanted to take a different course of action.
Mr C raised a complaint with SJP in June 2022. He felt the transfer hadnt progressed since 
2020. In the complaint form Mr C sent to SJP, he said he shouldve just taken the CETV 
offered in April 2021.
SJP issued its final response to the complaint on 26 October 2022. 
SJP said that it couldnt say for certain what was said during the meetings between Mr C and 
his first SJP financial adviser. But said that Mr Cs DB pension provider had confirmed in its 
8 December 2020 letter that Mr Cs application for payment of an early retirement pension 
on the grounds of ill health, not being subject to the normal reduction for early payment, had 
been approved. It said that this was a notable increase from the schemes normal retirement 
date in 2027. And that the first adviser considered that no further action was required as he 
felt that Mr C didnt intend to take income from the DB pension at that time as he didnt want 
to incur unnecessary income tax deductions. 
SJP said that the first adviser had requested a further claim pack from the DB pension 
provider in March 2021, at Mr Cs request. And that this was received in April 2021. It said 
the first adviser had said his advice to Mr C was not to transfer the scheme to SJP, but that 
he should consider taking the pension income from the scheme. 
SJP apologised if this hadnt been clearly communicated to Mr C. And said that it could see 
he was expecting further information. But confirmed that it wasnt possible for Mr C to 
transfer his DB pension into his SJP pension, due to its size. 
SJP said that it wasnt certain this had clearly been explained to Mr C. So said it as a 
gesture of goodwill it would offer to review any subsequent transfer value Mr C decided to 
take against the value of the scheme if the CETV of £51,893.39 been transferred to another 
provider by 9 June 2021, as long as he did so within the next six months. SJP explained that 
it had chosen this date as it felt it wouldve been a reasonable timescale for Mr C to have 
arranged a transfer if hed wanted to do so when the CETV was received in April 2021 and if 
it had been clear that the CETV couldnt be transferred to SJP.SJP also offered Mr C £500 for the distress and inconvenience the complaint had caused 
him, plus a further £150 for the time it had taken it to reply to the complaint. It said the total 
offer of £650 was made as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this response. So he brought his complaint to this service. He said 
he had planned to use the CETV as income for a couple of years. He felt hed been waiting 
for the transfer to be sorted since 2020. And that if it wasnt now possible to transfer his 
CETV to his drawdown pension because it was below £100K, hed have to access more of 
his drawdown fund. Mr C felt that SJP hadnt acknowledged that it had made, and continued 
to make, significant errors in its advice. He wanted it to accept that it had got things wrong. 
He also said that the last three years had been very stressful. So didnt feel that the amount 
offered for distress and inconvenience was enough under the circumstances. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Based on the documentary 
evidence shed seen. she felt that SJP had acted correctly. She also felt that the 
compensation it had offered was more than this service wouldve asked it to offer. Our 
investigator also said that although SJP had offered to carry out a loss assessment based on 
the April 2021 CETV, this service wouldnt have asked it to conduct such an assessment. 
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He said hed been misled by SJP. He felt it owed him 
as a minimum four to five years of back pension from his DB pension. 
Mr C told this service that he had now taken out his DB pension. So we asked him to confirm 
when hed started to take the pension. And the amount of TFC and pension he was 
receiving.
Mr C told this service that he was receiving an annual pension of £3,082.47. This was paid 
monthly in advance on the last day of each month. He didnt state when these payments had 
first started, but the paperwork he shared with this service suggested his pension payments 
had effectively started on 1 April 2023..
Mr C also said he received a TFC lump sum of £8,804.29 on 28 April 2023. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 26 June 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. Although I largely agree with our investigator, I 
consider that Mr C understood that a transfer assessment would be carried out, but one 
wasnt. However, I consider that it was reasonable that SJP didnt carry out such an 
assessment. I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr C. Ill explain the reasons for it.
As our investigator noted, this services role is to identify if a business has made an error 
and if it has, put the consumer back as far as possible into the position they shouldve been 
in if the error hadnt occurred. 
In this case, SJP and Mr C dont agree about what it told him about his DB pension since 
2020. 
This service cant know exactly what SJP told Mr C. And although we take into account the 
testimony thats been provided, we place more weight on the documentary evidence 
available. SJP said it wasnt certain its advice had been clearly communicated to Mr C. It apologised 
for this. And offered him a total of £650 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
had caused him, as a gesture of goodwill. £500 of this was in relation to the complaint issue 
and £150 was in respect of the time itd taken to respond to the complaint. 
SJP also offered to review any subsequent CETV Mr C decided to take against the value of 
the scheme if the 9 April 2021 CETV of £51,893.39 had been transferred to another provider 
by 9 June 2021, as long as he did so within the next six months. 
SJP said it had chosen this date as it felt two months was a reasonable timescale to arrange 
a transfer if Mr C had wanted to do this after receiving the 9 April 2021 CETV if it had been 
made clear to him that he couldnt transfer to SJP.
I first considered if SJP told Mr C it would arrange for his DB pension to be transferred to a 
personal pension.
Did SJP tell Mr C that it would arrange the transfer?
I acknowledge that Mr C discussed transferring his DB pension to a personal pension with 
SJP. I say this because I can see that SJP carried out a fact find in 2018 which noted the 
following:
We further discussed his [name] DB scheme and [name] advised that it would be difficult to 
match these benefits outside of the scheme. He may get an uplift to GMP as a result of the 
Lloyds case. Review in 6 months.
This shows that Mr C talked to SJP about his DB pension at least from 2018. But that its 
advice was not to transfer at that time, but to review again in six months to check if there had 
been an uplift to the pension available to him. It appears that Mr C may have felt that this 
meant that SJP had advised him to transfer, but I consider that the wording clearly states the 
DB transfer would be unlikely to be recommended.
Ive no evidence of any discussions about the potential transfer before this date. 
I can also see that Mr C talked to SJP about his DB pension in 2020. But Ive seen no 
evidence that SJP agreed to the transfer, or that it said it would be suitable for Mr C. Instead, 
SJPs internal emails show that Mr Cs adviser tried to find out if it was even possible to 
transfer Mr Cs DB pension to SJP, given it didnt meet its usual minimum threshold. The 
internal emails show that the adviser had previously advised Mr C to leave his DB pension 
untouched. And that if Mr C insisted on looking into a possible DB transfer, thered be a 
charge for the assessment, which would probably show that a transfer wasnt in his interests. 
But that Mr C had still wanted to see if it was possible. 
SJP agreed to allow the transfer to be considered. But said this didnt guarantee the 
suitability of the transfer, which would need to be appropriately assessed. 
However, shortly after the concession to consider the suitability of the transfer was granted, 
Mr Cs former DB schemes trustees told SJP that it might be possible for him to fully 
commute all of his pension and receive a cash lump sum of around £42K. 
Im of the view that in light of this new information, the adviser didnt then carry out the 
transfer assessment. I think this was reasonable under the circumstances. I say this 
because the full commutation of the DB scheme seemed to meet Mr Cs objectives. And 
because the transfer assessment would cost Mr C money, but be unlikely to result in a 
successful transfer, as SJP had already noted that it would be difficult to match these benefits outside of the scheme.  
I cant see that Mr C ever paid for the transfer assessment. And Mr Cs adviser also said that 
hed done no DB work whatsoever for Mr C. So Im satisfied that no such assessment was 
ever carried out. And, as I have said, I consider that this was reasonable under the 
circumstances. But I also have no evidence that Mr Cs adviser clearly explained this all to 
him. 
Mr Cs adviser looked into the full cash commutation of the DB scheme pension, but it came 
to light that the offer hadnt been correct. However, later that year, Mr Cs former DB 
schemes trustees approved the request for an unreduced early retirement pension on the 
grounds of ill health. 
This was a considerable concession, so Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the adviser to 
assume that Mr C would take the offer, rather than pursue a transfer value. In any event, it 
would now be even less likely  given the enhancement of the pension scheme benefits if Mr 
C took a pension  that the transfer assessment would lead to a recommendation to take the 
CETV.  
I also note that Mr C told this service that he had asked SJP to ask his former DB scheme 
provider to offer him unreduced early retirement within that scheme. So I consider that this 
shows that Mr C was looking into his options. And that he hadnt definitively asked SJP to 
arrange a transfer. 
Therefore I agree with our investigator that theres no documentary evidence that Mr Cs 
pension was ever in the process of transferring from his DB scheme to a personal pension. 
I acknowledge that Mr C considers this shows it mustve been SJPs fault as none of the 
paperwork required for a DB transfer was produced. I can see why he has this view given it 
appears he pushed for a transfer assessment. But Im satisfied that SJP did what it could to 
help Mr C access his DB pension in the most appropriate way for him. 
Ive found no documentary evidence of unclear or misleading information being provided to 
Mr C. Nor have I found any documentary evidence that SJP told Mr C to wait before 
transferring his DB pension. However, Ive also found no evidence that SJP explained to Mr 
C why it hadnt carried out the transfer assessment it appears he requested after gaining a 
concession to do so. 
However, as I noted earlier, SJP has acknowledged that it wasnt certain its advice had been 
clearly communicated to Mr C. It has apologised for this. And offered compensation as I 
outlined above. So I next considered whether I thought this was fair and reasonable under 
the circumstances.
Is SJPs offer fair and reasonable?
Im satisfied that SJP has now clearly explained that it couldnt recommend Mr C to transfer 
his DB pension. And that if he still wanted to do so, he need to seek advice elsewhere.
Our investigator explained in her view why it was reasonable for SJP to take this stance. And 
that the industry regulators stance is that: a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, 
conversion or opt-out will not be suitable, unless it can clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
is in the client's best interests. I agree with her that transferring out of a DB scheme is 
unsuitable for most consumers due to the extremely valuable guarantees they provide. I also 
agree that SJP has the right to set its own terms and can therefore refuse to carry out a DB 
transfer based on the size of that transfer.When Mr C complained to SJP, he said he shouldve just taken the CETV offered in April 
2021. SJP effectively offered to put Mr C in this position when it made its offer to review any 
subsequent transfer Mr C might decide to take. But Mr C has told this service that he has 
now started taking his DB pension from his former scheme. Therefore, in the end, hes 
decided against transferring his DB pension to a personal pension. And its no longer 
possible for SJP to carry out the loss assessment it offered. 
Overall, although Mr Cs adviser didnt carry out a transfer assessment after being given the 
concession to do so in 2020, Im not persuaded that doing so wouldve resulted in advice to 
Mr C to transfer his DB pension. I say this because Mr Cs adviser said that his advice 
wouldnt have been to transfer the DB pension. And because it was extremely unlikely that 
the transfer assessment wouldve shown the transfer to be in Mr Cs best interests. I also 
say this because Mr C didnt in the end transfer his DB pension, despite SJP making him an 
offer which would have effectively provided him with the transfer amount he said he 
shouldve had. 
Therefore I consider that SJPs offer for financial redress was more than fair.
Distress and inconvenience
SJP has offered Mr C £500 compensation as a gesture of goodwill for the distress and 
inconvenience the complaint had caused him. And a further £150 for the time it had taken it 
to reply to the complaint. 
SJP said that it was making this offer as it wasnt certain its advice had been clearly 
communicated to Mr C. It apologised for this. 
Mr C told this service that the last three years had been extremely stressful for him. And that 
the complaint had affected his general mental health. He felt that as the situation had been 
going on for so long, the £650 compensation SJP had offered him wasnt enough.
Im very sorry that Mr C has suffered in this way. But, as Ive noted above, Ive seen no 
documentary evidence that SJP ever told Mr C that his DB pension was in the process of 
being transferred. Therefore Im satisfied that the £650 compensation SJP has offered Mr C 
is more than fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
As Im satisfied that SJPs settlement offer is fair, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
Response to my provisional decision
SJP didnt reply to my provisional decision.
Mr C said he was extremely disappointed with my decision. He felt that SJP had admitted to 
errors and apologised on many occasions. He didnt feel that the £650 hed been offered 
was enough under the circumstances. But said that he now wanted to accept this sum.
Mr C said that the original advisor had offered to sub him a significant amount of money 
given the delays. He felt this would be something I hadnt been told by the original adviser, 
and felt that I wouldnt be able to consider this as he had no written evidence. He felt that I 
was working on the theory: if it's not written down, it didn't happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Cs additional point. Its not the case that we assume something didnt 
happen, just because theres no written evidence. But it is true that without any 
documentation or corroborating evidence, its unlikely that this service will base any decision 
solely on the testimony of either party. In any event, its unlikely my decision would change if 
I had documentary evidence that the original adviser had offered to help Mr C in this way. 
As no new information has come to light to change my opinion, I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman