DRN-4034121
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with TransUnion International UK Limited for not reporting accurate
information on her credit file. Mrs D says this has had financial consequences for her.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision to both parties which set out the background and my 
provisional findings for this complaint. My provisional decision said: 
Around 9 June 2022 Mrs D became aware that her TransUnion credit file was not reporting
accurate information, mostly because there were missing accounts and the electoral roll was
not showing the full number of years she had lived at her address.
Mrs D raised her concerns with TransUnion on a call on 9 June 2022 and in reply to an email
from TransUnion which followed on the same day, Mrs D provided TransUnion with the
personal information they had requested, and details of the accounts that were not showing
on her credit file. Mrs D asked that TransUnion investigate and rectify her credit score, which
at the time was showing as 573  fair.
Also on 9 June 2022 Mrs D sent a separate email to raise a complaint with TransUnion. This
was sent to a different TransUnion email address. TransUnion acknowledged the complaint
on the same day.
On 10 June 2022 TransUnions complaint team emailed Mrs D requesting personal
information from her to investigate the complaint. Mrs D did not respond to this email  and
she has speculated why that may have happened. Mrs D has said she either thought shed
already sent that information on 9 June 2022 or she may have missed the 10 June 2022
email.
On 21 June 2022 Mrs D says she attended a mortgage interview with Lender A as she was
looking to borrow funds for property renovations.
TransUnions complaint department told Mrs D on 21 July 2022 that due to no response to
their email of 10 June 2022, they had closed the complaint.
Mrs D says she followed up with TransUnions complaint department on 21 July 2022 and 31
August 2022, but received no response from TransUnion.
On 31 August 2022 Mrs D attended her second mortgage interview with Lender A. And on 5
September 2022 she learned through her mortgage adviser that the application had been
unsuccessful due to Lender A being unable to electronically verify her identification.
Mrs D called TransUnion, following which on 12 September 2022 TransUnion replied to
Mrs D apologising for their delay in responding to her when she had sent them her concerns
initially. TransUnion confirmed they had now contacted their data team to update Mrs Ds
credit report, although they noted it had not been possible to add one of the accounts Mrs D
had mentioned as it had not been reported to them. TransUnion offered Mrs D £25 for the
annoyance and inconvenience the delay had caused. Mrs D didnt accept the offer.
Lender A issued Mrs D a letter on 14 September 2022 which explained they were unable to
approve the mortgage application, but did not give any details as to why. Mrs D has more
recently obtained an email from her mortgage adviser that the application was declined due
to failing electronic IDVA.
On 12 October 2022 Mrs Ds credit score with TransUnion had increased slightly to 582 
fair. In particular, the credit file now reflected that Mrs D had been registered on the electoral
roll for 15 years, as opposed to less than a year.
Mrs D has recently told us that she re-applied for the mortgage on 14 December 2022  with
her TransUnion credit score being broadly the same as it was on 31 August 2022  and this
time she was successful in her application.
Our Investigator said Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld as they said TransUnion should
have updated Mrs Ds credit file more promptly than they did. The Investigator said
TransUnion should increase their award to reflect the trouble and upset caused, from £25 to
£150. And also said that TransUnion should provide a letter for Mrs D to confirm that her file
was updated in September 2022.
In summary, the Investigator considered Mrs Ds concerns about the financial impact of the
credit file not being up to date, but concluded there was not enough to say that TransUnion
should be held responsible for the credit applications Mrs D was declined for, including the
application with Lender A.
The Investigators reasoning included that TransUnion was not mentioned as the reason for
another lender (Lender B) declining an application; Mrs Ds credit score did not significantly
increase after the corrections were made to her credit file; both parties caused some initial
delays in June and July 2022; Mrs D applied for the mortgage knowing her credit file was
reporting inaccurate information; and it wasnt possible to know that the mortgage application
would have been successful.
TransUnion agreed to the increased payment of £150. But they did not agree to write a letter
for Mrs D confirming what had happened, and they continued to refuse writing such a letter
when our Investigator approached them again about this.
Mrs D disagreed with the Investigators findings. In summary, Mrs Ds main concerns were
the time taken for TransUnion to update her credit file and that TransUnions reporting errors
affected her identification verification for the mortgage application with Lender A, given it
later went ahead successfully even though the score had changed little. Mrs D said the delay
had impacted her financially both in terms of the now higher mortgage interest rates and the
increased costs for carrying out the renovation works. Mrs D was also unhappy that
TransUnion was refusing to provide the letter proposed by the Investigator, and she
maintained that £150 was not enough to recognise the trouble, upset and cost (in terms of
time and work) in trying to sort this matter out.
As a resolution could not be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties should note that while Ive not responded to every point raised, I have reviewedand considered all the submissions made, and my findings focus on what I consider to be at
the heart of this complaint given the evidence and submissions available to me.
Having reviewed the complaint, my conclusions are that Mrs Ds complaint should be
upheld, but as some of my findings differ to those reached by the Investigator, this
provisional decision is to allow both parties the opportunity to provide any further
submissions.
It is not in doubt that TransUnion were not reporting up to date and accurate information
about Mrs Ds credit file, so Ive not looked into the details of this any further as it appears
both parties now accept this has been remedied as far as is reasonably possible.
And while Mrs D did not promptly respond to TransUnions complaint departments email of
10 June 2022, I dont think this takes away that Mrs D had already emailed TransUnions UK
consumer team separately to request that her credit file be investigated and amended. And I
think its fair to say that TransUnion accepts they did not take steps to correct Mrs Ds credit
file as quickly as they should have done.
What is therefore left for me to consider is the extent to which the delay in TransUnion
updating Mrs Ds credit file affected Mrs D. Mrs D made her original request to correct her
credit file on 9 June 2022, and it appears this was not confirmed as actioned until 12
September 2022.
Having reviewed Mrs Ds submissions I can see that she reasonably accepts the difficulty in
being able to demonstrate that TransUnions misreporting directly caused the refusal of
credit with certain credit providers. However, Mrs D still feels strongly that the mortgage
application with Lender A was affected by TransUnions inaction.
Mrs D says this mainly because she was told by her mortgage adviser the reason for the
mortgage being declined was due to Lender A being unable to verify her identity
electronically. And because Mrs Ds concerns were that accounts were not being reported
correctly on her credit file and electoral information was not being reported accurately, she
says this is what led to Lender A declining the application when they couldnt confirm her
identity electronically.
I have given this careful consideration and I think there are a number of factors to consider
here.
I understand Mrs D has said she expected her credit file to be corrected promptly, but
TransUnion would have had 28 days to respond to Mrs D following the queries she raised.
As our Investigator noted, I think it is therefore reasonable to say that Mrs D decided to
initially apply for the mortgage, only a couple of weeks following her request, in the
knowledge that her credit file with TransUnion was being investigated and she had not yet
been told what, if anything, had been updated.
And I can see that the second interview took place when Mrs D wouldve been aware that
things were still not sorted out as she had chased TransUnion on two occasions prior to
attending the second interview. So I think its reasonable to say Mrs D went ahead with the
application in the knowledge there was still a problem with her TransUnion credit file.
That said, when a lender considers a mortgage application there are a number of things that
are taken into account. Credit references form part of a lenders assessment, but lenders
can and do choose to use different credit reference agencies for those checks, and Ive not
seen enough to say that Lender A relied on TransUnion as part of their credit reference
search. I say this as I note from the TransUnion credit report Mrs D has provided (from 7October 2022) that there appears to be no record of a search by Lender A for a mortgage in
2022.
Further, from the submissions available, it appears that at the first time of applying for
borrowing with Lender A, Mrs D owned her own home without a mortgage. It is not clear to
me exactly how Mrs D intended to arrange her borrowing, but there appears to be a
suggestion that Lender A does not offer equity release products.
And while it is not for me in this case to say what Lender A should or should not have done, I
am mindful that a persons identity can often be determined through the provision of
documents if an electronic check is unsuccessful. So I think it would be fair to question why
provision of appropriate documents as an alternative for identification checks was not
considered if that was the only obstacle to Mrs Ds borrowing with Lender A at that time.
I mention these things to illustrate the difficulty in saying that TransUnions delay in raising
and investigating Mrs Ds queries in June 2022 directly caused her application with Lender A
to not go ahead at that time. Ive therefore not seen any evidence to persuade me that
Lender A more likely than not declined the application solely for incorrect information
showing on Mrs Ds TransUnion credit file.
My findings are not to take away the upset and stress this matter has caused Mrs D, as
understandably her financial standing is important to her and that to learn information was
not being reported correctly about her was no doubt upsetting.
It is disappointing that TransUnion did not investigate and action Mrs Ds request from 9
June 2022 straight away. And it is further disappointing that they then failed to communicate
with her about the request, so that it was only due to Mrs D following up the complaint with
them that TransUnion were prompted to take action. As this service is not the regulator, I
cannot fine or punish TransUnion, but I do think TransUnions inaction caused unnecessary
inconvenience and upset. I therefore agree with our Investigators view to increase the
award to £150.
I realise this will not resolve things in the way Mrs D would like, but for the reasons Ive
explained, I do not have enough information to support that Mrs Ds application with Lender
A would have been successful but for TransUnions delay in updating her credit file.
And while Ive taken into account Mrs Ds submissions that an award of £150 does not
reflect the time and effort of sorting out the matter, in the circumstances I think this sum is in
keeping with the awards this service makes. I note our Investigator has already shared with
Mrs D that details of our approach to such awards are available on our website.
Ive also considered the Investigators proposal that TransUnion should write a letter as a
record for Mrs D to have as evidence that the credit file was reporting information about her
incorrectly. While I understand why this is important to Mrs D  and on this occasion setting
aside TransUnions reluctance to provide such a letter  overall, I do not believe such a letter
to be necessary in this case. Mrs D has let our service know she was able to successfully
apply for borrowing in December 2022. And the communications with our service in relation
to this complaint, including this decision, are available to Mrs D as a record if she needs. In
the circumstances I therefore dont think TransUnion need to provide a letter to Mrs D.
My provisional decision
For the reasons above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and
TransUnion International UK Ltd should pay Mrs D £150.Responses to my provisional decision 
TransUnion replied to acknowledge my provisional decision, but offered no further 
comments or submissions. 
Our service chased Mrs D to ensure receipt of the provisional decision, but Mrs D did not 
reply, and she has not responded by the deadline set in my provisional decision to offer any 
further submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In view of the above, as there are no further submissions for me to consider in relation to this 
matter, I see no reason to alter the conclusions reached in my provisional decision as set out 
above. That is, I think TransUnions inaction, when Mrs D first approached them to raise 
concerns about her credit file, caused unnecessary inconvenience and upset so they should 
pay Mrs D £150 to reflect that. But I dont think there is enough in the submissions available 
for me to say that inaccurate information on Mrs Ds TransUnion credit file caused the 
application with Lender A to be declined. And for the reasons given in my provisional 
findings above, I dont think TransUnion need to write a letter for Mrs D. 
Putting things right
TransUnion International UK Ltd should pay Mrs D £150.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mrs Ds complaint is upheld and TransUnion 
International UK Ltd should put things right as Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman