DRN-4449887
The complaint
Mr K and Miss A complain about how Inter Partner Assistance SA handled their claim 
against their travel insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes its agents.    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in February 2022, Mr K and Miss A bought an annual travel 
insurance policy underwritten by IPA. The policy start date was 1 April 2022. In      
August 2022, they booked flights for a family trip with a departure date of 22 July 2023. 
On 30 January 2023, the airline cancelled the departing flights for operational reasons 
and Mr K says that he logged onto IPAs online claims portal and attempted to submit a 
claim but couldnt do so.
On 31 January 2023, Mr K and Miss A booked alternative, replacement flights with 
another provider which departed on 21 July 2023. Those flights were considerably more 
expensive than the cancelled flights which had been booked months earlier. On the 
same day, Mr K phoned IPA about making a claim. Ill refer to that phone conversation in 
more detail below.    
Mr K and Miss A received a credit for the value of their cancelled flights. In          
February 2023, Mr K made an online claim in relation to the increased costs of the 
replacement flights. In April 2023, IPA declined the claim. It said that what happened 
here wasnt covered by the policy. Mr K and Miss A didnt think that was fair and 
complained to IPA.
In response to Mr K and Miss As complaint, IPA maintained its position about the 
declined claim but said that there had been delays in dealing with their claim and poor 
communication. It apologised for that and paid Mr K and Miss A compensation of £100. 
Mr K and Miss A didnt think that was fair and pursued their complaint. 
Mr K and Miss A say that they wouldnt have bought the expensive replacement flights if 
IPA hadnt misled them about their claim in its phone call with Mr K on 31 January 2023. 
They say that during that phone call they were reassured that they had a claim and that 
the flight cancellation was covered by the policy. Mr K and Miss A say that they were put 
to the trouble of finding evidence to substantiate the claim which didnt in fact change the 
outcome. Mr K and Miss A say that Mr K spent a considerable amount of time dealing 
with their claim. They want IPA to settle their claim for increased cost of replacement 
flights, pay the costs of their phone calls and pay compensation in relation to its handling 
of their claim.  
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that IPA was at 
fault in relation to Mr Ks difficulty in making the claim. The investigator said that hed 
listened to the recording of the phone call between Mr K and IPA on 31 January 2023. 
He said that IPA didnt tell Mr K that the claim was accepted or to buy replacement 
flights; it told him that it required more information. The investigator didnt think that IPA 
was at fault in asking for further information. He said that Mr K and Miss As policy 
doesnt cover what happened here. The investigator thought that the compensation of 
£100 IPA had already paid was fair and reasonable in relation to avoidable delays in 
dealing with the claim and poor communication. 
Mr K and Miss A didnt agree with the investigator. Mr K responded to say that he 
decided to buy replacement flights as he needed to incur the additional expense before 
making a claim. He said that IPA clearly suggested that a claim could be submitted. Mr K 
said that he required more compensation in relation to the difficulties he had in 
submitting a claim and IPAs delays. He said that if IPA had told him that his claim would 
be declined, he wouldnt have submitted it. 
The investigator considered what Mr K said but didnt change his view. Mr K and Miss A 
asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont intend to uphold Mr K 
and Miss As complaint and Ill explain why:    
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. 
What happened here  advanced cancellation of flights by the airline for 
operational reasons  isnt covered by the policy, either under the cancellation or 
delayed departure provisions. So, IPA didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining the claim under the terms of the policy. But thats not the end of the 
matter as Ive gone on to consider whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case.
Mr K and Miss A say that during Mr Ks phone call with IPA on 31 January 2023, he 
was reassured that he had a claim as the flight cancellation was covered by the 
policy. Ive listened to the recording of the relevant phone call. I dont think that IPA 
told Mr K that the claim was valid. It asked for more information and told Mr K how 
to make a claim. I think it was entitled to do that. I think it was reasonable for IPA to 
explore at that stage the reason for the cancellation of the flights and to ask for 
documentation about that. 
Mr K and Miss A said initially that they wouldnt have bought the expensive 
replacement flights if IPA hadnt misled them about their claim in its phone call with 
Mr K on 31 January 2023. As Ive said above, I dont agree that Mr K was misled. 
In any event, based on what Ive seen and heard, it appears that Mr K and Miss A 
booked alternative flights before Mr K spoke with IPA. So, I dont think that they 
incurred expenses in reliance on anything IPA told Mr K.
Mr K and Miss A say that Mr K spent a considerable amount of time dealing with 
their claim  the online portal wasnt working properly, he spent a long time on hold 
and their claim wasnt resolved in a timely way. Theres always some inconvenience and expense in making a claim but what Mr K and Miss A describe 
is more than wed expect to see. 
IPA has accepted that there were excessive waiting times on the phone and delay 
in its handling of the claim. Its apologised for that and paid compensation of £100. 
I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint in relation to 
inconvenience and expenses over and above what wed expect to see in making a 
claim, including additional phone costs. In reaching that view, Ive taken into 
account the nature, extent and duration of the inconvenience caused by IPAs 
errors in this case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K and Ms A but there are no grounds on which I can 
fairly direct IPA to settle their claim for additional flight costs and I think that the 
compensation it has already paid in relation to the poor service they received is fair 
and reasonable.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman