DRN-4063928
The complaint
Mrs S complains U K Insurance Limited [UKI] unfairly declined a claim she made on her 
buildings insurance following damage to a wall in the garden of her property. 
What happened
UKI is the underwriter of this policy, i.e. its the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents for which UKI has accepted accountability. Any reference to UKI 
includes the actions of its agents. 
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so I have provided a summary 
here.
Mrs S owns a property insured under a buildings insurance policy underwritten by 
UKI. Mrs S reported to UKI her garden wall had been damaged - she said she 
wanted a fence as a replacement for the wall.
She provided UKI with a photo of the damage together with a quote for the fence and 
her contractors opinion that the damage was as a result of adverse weather. UKI 
accepted the claim under the storm damage peril.
It asked for further information to validate the claim but this took some time so it 
made a settlement offer of £2,500 to replace the damaged section of wall. Mrs S 
didnt think shed be able to get the work done for this figure so asked UKI to instruct 
its own contractor instead.
The contractor attended the property but decided the damage wasnt as a result of 
adverse weather but due to subsidence caused by vegetation. UKI reviewed the 
report and agreed the damage wasnt caused by a storm. It let Mrs S know the claim 
wouldnt be covered as the policy excluded damage caused gradually and 
subsidence claims for walls where the main property wasnt damaged at the same 
time by the same cause.
Mrs S complained and UKI maintained its position but did pay Mrs S £250 for the 
delays in receiving the contractors findings and report. Mrs S remained unhappy and 
raised a complaint with is Service. 
Our Investigator considered all the evidence but, ultimately, she didnt uphold the 
complaint and thought the £250 UKI had already paid was fair in the circumstances. 
So Mrs S asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a policyholder makes a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on them to 
show the claim is covered under the policy terms. When an insurer relies on an 
exclusion or policy condition to decline a claim, the onus is on it to show the 
exclusion applies. Ill be reviewing this complaint in the light of this principle, while 
keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
UKI has declined the claim and said the following exclusion and policy condition 
apply:
This policy doesnt cover
oAny damage caused gradually 
Your buildings are covered for loss or damage caused by
 Subsidence or heave of the site on which your home stands or landslip
This includes cover for:

ooutdoor swimming poolsgarden walls, gates or fences  but only if 
your home is damaged at the same time by the same cause.
So Ive considered the evidence to see whether I think UKI has declined the claim 
fairly and in line with these policy terms. 
Mrs S declined UKIs settlement offer and asked it to appoint contractors to 
undertake the remedial work. The contractors undertook a site inspection and 
concluded the wall had been damaged by subsidence, not by a one-off storm event. 
Having carefully considered the report and accompanying photographic evidence, Im 
persuaded by these conclusions. 
Subsidence by its nature, happens gradually so Im satisfied UKI has acted fairly 
when it said the exclusion detailed above applies.
Additionally, Ive not seen anything to indicate Mrs Ss home was experiencing 
subsidence - and as the policy only covers damage to garden walls where the home 
experiences subsidence at the same time and by the same cause - Im satisfied 
theres no cover for the damaged wall under the above policy terms.
I acknowledge UKI initially made a settlement offer to Mrs S, based on the 
information it had available at the time. Its not unusual or unreasonable for an 
insurer to ask for additional information when validating a claim or to reassess its 
approach to settling the claim when an investigation reveals a different cause than 
the one that was first assumed.
While I acknowledge this change in position would have been disappointing for 
Mrs S, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to direct UKI to pay the claim because of this. 
Its clear  based on the evidence Ive seen - the cause of the damage isnt an 
insured peril and is excluded under the policy terms. So, Im satisfied UKI acted fairly 
and in line with the policy terms when it declined the claim.
That said, I think UKI should have advised Mrs S of its change in position more 
quickly than the six or so weeks it took due to delays with its contractor. And it 
generally could have handled this claim much better than it did. It has accepted this, 
apologised and paid Mrs S £250. Taking everything into account, I think this amount 
fairly reflects the inconvenience its poor handling and delays caused Mrs S. I acknowledge Mrs S doesnt agree, but Im satisfied its fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So, I wont be asking UKI to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman