DRN-3226306
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unreasonably refused to consider his claim 
and then cancelled his pet policy as it had never existed.
What happened
Mr T bought his life time pet policy for his dog online on 31 May 2021. On 14 June 2021 Mr 
T made a pre-authorisation claim due the fact his dog had cracked a tooth. 
Allianz investigated the claim and saw that Mr T had told his vet that his dog was a working 
dog. Evidence also showed Mr T involved his dog in KNVP which he said was a hobby. 
Allianz said this trains dogs to attack.
On this basis Allianz said there was no cover in this policy for working dogs and dogs used 
for guarding so it refused Mr Ts claim. It was also of the view that Mr T misrepresented the 
facts on his application form and on that basis, it cancelled his policy as it never existed 
(voided) and returned the premium paid.
Mr T complained but Allianz wouldnt change its stance, so he brought his complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt think Allianz had done anything wrong. Mr T disagreed so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
My role is to assess whether Allianz did anything wrong given the terms and conditions of 
the policy. 
In the application form on line, Mr T was to indicate if any of the following applied to his dog:
Your dog 
has not attacked, bitten or been aggressive towards another person or 
animal, been in fights or shown aggressive tendencies
is not a guard, used for security purposes or connected in any with a trade, 
occupation or business
does not live in a premises which sells alcohol
is not taken to work with you or anyone else.
Mr T didnt indicate that any of these applied to his dog. However, in the vet history, the vet 
clearly states that Mr T told the vet the following:
History - # to R upper canine - 104. [name of dog] is a working dog and so will 
require tooth for work. O would like titanium capping. CM to refer for this.
Pet insurers including Allianz are fully entitled to rely on whats written in the vet history as 
vets are fully aware of their duties in ensuring accurate vet histories on the animals in their 
care. Its part of their professional undertakings. If there is any dispute about what is written 
in the vet history thats a matter between Mr T and his vet, but it doesnt concern Allianz and 
doesnt form part of this complaint.
During Allianz investigation, it discovered that Mr Ts dog was trained under KNVP 
principles which trains the dog to attack people, rather like how police dogs are trained. 
Furthermore, the policy clearly states the following under the general exclusions section:
1. There is no cover under this policy if:

b) Your dog is used for security, guarding, track racing or coursing. 
So, on the basis the vet history details Mr T said his dog was a working dog, and moreover 
needed his tooth capped for work, its clear Mr T misrepresented the position on his 
application. 
The law covering what an insurer can and cant do in this situation is called the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This Act provides that 
consumers have a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to an 
insurer. If that happens as it has with Mr T, the Act permits Allianz with some remedies, 
providing the misrepresentation is a qualifying one. And it is a qualifying one because if Mr T 
had told Allianz his dog was a working dog, needing his tooth for work and was trained to 
attack, Allianz confirmed it would have never offered Mr T this policy. 
Allianz told us that if Mr T had said from the outset, he had a working dog, it would have 
referred to its working dog guidelines and given his dog was trained to attack in guarding, it 
would have declined to offer him any policy at all.
Therefore, Allianz did nothing wrong in voiding this policy and returning the premium paid 
back to Mr T as it both followed the law on misrepresentations and adhered to its own 
underwriting guide in declining to consider his claim and cancelling his policy. This also 
means it would have treated anyone else the same as Mr T in the same circumstances, 
which further means Mr T was not singled out or treated differently.
It doesnt matter what Mr T thinks the definition of a working dog is too, because it was 
written as such in in the vet history and Allianz are fully entitled to rely on that. Further the 
evidence Allianz from Mr Ts social media shows his dog attacking in a training environment.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman