DRN-2398714
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) didnt properly define an exclusion 
clause when it declined his claim under a home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr G contacted Aviva as he had a blocked waste pipe. Aviva attended cleared the blockage 
and left the drain in good working order. It also told Mr G that there was a build-up of calcium 
in the waste pipe that could cause the waste pipe to block.
Mr G reported another blockage in the waste pipe. Aviva attended but it said it didnt find a 
blockage. Mr G wanted Aviva to clear the calcium build-up, but it declined to do so as it said 
that this wasnt covered under the policy, as it was deemed a maintenance issue. 
Mr G raised a complaint to Aviva. In its final response, Aviva told Mr G that the calcium build-
up wasnt an emergency as it had been happening over a period of time and it relied on the 
exclusion clause of the policy which said that normal day-to-day maintenance was not 
covered. 
Mr G referred a complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the 
claim was down to a maintenance issue which wasnt covered.  He also said that Aviva had 
done what it was supposed to have done, which was to unblock the drain. Mr G wasnt 
satisfied, so he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
Mr G accepts that the build-up in the waste pipe could be deemed to be a maintenance 
issue. But he was unhappy that there was no definition in the policy of what Aviva meant by 
normal day to day maintenance  which is a general exclusion. And he wants Aviva to tell 
him how he should carry out day to day maintenance on a pipe that he could not see or be 
reasonably expected to know that a build-up was happening. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr G, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr G had a home emergency policy with an excess with Aviva which provided cover for 
plumbing and drainage issues. He experienced a blockage in a waste pipe and contacted 
Aviva who sent an engineer to unblock the pipe. The engineer advised Mr G that there was a 
build-up of calcium, which was causing the pipe to block. Aviva told Mr G that the build-up 
wouldnt be covered as this amounted to a maintenance issue. It relied on the terms and 
conditions of the policy and in particular the exclusion clause which said: What is not 
coverednormal day-to-day maintenance of the items covered by your policy 
The main issue here is whether it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the exclusion clause. 
Both parties agree that there was a build-up of calcium within the waste pipe and that this 
caused the pipe to become blocked. Both parties also agree that the calcium build-up 
happened gradually. 
Under the terms of the policy, Aviva unblocked the pipe as it was required to resolve the 
immediate emergency - which was the blockage. And it said that if there were any further 
blockages (not caused by the calcium) it would unblock the pipe again. So, I think that Aviva 
acted as it should have done as it wouldve covered the claim where there was sudden 
damage or loss of function (such as the blocked pipe). 
Also, Aviva told Mr G that there was a problem about the calcium build up, when the pipe 
was unblocked. So, if the pipe blocked again, I think that this would no longer be 
unforeseeable because Aviva had already warned Mr G about the presence of calcium. 
Which consequently would mean that any subsequent blockages (if due to the calcium build 
up) wouldnt fall under the definition of a home emergency, so they wouldnt be covered. 
I agree with Mr G that theres no reason why hed have known about the calcium build up 
before Aviva told him about it. I also agree that removing calcium thats building up in an 
underground pipe isnt what most people would consider to be day to day maintenance. But 
Im not sure that that matters here. Now as Aviva has told Mr G about the calcium build-up, I 
think it falls on him to have that rectified (if he wants to)  for example by calling in a 
specialist to remove it.
Further, the normal day to day maintenance term is an exclusion and its ordinary meaning 
is what Aviva has said it defines this as. Therefore, as an exclusion, it only becomes 
potentially relevant when its been shown that an insured event has actually happened. In 
this case, following the removal of the first blockage, there hasnt been a subsequent home 
emergency (as defined by the policy). So, the policy exclusions arent applicable, provided 
the blockage isnt caused by the calcium build-up.
Overall, I think Aviva has dealt with Mr Gs claim fairly and Im satisfied that Aviva did what I 
wouldve expected it to have done. So, I cant reasonably ask Aviva to do anything further to 
resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman