DRN-3909303
The complaint
Ms R complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund to her the money that she paid for a 
bed and mattress.
What happened
Ive issued provisional decisions on this complaint in which I described what had happened 
as follows:
Ms R made a payment of £728.66 from her account with Starling Bank in March 
2021 to a retailer for a bed and mattress. There was some damage to the bed and 
the retailer paid £40 compensation to Ms R. Ms R then complained about some 
issues with the mattress. She said that it had a rip in it and it was dipping. The retailer 
arranged for the mattress to be inspected and concluded that there was a fault with 
the mattress. It said that its supplier didnt believe that there was a manufacturing 
defect but had agreed to provide a refund of the mattress and bed frame.
Ms R didnt receive a refund from the supplier so she contacted Starling Bank. It said 
that it had claimed a chargeback from the retailer but it had contested it as it had 
provided a partial refund, inspected the bed and mattress and offered further options. 
Ms R wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said 
that it was the supplier that had agreed to provide the refund and its not for Starling 
Bank to pursue the supplier and Ms R would need to dispute it with the supplier 
directly. She was satisfied that Starling Bank had done everything that it was required 
to do.
Ms R has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that the £40 refund was for damage to a wood panel but the bed was 
broken and bent which had nothing to do with the wooden frame and shes not been 
sent a replacement or a refund. She also says that she doesnt know who the 
supplier is and has had no contact with it".
I set out my provisional findings in my provisional decisions which were as follows:
The retailer sold a bed and mattress to Ms R. There was some damage to the bed 
and the retailer paid her £40 compensation. Ms R then complained about some 
issues with the mattress and the retailer arranged for the mattress to be inspected. It 
then said that it had concluded that there was a fault with the mattress. It said that its 
supplier didnt believe that there was a manufacturing defect but had agreed to 
provide a refund of the mattress and bed frame.
Ms R didnt receive that refund so she complained to Starling Bank. If a consumer 
disputes a payment, the bank may be able to make a chargeback claim to the retailer 
to try to settle the dispute. Theres no right for a consumer to require that a 
chargeback claim be made, but if the right to make a chargeback claim exists under 
the applicable scheme rules - and if theres a reasonable prospect of success  I 
consider it to be good practice fora chargeback claim to be made.
Starling Bank said that it had claimed a chargeback from the retailer but it had 
contested it as it had provided a partial refund, inspected the bed and mattress and 
offered further options - but Ms R says that shes not received the refund that she 
was offered and nor have the bed and mattress been replaced.
Although the retailer has contested the chargeback, it has accepted that theres a 
fault with the mattress and that the supplier would provide a refund of the mattress 
and bed frame to Ms R. Ms R hasnt received that refund and has no relationship 
with the supplier so I dont consider that its reasonable to expect her to contact the 
supplier about a refund.
Nor do I consider that it was reasonable for the retailer to dispute the chargeback. 
The partial refund related to damage to the wooden frame and after it had arranged 
for an inspection to take place it concluded there was a fault with the mattress. 
Starling Bank said that the retailer had offered further options to Ms R- but those 
options were a refund that she didnt receive.
I consider that it would be reasonable to expect Starling Bank to have done more to 
progress Ms Rs chargeback claim in these circumstances. I consider that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Ms R to have received the refund that the retailer told her 
would be made to her by the supplier. As that hasnt happened, I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Starling Bank to refund to Ms R the £728.66 that she paid for 
the bed and mattress, with interest.
I also said: Ms R says that Starling Bank has recorded adverse information on her credit file 
and shes provided evidence of a default being recorded on her credit file in January 2022. I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it to remove any adverse information that its 
recorded on her credit file which relates to, or has been caused by, the £728.66 not being 
refunded to her account. These events have clearly caused Ms R some distress and 
inconvenience and I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Starling Bank to pay 
her £200 to compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further representations by Ms R or Starling Bank, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint. Starling Bank says, in summary, that:
the retailer inspected the bed and concluded that there was no damage to the 
mattress  it was merely dipping due to the bowing of the bed frame caused by 
Ms Rs use of it and the overstrain that had been put on the frame;
the retailer offered a solution of reinforcement and monetary compensation;
the retailer indicated that the supplier, whilst confirming there were no 
manufacturing faults or damage to the item, was willing as a gesture of goodwill 
to refund Ms R;
theres no admission of fault aside from an incorrectly worded email from the 
retailer and the refund hasnt been offered due to defective manufacturing but 
only as a gesture of goodwill and the offer is, as far as its aware, still an option 
for Ms R;
Ms R says that she understands that the mattress doesn't have issues but it was 
damaged on arrival, is extremely high for the bed and isnt of good quality; 
the retailer confirmed that the damage was a cut that appeared to have been 
caused during unpacking and the mattress being too high for the bed or of a perceived low quality is mere speculation; and
Ms R has a history of disputing payments and her account is being closed  but 
its in arrears which need to be cleared before it can be closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded that I should change the outcome that was set out in my 
second provisional decision. 
Whether or not there was a fault with the bed and/or mattress, the supplier had agreed to 
provide a refund of the money that Ms R had paid for the bed and mattress. That offer was 
made by the supplier to the retailer and Ive seen no evidence to show that Ms R has had 
any dealings with the supplier. I consider that it would be reasonable to expect the retailer to 
have arranged for the £728.66 to be refunded to Ms R. 
No refund was received by Ms R so she contacted Starling Bank and it claimed a 
chargeback from the retailer. The chargeback was defended by the retailer but I dont 
consider that it was fair or reasonable for the retailer to have defended the chargeback. I 
consider that it should have either made the refund to Ms R at that time or arranged for the 
supplier to make the refund to her. 
I consider that Starling Bank should have done more to assist Ms R in these circumstances 
and, had it done so, I consider it to be more likely than not that she would have received the 
refund that she was expecting to receive. For that reason I consider that Ms Rs complaint 
should be upheld. Im not persuaded that Ms Rs history of disputing payments or the status 
of her account is enough to show that the actions that Ive said that Starling Bank should 
take are unfair or unreasonable.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Starling Bank to take 
the actions described in my second provisional decision, and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint and I order Starling Bank Limited to:
1. Refund £728.66 to Ms Rs account.
2. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
3. Remove any adverse information that its recorded on Ms Rs credit file which relates 
to, or has been caused by, the £728.66 not being refunded to her account.
4. Pay £200 to Ms R to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Starling Bank to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Starling Bank must give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if she asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman