DRN-3801969
The complaint
Mr C and Miss G have complained about delays by AWP P&C SA in dealing with a claim 
they made for cancelled flights.
What happened
In spring 2022, Mr C and Miss G booked flights for a holiday in April.  Unfortunately, they 
had to cancel the holiday.  The cost of the flights was non-refundable.  So they submitted a 
claim for the cost to AWP.
Mr C says he received an acknowledgement of the claim.  But since then hes not heard 
anything from AWP to update him on its progress.  Nor have AWP responded to the 
complaint he sent them in the middle of May.  So he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator contacted AWP to request their business file.  AWP havent responded.  So 
the investigation based his conclusions on the information provided by Mr C and Miss G.
The investigator noted AWP has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly.  Hed not seen 
any evidence that the delays in the claim were unavoidable.  And he noted that 
correspondence chasing the matter up hadnt been responded to.  This had inconvenienced 
Mr C and Miss G.  The investigator said AWP should pay them £150 compensation for that 
inconvenience.
Mr C and Miss G agreed with the investigators view.  AWP havent responded.  So Ive been 
asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Cs and Miss Gs complaint.  Ill explain why.
As AWP didnt respond to the investigators view, I have  like him  had to base my 
decision on what Mr C has told us on behalf of Miss G and himself.
The Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook of the FCA Handbook (ICOBS) sets the 
standards insurers should meet.  ICOBS 8.1.1 says insurers must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress.
Based on the information Mr C and Miss G have provided, I dont think AWP have done that.  
The claim was submitted in March  now eight months ago.  I this its reasonable either for it 
to have been determined by now, or for Mr C and Miss G to have received an explanation of 
why thats not possible.  And I dont think thats a fair way for AWP to have dealt with their 
claim.
Putting things right
Mr C and Miss G told us they wanted AWP to pay the claim.  I cant direct AWP to do that, 
because theyre entitled to investigate and make a decide whether or not to accept or reject 
the claim.  But Id expect them to do that now, or to explain to Mr C and Miss G why that 
consideration will be further delayed.
But I do agree with our investigator Mr C and Miss G have clearly been inconvenienced by 
the delay and lack of communication that caused them to bring their complaint to us.  And I 
agree £150 is a reasonable sum for AWP to recognise that inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs and Miss Gs complaint about AWP 
P&C SA and directing AWP to pay them £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman