DRN-3520325
The complaint
The complaint has been brought by a company, K. Any reference to K includes submissions 
made on its behalf by its director, Mr D. 
K complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim for rent protection under 
its landlord protection insurance policy. Any reference to Amtrust includes the actions of its 
agents.
What happened
K, a property management agency, has a landlord protection policy which provides 
legal expenses and rent protection cover. The policy is underwritten by Amtrust. 
The policy started on 1 December 2020. 
In July 2021, K contacted Amtrust to make a claim for rent arrears under the policy. 
Amtrust declined the claim. It said the tenant had been in arrears since the start of 
the policy and so a claim hadnt been made within 45 days of the rent arrears 
occurring  which is a condition of the policy. It said its position had been prejudiced 
as a result.
K disagreed. It said that as the tenant was a council tenant, rent was always paid in 
arrears and so, the tenant wasnt in arrears at the start of the policy. K said the policy 
wasnt fit for purpose. 
Amtrust didnt change its position but said it would provide cover to enable K to gain 
vacant possession of the property. 
K remained unhappy and so brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Amtrust had treated K fairly. She was satisfied the tenant 
had been in arrears from the start of the policy. 
She considered Ks argument that council tenants pay rent in arrears but wasnt 
persuaded by it as despite this, evidence showed the tenant was in arrears in March 
and April 2021. And as a claim wasnt logged until July 2021, K had brought the 
complaint outside 45 days.
K disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy document which forms the basis of K and Amtrusts contract. 
Under Rent Protection  What is insured it says: 
You are covered for Rent owed by a Tenant [] under a Tenancy Agreement in 
relation to the Insured Property up to the Maximum Amount Payable, where the 
Insured Event occurs during the Period of Insurance and You, where appropriate, are 
pursuing a claim against the Tenant to evict them from the Insured Property.
Under What is not insured it says, Claims where any of the relevant terms and conditions 
have not been met by you. And one of the conditions is that: 
You must report claims as soon as possible within 45 days of the Insured Event, by 
completing and submitting the claim form with all relevant information.
This is reiterated under the general exclusions section. So, Im satisfied the policy made it 
clear that claims had to be made within the 45-day timeframe. The issue here is that K and 
Amtrust dispute when the Insured event was. 
The policy defines Insured event as:
The incident or the start of a transaction or series of incidents which may lead to a 
claim or claims being made under the terms of the insurance.
Of importance is that this definition doesnt require K to have known the series of incidents  
which in this case is the rent arrears - would definitely lead to a claim, rather that they may. 
Ive looked at the information provided, and from what I can see the tenant was in arrears 
from the start of the tenancy. Although some payments were made, the arrears werent 
covered in full and so arrears remained throughout the period. By June 2021, there had 
been two consecutive months of non-payment of rent. 
So, Im more persuaded the information shows an ongoing issue with the tenant paying rent 
in full and on time  and that this can be traced back to the start of the tenancy agreement. 
As such, Im satisfied it was reasonable for K to have realised when the tenant was first in 
arrears that this might give rise to a claim for rent protection. 
Whilst I dont agree with how K has calculated the tenants arrears; based on their workings 
out as set out in the statement of accounts document  K seems to have accepted that the 
tenant was in arrears in May 2021. But even based on this date, K still wouldnt have 
referred the claim to Amtrust in time. 
K argues that the law allows tenants to be up eight weeks in arrears before legal action can 
be taken and so, it wouldnt have been able to take action against the tenant as early as 
Amtrust has suggested  namely by 14 January 2021 (when the tenant would have been 45 
days in arrears). But whats key here is that the policy requires the insured to report a claim 
to the insurer within 45 days of the insured event, not that legal action must commence 
within 45 days. So, while I acknowledge Ks point, it doesnt change my decision on the 
matter. 
One of Ks points is that the policy wasnt fit for purpose and that it had been mis-sold 
because it didnt cover situations where the tenant is a council tenant. However, because 
this issue relates to the sale of the policy  these concerns would need to be directed to the 
seller of the policy in the first instance. So, I wont be addressing this concern as part of this 
complaint.Amtrust has said it would continue to provide cover for the legal costs to gain possession of 
the property. Ill leave it up to K to decide what it wants to do next in respect to this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman